
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 87, Issue 4, pages 303-385. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:87+issue:4+year:1991&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Against All Adversities: The Pioneer Printers of 
                        Brookville
                    , Indiana
            Fredric Brewer∗
            
            They were fiercely independent craftsmen. They were gamblers, playing great odds against all the
                    elements that seemingly conspired against their trade—shaky economics, contrary weather,
                    limited and at times nonexistent supplies, transient help, and oppressive working conditions. Yet
                    their industriousness persevered. They were the newspaper publishers and printers who
                    "wested" when the American frontier reached across the Alleghenies and the
                    Cumberlands to stretch into the dark forests and loping prairies of the middle lands. Despite
                    hardships that plagued their makeshift printing offices, they knew there was civic importance to
                    their labors. Their rickety machines turned out the endless forms needed to maintain records of
                    legal, constabulary, land, and business transactions. But more importantly, the newspapers they
                    printed kept their readers in touch with their distant government and the world. Never more than
                    four pages in length and sometimes only two, the pioneer weekly newspaper was a platform for
                    opinions, an alert to the goods and services available in an isolated settlement, a caution about
                    shady schemes and the perils of intemperance and immorality, and an organ for intellectual
                    reflection and even amusement.
            The newspaper history of the American frontier is littered with the skeletons of failures. Yet that
                    history is continuous as well, for although many an early publisher was restless, eager to establish
                    a more stable and profitable foothold for his press, his failure almost always offered a challenge
                    for still another newspaper. And because of that challenge, the frontier printer prevailed.
            
               
                  ∗ Fredric Brewer, a native of 
                            Huntington County
                        , taught mass communications at Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        , for twenty-five years. He retired in 1989. Research for this article was done at
                        the Indiana University Lilly Library, 
                            Bloomington
                        ; the Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; the Library of Congress; and at libraries, historical societies, and government
                        offices of the various communities mentioned in the text and notes. He thanks the numerous
                        people who assisted him.
            
            
            The early newspapers of 
                        Brookville
                    , Indiana, governmental seat of 
                        Franklin County
                    ,1 were typical of the period. 
                        Brookville
                     was one of six Indiana settlements that had printing offices with their attendant
                    newspapers prior to Indiana's transition from territorial status to statehood on December
                    11, 1816, but 
                        Brookville
                     was ideally located during the early 1820s as the principal eastern gateway to
                    Indiana's interior, the "New Purchase" of 1818.2 Yet
                    even before the New Purchase, the end, in 1815, of the War of 1812 had ignited a great western surge
                    of emigration. By the summer of 1816, land and river routes to Indiana were crowded with traffic.3
                    
                        Franklin County
                     was to benefit from the emigration, and its growth made it a magnet for a printing
                        press.4 As one mid-nineteenth-century commentator noted, "The
                    agriculturalist hardly gets comfortably located in a new country when he is joined by the printer,
                    with press and types, who comes to direct his politics, and keep him posted up on all subjects of
                    ‘intelligence, forraigne and domestick.’"5
            
            It is not unlikely that some effort was made in 
                        Brookville
                     to attract a printer, because such attempts were not unusual. William Henry Harrison,
                    Indiana's first territorial governor, wrote Secretary of State James Madison in November,
                    1803, for permission to employ a printer. Five or six months later, Elihu Stout arrived in 
                        Vincennes
                     with press, type, paper, and the enthusiasm of a twenty-two-year-old.6 In 1816, John Francis Dufour, the founder of 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana, paid off a two hundred dollar lien on a press and type to bring their
                    financially strapped owner, William Keen, to 
                        Switzerland County
                     from 
                  Hamilton, Ohio
               , to establish the Indiana Register.
               7 The most likely person to tout 
                        Franklin County
                    's attractions to a roving printer was Bethuel F. Morris
                    (1792–1864), a resettled 
                  
                     1
                            
                                Brookville
                             was platted in August, 1808. 
                                Franklin County
                             was formed on January 1, 1811, from parts of Dearborn and Clark counties. See
                            George Pence and Nellie C. Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries: Territory, State, and
                                County (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XIX; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1933), 354–63.
                  
                     2 See James Albert Woodburn, "Local Life and Color in the New
                            Purchase," Indiana Magazine of History, IX (December, 1913), 216;
                            James Albert Woodburn, The New Purchase (Indiana Historical Society
                                Publications, Vol. VI, No. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1919), 44.
                  
                     3 Waldo F. Mitchell, "Indiana's Growth,
                            1812–1820," Indiana Magazine of History, X (December,
                            1914), 369–95.
                  
                     4 A census taken in 1815 reported 
                                Franklin County
                            's population at 7,370. By 1819, 
                                Brookville
                             alone had a population of approximately 650. The 1820 federal census of the
                            county tabulated 10,751 whites and 73 blacks. See August L. Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915), 80; letter signed "Looker-On" in 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer and Indiana Intelligencer, April 2, 1819; 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer, November 7, 1820.
                  
                     5 Joel Munsell, The Typographical Miscellany
                                    (
                        Albany, N.Y.
                     , 1850), 146.
                  
                     6 Douglas C. McMurtrie, "The Need of a Printer in Indiana
                            Territory," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXII (March, 1936),
                            34–37.
                  
                     7 Perret Dufour, The Swiss Settlement of 
                                    Switzerland County
                                , Indiana (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XIII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1925), 55.
               
                     Pennsylvanian, lawyer, and businessman. Morris would become 
                        Brookville
                    's first newspaper editor.
            The nearest place to look for a printer was 
                        Cincinnati
                    , then the West's most bustling community.8 The town was
                    also where printing offices opened, languished, and changed hands or closed so rapidly that printers
                    probably needed little encouragement to resettle where competition was either minimal or
                    nonexistent. The fact that 
                        Brookville
                     was a county seat would also have been a strong selling point. Some time before
                    October, 1816, 
                        Franklin County
                    's first printers—Benjamin Ogle, Jr., and John
                    Scott—arrived in 
                        Brookville
                    , likely accompanied by one or two wagonloads of printing equipment.
            Nothing is known about Ogle. A Revolutionary War veteran named Benjamin Ogle, who
                    "wested" to become an Indian fighter, was living in 
                        Illinois
                     Territory at the time the printer Ogle arrived in 
                        Brookville
                    , but whether the printer was his offspring is questionable.9 John
                    Scott was born in 1793 in 
                  Cumberland County, Pennsylvania
               , where he may have learned his
                    trade in 
                        Carlisle
                    , the county seat. Eventually he and printer Alexander Magee founded a printing office.
                    At the time, though, at least four, possibly five, printing establishments, each of which published
                    a weekly gazette, were active in 
                        Carlisle
                    . The new office soon closed. With his wife Jane and infant son James, Scott set off for
                    the West, perhaps accompanied by printing equipment he may have accumulated.10
            
            In any case, 
                        Brookville
                    's printing office was quickly set up for business for progress produced a
                    pressing need for products only a printer could render, including "Books, Pamphlets,
                    Handbills, Cards, Hatbills, Saddlebills, Duebills, Checks, and Blanks of all kinds."11 Blanks were forms such as property deeds, writs of replevin, sheriff
                    warrants, and other official forms required for civic 
                  
                     8 By 1816, one 
                                Cincinnati
                             newspaper editor lamented that the town had become so civilized that
                            "twenty sermons a week—Sunday evening Discourses on
                            Theory—Private assemblies—state Cotillion parties—Saturday
                            Night Clubs, and chemical lectures … like the fever and ague, return every day
                            with distressing regularity." 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Liberty Hall, December 9, 1816, quoted in Richard C. Wade, "Urban
                            Life in Western America, 1790–1830," American Historical
                                Review, LXIV (October, 1958), 25.
                  
                     9 The 
                                Illinois
                             Ogle was a Court of Common Pleas judge in 
                                St. Clair County
                             when it was part of Indiana Territory. See Francis S. Philbrick, ed., The Laws of Indiana Territory, 1801–1809 (Collections of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Library, Vol. XXI; 
                                Springfield
                            , 1930), cclix, ccxxix.
                  
                     10 In addition to printer, Scott may also have been an
                            "exhorter," a layman authorized by Methodists to hold religious meetings
                            and perform evangelistic duties. If so, he was probably welcomed wherever he tarried in his
                            westward journey, able to provide frontier hamlets with spiritual and secular communication
                            in exchange for a roof and food. See John Scott, The Indiana Gazetteer or
                                Topographical Dictionary (1826; reprint, Indiana Historical Society
                                Publications, Vol. XVIII, No. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1954), 7.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph, February 19, 1819.
               
                     and court business. Furthermore, "gentlemen, who
                    desire it," could have "INVITATION CARDS or other fancy work, PRINTED IN EITHER
                    RED, BLACK, OR BLUE INK."12 Printers were also called on to print
                    invitations to funerals, a service one Indiana pioneer found "a senseless custom of no
                    manner of use except to put dollars in the pockets of printers."13
                    Frontier politicians especially were not mindless of the value of a printing press; besides stump
                    speeches at the April and October musters of the militia, Fourth of July celebrations, and the
                    collaring of town and country folk during breaks in circuit court proceedings, the politician relied
                    on small announcements of candidacy in the newspapers and on handbills, which were extensively used
                    in pioneer Indiana.14 Although the printing of blanks, funeral invitations,
                    horsebills and the like—called "job work"—brought ready
                    money into the printing office,15 a printer's most important service
                    was the weekly newspaper.
            Yet printers were constantly at the edge of economic disaster and were beset with seemingly endless
                    frustrations compounded by the miles between them and the sources of their supplies. In addition to
                    the printer as businessman, one also had to be skilled in the range of technical concerns that
                    printing entailed.
            The printing press used in early 
                        Brookville
                     was probably a Ramage, named for Adam Ramage (1772?–1850), a Scot, who
                    emigrated to America in 1795 to settle in 
                        Philadelphia
                     where he began manufacturing presses about 1805. For thirty years, Ramages were the
                    standard equipment in America's country printing offices, popular because of their
                    economical price (between $130 and $150), transportability, and ease of
                    repair. They were the ideal machine for the migrating printer.16
            
            
               
                  12
                        
                            Brookville
                        
                        Plain Dealer, November 5, 12, 1816.
               
                  13 Quotation from the Will of John Badollet (1758–1837). He
                        emphatically requested that no "tickets" be issued to his funeral. Gayle
                        Thornbrough, ed., The Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert Gallatin,
                        1804–1836 (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XXII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1963), 21–22.
               
                  14 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (2 vols., 1915,
                        1918; reprint ed. 2 vols. in 1, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1970), I, 189; Thomas D. Clark, The Rampaging Frontier: Manners and
                            Humors of Pioneer Days in the South and the Middle West (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1939), 267; Leander J. Monks, Logan Esarey, and Ernest V. Shockley, Courts and Lawyers of Indiana (3 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916), I, 121. Some early Indiana weeklies demanded payment, from fifty cents to a
                        dollar, for announcing candidacies. For example, see 
                            Salem
                        
                        Indiana Farmer, July 25, 1823.
               
                  15 One 
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana, printer frankly explained why he failed to print an issue of the Public Leger: "Last week we were so thronged with job work, as to
                        render it necessary to neglect either the paper or the other work. As the jobs were paid for in
                        cash …." 
                            Richmond
                        
                        Public Leger, October 15, 1825.
               
                  16 Milton W. Hamilton, Adam Ramage and His Presses
                                (
                     Portland, Maine
                  , 1942); James M. Wells, "American
                        Printing: The Search for Self-Sufficiency," Proceedings of the American
                            Antiquarian Society, XCIV (1985), 277; Elizabeth Harris, "Press-builders in 
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1776–1850," Printing History, XI (1989),
                        11–24. Wood Ramages were constructed in several sizes, from a small proving press
                        that stood on a table to larger sizes for newspaper and book printing. Ramage did not begin
                        building iron presses until the 1830s.
            
            
            Generally, two printers operated the press, taking turns in their functions.17
                    One printer was the "beater," whose task was to ink the type. To do so, he slicked
                    ink on a pair of leather balls stuffed with horsehair or wool and attached to short wood handles,
                    and then "beat" the balls four or five times on the type. Meantime, the other
                    printer—the "puller"—loaded the paper, dampened so ink would
                    take to it, and prepared to make a pull. An apprentice, often called a "fly boy,"
                    stood by to receive the printed sheets and hand over fresh sheets, hence his sobriquet. From all
                    three, speed, coordination, quick reflexes, and skilled hand movements were required.18
            
            The Ramage used for newspaper work was a "two pull" machine, the bed long and wide
                    enough to hold forms for two newspaper pages, thus requiring two impressions to print one side of a
                    newspaper-size sheet or four impressions altogether for a four-page newspaper. The usual page size
                    of 
                        Brookville
                     newspapers was approximately 12½ by 20 inches,19
                    although page size obviously depended on the press's dimensions. The bed of the 
                        Brookville
                     press accommodated not only the forms for two newspaper pages but, of course, smaller
                    forms, such as one for a handbill.
            Only one newspaper page could be printed at a time; thus, the bed was moved forward for the second
                    page. Most often, a day or two separated the printing of the outside and inside pages, which not
                    only allowed the ink to set properly from the earlier printing, but in offices where type was in
                    short supply, type from the outside pages was needed to compose matter for the inside pages. When
                    printing was completed and the paper was dry, sheets were hand-folded to create the folio.
            Type was "set" by hand, a process no different than the one developed in the
                    mid-fifteenth century by Johann Gutenberg (1400?–1469). Each letter, number, punctuation
                    mark, astronomical 
                  
                     17 Readers seeking detailed information about printing with the wood
                            press should consult Herbert Davis and Harry Carter, eds., Joseph
                                Moxon's Mechanick Exercises on the Whole Art of Printing (2nd ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1978). Moxon's work, originally published in 
                                London
                             in 1683–1684, was the first manual for printers. After three
                            centuries, it remains the most complete guide to the wood press, hand-casting of type,
                            composition, paper preparation, and various printing office procedures and customs that
                            continued well into the nineteenth century. A working replica of Moxon's
                            seventeenth-century press is on permanent display in the Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                  
                     18 Although some experts maintain that 250 impressions per hour were
                            attainable, one printing historian says "it was hard work for two men [using a
                            Ramage] to print 75 copies on one side [two newspaper pages] in an hour." John
                            Clyde Oswald, Printing in the Americas (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 497n.
                  
                     19 Measurements were taken of the early 
                                Brookville
                             newspaper in the Newspaper Section, Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Length and width measurements vary slightly from one page to the next due to
                            the uneven deckle on handmade papers. Lacking paper cutters, pioneer printers almost never
                            removed the deckle.
               
                    
                    
                  RAMAGE TWO-PULL PRESS OF SOME 1,200 PRESSES ADAM
                                RAMAGE CONSTRUCTED, ONLY 4 HAVE BEEN LOCATED. RAMAGE USED TOUGH HONDURAS
                                MAHOGANY, RECOVERED from TIMBERS of SAILING SHIPS ABANDONED or BEING REFITTED in the PHILADELPHIA SHIPYARD. the SCREW, PLATEN, FRISKET, and OTHER METAL PARTS WERE CAST and FINISHED in the PHILADELPHIA AREA.
                  
                     Courtesy Landis Valley Museum, 
                        Lancaster, Pennsylvania
                     .
                sign, border piece, spacing material, and so on was a single piece of metal with a raised,
                    reversed character, each separate character kept in a compartmentalized case. 
                        Brookville
                    's printers called their type faces by names given specific sizes by William
                    Caxton (1422?–1491), the first English printer.20 Type prices were
                    fairly consistent during the first half of the nineteenth century, costing from thirty-two to ninety
                    cents a pound according to size. Printers usually ordered new type by "bills," a
                    bill being five hundred pounds. Until the early 1820s Indiana printers normally obtained type from
                    eastern suppliers, which frequently was a problem due to the distance and freight charges.21 Added to the inconvenience of distance was the foundries' demands
                    for payment in specie and the fact that the pioneer printer "was bedeviled by variations in
                    line and design on what was supposed to be the same type face," Thomas Roy Jones has
                    written. "Each foundry did as it pleased, and deliberately made variations in type faces to
                    retain the trade of the printers who were its customers."22
            
            Maintaining a steady and reliable paper supply was a constant problem, both for colonial and pioneer
                    printers. Indiana printing 
                  
                     20 See George D. Painter, William Caxton: A
                            Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1977).
                  
                     21 Foundries were begun in 
                                Pittsburgh
                             between 1817–1829, but all quickly failed. David Bruce, Jr., The History of Typefounding in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1925), 16–17, 19; Rollo G. Silver, Typefounding in
                                America, 1787–1825 (
                        Charlottesville, Va.
                     ,
                            1965).
                  
                     22 Thomas Roy Jones, Printing in America, and American
                                Type Founders (
                                New York
                            , 1948), 30.
               
                     offices seem to have ordered their paper from three mills. One,
                    "Samuel Jackson & Co.," founded in 1797, was on the Big Redstone near
                    present-day 
                  Brownsville, Pennsylvania
               ; another, "Craig, Parkers &
                    Co.'s Paper Manufactory," which began production in 1793, was near
                            
                  Georgetown, Kentucky
               ; a third, "Waldsmith & Co.,"
                    started in 1810, was on a bend of the Little Miami near 
                        Cincinnati
                    .23 Paper was handmade, and there was an insatiable need for linen
                    and cotton rags, which were the heart of paper. "RAGS! RAGS!" 
                        Brookville
                    's Morris pleaded. "There is not less than one thousand dollars per
                    annum carried out of this county to buy paper, but if the people would save their rags a sufficient
                    quantity could be collected to buy all the paper used."24 For decades
                    the going price was approximately three cents per pound, payable in cash. Printers also offered
                    credit for rags toward subscriptions, advertising, stationery, and school books.
            Added to the technical matters in making paper were problems with the weather, such as an unexpected
                    rise or fall of rivers, upon which paper shipments often arrived. The "uncommon lowness of
                    the water" in the fall of 1819 forced the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph to conserve paper by printing on a half sheet.25 Although pioneer papermills could produce about twenty-five hundred sheets
                        daily,26 production came to a standstill in freezing weather when the
                    essential water turned to ice. In addition, snow and frozen mud made early Indiana roads virtually
                    impassable. In 
                        Brookville
                    , "the badness of the roads" had delayed an expected paper shipment in
                    early 1819.27
            
            When a printing office received the wrong size of paper, consternation and innovation obviously came
                    to the fore. Two extant issues of the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Enquirer are printed on sheets with a width of more than twenty-two inches, less
                    than the standard of twenty-five inches.28
            
            Although stock illustrations were available from typefounders, few were used in early 
                        Brookville
                    , and Indiana printers as a whole generally did not begin using them extensively until
                    the early 1830s.29 The 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph, and the 
                  
                     23 Dard Hunter, Papermaking: The History and Technique of
                                an Ancient Craft (1947; 
                                New York
                            , 1978); Frances L. S. Dugan and Jacqueline P. Bull, eds., Blue-grass Craftsmen (
                        Lexington,
                                    Ky.
                     , 1959), ix-xxi; Marie
                            Dickoré, "The Waldsmith Paper Mill," Historical
                                and Philosophical Society of 
                                    Ohio
                                 Bulletin, V (March, 1947), 6–24.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer, May 2, 1820.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph, October 8, 1819; issues printed in such a
                            manner ran from October 22 through November 25.
                  
                     26 David C. Smith, History of Papermaking in the 
                                    United States
                                 (1691–1969) (
                                New York
                            , 1970), 51.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph, February 26, 1819.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer, March 23, April 13, 1820.
                  
                     29 See 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, April 9, 1831, which ran twelve illustrations.
               
                    
                    
                        Brookville
                    
                    Enquirer that followed, used an illustration of a spread eagle with shield,
                    arrows, and olive branch, and an airborne winged angel adorned the Enquirer's "Miscellaneous" column, devoted to essays and verses
                    about morality, death, unrequited love, and patriotism.30 The most dramatic
                    illustration found in the early 
                        Brookville
                     papers was of a "living African LION" used in an advertisement for an
                    exhibition at the 
                        Brookville
                     Hotel in 1819. "The form of this Lion is strikingly majestic," the ad
                    declared underneath the cut. Probably the exhibitor owned the cut, and took it with him when he and
                    his lion departed.31
            
            Obtaining ink seems to have posed few problems, although the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Enquirer once delayed publication "owing to a disappointment in receiving
                    a supply."32 "Printing Ink," a mid-nineteenth-century
                    source explained, "is a composition of two articles, namely, varnish and colouring
                    matter," and to render the two into a substance suitable for printing, one had to mix and
                    boil them, which apart from being a fire hazard created an overpowering stench.33
            
            No doubt there was relief among Indiana printers when printer supply houses opened in 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     as early as 1819. In 1820, when John P. Foote started the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Type Foundry and Printers' Ware House, one Indiana publisher noted that the
                    establishment would "undoubtedly be of very great advantage to the printers in the western
                    country generally."34 The foundry's reputation spread as the
                    Union stretched west to the Great Plains, making it the principal supplier to numerous printing
                    offices, which sprung up on the prairies like buffalo grass.35
            
            And so, once printer and necessary equipment and supplies were obtained, 
                        Franklin County
                     awaited the publication of its first newspaper. On or about October 22, 1816, with
                    Morris as editor and part owner and Ogle as the principal printer, the Plain
                    Dealer made its first appearance. For its motto Morris borrowed from William Shakespeare,
                    "Yet, by your gracious patience, I will a round unvarnish'd tale
                    deliver." Morris omitted the final six words of the phrase, "of my whole course of
                    love," which made no journalistic sense and would have raised readers'
                        eyebrows.36
            
            
               
                  30 The column first appeared December 24, 1819.
               
                  31
                        
                            Brookville
                        
                        Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph, May 7, 1819.
               
                  32
                        
                            Brookville
                        
                        Enquirer, May 2, 1820.
               
                  33 William Savage, A Dictionary of the Art of Printing
                        … (1841; 
                            London
                        , 1966), 416.
               
                  34
                        
                            Madison
                        
                        Indiana Republican, July 27, 1820. Also see Walter Sutton, "
                            Cincinnati
                         As a Frontier Publishing and Book Trade Center, 1796-1830," 
                     
                                Ohio
                             State Archaeological and Historical Quarterly, LVI (April, 1947), 117-43.
               
                  35 See Benjamin Drake and E. D. Mansfield, 
                     
                                Cincinnati
                             in 1826 (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1827), 63.
               
                  36 The phrase is from Othello, Act 1, sc. 3. Only two
                        issues of the four-page weekly have survived. The earliest, volume I, number 3, is dated
                        Tuesday, November 5, 1816.
            
            
            In column one appeared "Terms of Publication," containing subscription and
                    advertising information and a caveat that "All letters to the editor must be
                        post paid."37 A yearly subscription was two dollars if paid in
                    advance, but if the subscriber did not have cash, the Plain Dealer would accept
                    country produce—wheat, whiskey, wool, sugar—and presumably any other item that
                    had utility.38 The Plain Dealer's advertising rate
                    for a notice "not exceeding one square" (approximately four square inches) was one
                    dollar for three insertions and twenty-five cents for every subsequent insertion, with
                    "Larger ones in proportion." Although advertisers were expected to pay for their
                    notices at the time they were placed, there is no evidence that any early Hoosier editor was
                        adamant.39
            
            In the third issue Morris offered an explanation for the newspaper's name. It is apparent
                    that he intended the Plain Dealer to be neither a sheet for personal trumpeting
                    nor an organ of political favoritism or persuasion. He would be free, however, to criticize
                    political actions when he felt it necessary. He also implied that he would not allow letters intent
                    on character assassination: 
                        Since the commencement of The Plain Dealer, I have frequently been
                            questioned on the motives that induced me to adopt so strange a name for my paper. It is an
                            opinion too generally received, that a newspaper, or public journal, is a kind of political engine, by which a few individuals endeavor to foist themselves
                            into office, or traduce the characters of individuals, for the mere gratification of
                            personal pique. That plain dealing, should be pursued in transactions of
                            this kind; or in fact, in any thing that has any connection with politics, or the
                            administration of government, is to many, an enigma they cannot solve. There are many, who
                            judging from these premises, conclude that every protestation of honesty, or name indicative
                            of impartiality, that is assumed, is but a refined manner of double
                                dealing.
                     40
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  37 The 
                            Centerville
                        
                        Western Times, June 13, 1829, lamented that "There are hundreds of
                        conceited scribblers throughout the country, who think they are calculated to shine in a
                        newspaper, and forthwith they commence scrawling, and cramming their trash into the postoffice,
                        directed to the printer … but not one time in fifty do they think to pay the
                        postage."
               
                  38 With few exceptions subscription rates for pioneer Indiana papers were
                        $2.00 per year in advance, $2.50 if paid within six months, and
                        $3.00 if settled at the end of the year, along with 50¢ for delivery by
                        private post, usually hired by printers. See Milton W. Hamilton, The Country
                            Printer: 
                                New York
                             State, 1785-1830 (2nd ed., 
                     Port
                                Washington, N.Y.
                  ,
                        1964), 216, 218-19. Barter transactions, of course, were common. Recalled one
                            Whitewater Valley pioneer, "I recollected going with my father
                        to see the editor about subscribing for his paper, who traded him the old meatax by dressing it
                        up and blacking it with pitch, and putting a new straight handle in it, for a year's
                        subscription to the Public Ledger." A Native [John Macamy Wasson], Annals
                            of Pioneer Settlers on the Whitewater and its Tributaries, in the Vicinity of 
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., from 1804 to 1830 … (
                            Richmond
                        , Ind., 1875), 56.
               
                  39 Readers who have occasion to examine early nineteenth-century
                        newspapers may be mystified by the letters and numbers that often appear after ads. The Plain Dealer used td to mean "today only,"
                            tf for "till forbid," and t for
                            "times"—3tl meant three times, first
                        insertion. Some marks, however, defy translation. One advertisement in the Plain
                            Dealer is followed by ewtdj& 1da!2.
               
                  40
                        
                            Brookville
                        
                        Plain Dealer, November 12, 1816.
            
            
            
               BETHUEL F. MORRIS
               
               Courtesy Indiana University Archives, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            Morris also sung the advantages of 
                        Franklin County
                    . Brook-ville, he observed, had several hundred souls and "upwards of eighty
                    buildings, exclusive of shops, stables, and outhouses." Industries included "one
                    grist mill … two sawmills … four boot and shoe makers … 2
                    blacksmiths, a chairmaker … five taverns, 7 stores … a market house,"
                    a brick courthouse "nearly finished," and, of course, "one printing
                    office." As for the land, "The last harvest produced several crops of wheat
                    … that weighed from sixty-five to sixty-eight pounds per bushel; and the best crops of
                    grass I have ever seen, are produced without the aid of manure. Corn, oats, rye, flax, hemp, sweet
                    and Irish potatoes, &c. &c. are produced in abundance."41 This glowing account was obviously intended to attract settlers. Morris was aware that some
                    of his fellow citizens would send their Plain Dealers "back
                    home" and perhaps expected that some newspapers on his exchange list would reprint the
                        item.42
            
            Although there probably was enough business to keep the Plain Dealer going, at one
                    point it apparently was suspended for several months.43 Interruptions in
                    publication dates often occurred to Indiana's pioneer news sheets because of nonarrival of
                    mail with its essential exchange newspapers, but it is unknown if mail problems plagued the Plain Dealer.
               44 Another common cause of suspensions was lack
                    of paper.
            The Plain Dealer contained a wealth of information. For instance, readers were
                    informed that "DR. D. OLIVER HAS ON HAND, AND INTENDS KEEPING A VARIETY OF
                    MEDICINE." 
                  
                            41
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     42 If newspapers were not sent more than one hundred miles, the
                            postage was one cent per copy; beyond one hundred, a cent and a half. For comparison, a
                            small, single-sheet letter cost from six to twenty-five cents depending on the distance
                            mailed. Congress permitted a newspaper printer to mail without cost a paper to each
                            newspaper printer in the 
                                United States
                             and its territories. Gerald Cullinan, The Post Office
                            Department (
                                New York
                            , 1968), 28, 249, 255. The free exchange of newspapers between publishers did
                            not end until March 3, 1845.
                  
                     43 "Whitewater Valley—A
                            Garden Spot Equal in Beauty and Fertility to any in the World," The
                                Indianian, III (1899), 119.
                  
                     44 The 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer on April 20, 1820, changed its publication day to agree with the
                            "arrival and departure of the several Mails."
               
                     The doctor listed 127 items, among them laudanum, tincture of
                    hellabore, Ching's Worm Destroying Lozenges, and castor oil. He also had paints, dye
                    stuffs, and varnish for sale. John Swank, cabinet maker, warranted his work—bedsteads,
                    sideboards, clock cases, "&c.
                        &c."—"to be of the best quality." Luther
                    Russell, a silversmith, had "a handsome stock of WATCH MATERIALS" and also made
                    swords and dirks. Henry A. Read, at his new saddlery, was selling his merchandise "as low
                    in price as in 
                        Cincinnati
                    ." Shoemaker William M. Copes was in urgent need of an apprentice as well as a
                    journeyman cordwainer. Harrison J. Robinson also needed a boy "of moral and industrious
                    habits (none other need apply)" to learn the tailoring trade. Persons in debt to the late
                    John Stockdale were instructed to see the administrators of his estate at once and "make
                    immediate payment." Christopher Dart needed "Good Clean Ashes." Daniel
                    Hankins & Co. wished to contract for five thousand deer skins; tanner Samuel Goodwin also
                    wanted hides as well as a "good MILCH COW with a young calf."
                    Scotch snuff was available from James Winchill; in another ad he also asked those who owed him money
                    to "come forward and pay." Jacob Ross lost his red 
                        morocco
                     pocket book containing twenty-seven dollars in bank notes and a note "on
                    Edmund Adams for fifteen barrels of corn." He offered a five dollar reward. John Garrison,
                    who had agreed to buy a house and lot in November, 1815, for four hundred dollars, and in fact was
                    living in the house, was anxious to find the owner so he could pay the money and receive the
                        deed.45
            
            The Plain Dealer contained news that, although not current, was fresh to the
                    readers. Morris gleaned most of his news from the pages of the National
                    Intelligencer, the quasi-official organ of the federal union.46 The
                    November 5 Plain Dealer reprinted items from the National
                        Intelligencer's October 7 through October 12 issues that, in turn, were filled
                    with items dated as early as August 12 and as late as October 7. Thus, the news in the third issue
                    of the Plain Dealer was between one and three months old.
            Readers of the November 5 issue were offered a virtual potpourri of items—occasionally
                    grisly and frequently sensational—the discussion of which likely enlivened a week of
                    evenings. They learned that in early October Bostonians inhaled smoke from extensive forest fires in 
                        New Hampshire
                     and 
                        Maine
                    . In Sackett's Harbor, 
                        New York
                    , an audience was lured to a wire dancing exhibition primarily to see "an
                    Italian sailor, who promised to exhibit 
                  
                     45
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Plain Dealer, November 5, 1816.
                  
                     46 Founded in 1800 in 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , the National Intelligencer had close ties with the
                            administrations of Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and James Monroe and served as
                            Congress's gazette for many years. See William E. Ames, A History of
                                the National Intelligencer (
                        Chapel
                                Hill, N.C.
                     ,
                        1972).
               
                    
                    
                  PAGE ONE
                  
               
                    
                    
                  PAGE TWO (of FOUR)
                  Courtesy American Antiquarian Society, 
                        Worcester, Massachusetts
                     .
               
                     wonderful feats, such as the spectators had never before seen.
                    Curiosity attracted a full house." The sailor came out, placed a pillow on the floor, laid
                    down then "drew from his bosom a pistol, clapped the muzzle to his ear, and blew out his brains! This closed the entertainment."
            
               
                        Brookville
                    's native Virginians no doubt were interested in the account of a
                    "smooth and genteel" dark-eyed gentleman named Vanhorn who arrived in
                            
                  Richmond, Virginia
               , and announced that he was an agent for a daring balloonist,
                    one Venette "recent from 
                        France
                    ." Venette, he said, would astound the populace with a thrilling ascent
                    "200 feet in the airy regions." An obliging printer made up, on the cuff,
                    handbills and tickets, and Vanhorn sold several hundred. On the day before the ascension, Vanhorn
                    chartered a seat on the mail stage and rumbled north, presumably to fetch Venette and his balloon.
                    The next afternoon "a considerable crowd assembled on the Capitol Square; but no Venette,
                    no Vanhorn … the Prince of Pickpockets…. His plunder estimated at 2 or 300
                    dollars."
            The issue was also peppered with foreign news: 
                        Spain
                     was preparing for a "great expedition" to South America and
                    "Seamen are impressed to man the fleet." The American consul at
                            
                  Palermo, Italy
               , was found in his chamber at the foot of his bed, "bathed
                    in his blood, and a pistol by his side." There was also a gruesome item from 
                        London
                    —residents of a rooming house in 
                        Bloomsbury
                     complained to the landlord of a nauseous stench coming from one of the rooms. Upon
                    investigation, the skinned bodies of fifteen dogs were discovered, presumably butchered "to
                    make into cheap-mutton pies, sausages or for some such purpose." Meanwhile, an American
                    squadron was on the move in the Mediterranean, and there had been an earthquake in 
                        Scotland
                    .
            In the literary vein, Morris offered two poems printed beneath a small head that read "The
                    Olio." One poem was titled "The Bachelor's Wish," the other
                    "The Lady's Wish." An anecdote related a tale about a student who,
                    desiring to learn to play the flute, discovered to his dismay that lessons would cost twice as much
                    the first month as the second. He decided to "come the second month." There also
                    is an extract of a letter from 
                        France
                     to a gentleman in 
                        Boston
                     describing Havre de Grace in 
                        France
                    ; an item reprinted from the 
                  Zanesville,
                            Ohio
               , Express about an 
                        Ohio
                     resident who claimed that he had been captured by Indians and forced to be a slave for
                    five years; and a tale about Napoleon Bonaparte and his problem with a colonel who commanded Swiss
                    guards. Farmers plagued by crows in their cornfields were given advice on how to get rid of them;
                    the secret was to tickle the crows to death by threading grains of corn with horse hair.
            The Plain Dealer survived for a little more than two years. Ogle was the first to
                    quit the printing office. Perhaps he was a  wanderer at heart, a
                    common affliction of nineteenth- and early twentieth-century printers.47 The
                    cash flow through the office may also have been weak. Whatever the reason, Ogle sold his share to
                    John Scott and vanished from the Indiana printing scene.48 Whether Morris then
                    assisted Scott with the printing is unknown. There may have been a salaried printer in the office,
                    or perhaps a roving journeyman was taken on.49
            
            In late 1817 Morris retired to become the county recorder.50 Morris then sold his
                    share to Guernsey G. Brown, who was a Baptist preacher.51 By this time, the Plain Dealer's title may have been extended to the Plain
                        Dealer and White Water Gazette, a title that is mentioned in an advertisement announcing
                    lot sales.52 The proprietorial changes are evident from a notice that appeared
                    several times during 1819 in 
                        Brookville
                    's second newspaper when Morris, Scott, and Brown tried to collect the printing
                    office's outstanding accounts. 
                        Domestic Intelligence.
                        IMPORTANT—TO US!!!
                        All persons indebted to MORRIS and SCOTT, for Advertising, Job Printing, Subscription,
                            &c. are requested to make payment to John Scott on or before the 15th of October
                            next.
                        Those who fail to comply with this request may rest assured that their Notes and
                                Accounts will be put in suit, without respect to persons.
                  
                        ALSO
                        Those indebted to BROWN and SCOTT, are desired to make payment on or before the above date;
                            those that fail to do so, will be dealt with in like manner.
                        We deem it necessary to inform those that have made payment to persons authorised to make
                            collections for us are yet standing open; therefore, it is necessary they should present
                            their receipts in order that the Books may be closed. And further we request all those that
                            hold funds belonging to either of the FIRMS, to make their Remittances without delay.
                     53
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     47 Lamented one editor, printers "are the class of
                            dissipated, careless, well informed good hearted men … without a settled
                            habitation any where!" 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, June 15, 1833. See also William S. Pretzer, "Tramp
                            Printers: Craft Culture, Trade Unions, and Technology," Printing
                                History, VI (1984), 3-16.
                  
                     48 Coker F. Clarkson, who was editor (1883-1853) of the 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, recalled that the Plain Dealer
                            "as well as the publisher [Ogle], was ephemeral, as eighteen years afterward no
                            citizen of 
                                Brookville
                             could tell how long it was published or what became of the publisher."
                            C. F. Clarkson to L. L. Burke, June 4, 1888, quoted in Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , 483. Newspaper printers were often referred to as publishers.
                  
                     49 Numerous "journeyman printer wanted" ads appear
                            in pioneer weeklies.
                  
                     50 He was also a partner in a mercantile business with Robert John and
                            cashier of the 
                                Brookville
                             branch of the Indiana State Bank, for which John and his brother Enoch were
                            directors. Atlas of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 95.
                  
                     51 Clarence S. Brigham, History and Bibliography of
                                American Newspapers, 1690-1820 … (2 vols., Hamden, Conn., 1962), I, 138.
                  
                     52
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph, February 5, 1819. The lot sales were in 
                                Vevay
                            . Indiana.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., September 24, 1819.
               
                     There is no evidence that the three ever sued anyone.
            How long Brown remained is unknown. Scott certainly was in charge of the office in January, 1819, for
                    an apprentice was James Knight, "about 17 or 18 years of age," whose supervision
                    was Scott's responsibility. Knight absconded from the printing office on January 14.
                    "Stop the runaway," demanded Scott. "A reasonable reward will be given to
                    any person who will secure him in any Jail in the 
                        United States
                     so that I can get him again."54 It is unknown why Knight
                    fled, but runaway apprentices to the printing business seems to have been the rule rather than the
                        exception.55
            
            Apparently subscribers had no interruption of newspaper service between the passing of the Plain Dealer and the birth of 
                        Brookville
                    's second newspaper, the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph,
               56 which began February 5,
                    1819. That same day Brown wrote the 
                        United States
                     Department of State to inform it that he had sold his share in the Plain
                        Dealer to "John Scott & Co.," thus transferring the
                    responsibility of publishing the Union's public laws and official pronouncements.57
            
            Scott's company included three 
                        Brookville
                     lawyers who presumably would share the editorial duties, and perhaps brothers 
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., February 5, 1819. This notice must have also appeared in the last
                            issue of the Plain Dealer, which has not survived.
                  
                     55 In 1837, for instance, twenty "gentlemen, connected with
                            the Press of Indiana," convened in 
                                Indianapolis
                             to consider what to do with, among other problems, footloose apprentices. They
                            resolved that no editor should employ an apprentice "from the office of another
                            without the approbation of the former." See 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, June 3, 1837.
                  
                     56 "Telegraph" did not refer to the electric
                            telegraph that Samuel F. B. Morse was to patent in 1840, but rather to a device named telegraphe developed in 
                                France
                             between 1792 and 1794, which sent messages in code across distances by varying
                            the arrangement of cross-bars atop high poles. In the 
                                United States
                            , the term as a newspaper name was first used February 10, 1795, when the Telegraphe was founded in 
                        Carlisle, Pennsylvania
                     .
                            Scott may have liked the term when he lived in 
                                Carlisle
                            , although by then the paper had been extinct for several years. See Alston G.
                            Field, "The Press in 
                                Western Pennsylvania
                             to 1812," 
                        
                                    Western Pennsylvania
                                 Historical Magazine, XX (December, 1937), 236–37; Boyd
                            Crumrine, History of 
                                    Washington County
                                , 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                      (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1882), 406; Clarence S. Brigham, Journals and Journeymen: A
                                Contribution to the History of Early American Newspapers (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1950), 12–14.
                  
                            
                        57 Brigham, History and Bibliography of American
                                    Newspapers, I, 138. 
                                    Brookville
                                's early newspapers never benefited from state patronage, but
                                undoubtedly the Plain Dealer had been awarded federal patronage by the
                                State Department in 1828. Renewals for its successors continued until 1828. On April 20,
                                1818, the number of newspapers deemed "Printer of the Laws of the
                                U.S." in a territory or state had been increased to three, and the matter to be
                                published was expanded to include amendments to the Constitution, public treaties, and
                                Congressional resolutions. Compensation was set at one dollar per printed page, an
                                increase of fifty cents. Newspapers seem to have received around one hundred dollars
                                annually.
                            Printing offices also received money from their county treasuries. During the period
                                between November 9, 1818—November 14, 1820, 
                                    Franklin County
                                 expended eleven dollars for printing. Village postmasterships, finally,
                                were also eagerly sought by printers, but none of 
                                    Brookville
                                's pioneer printers was so blessed. 
                                    Hamilton
                                , The Country Printer, 121, 134; House
                                    Executive Document No. 41, 19 Cong., 1 sess., 1825–1826,
                                5–8; 
                                    Brookville
                                
                                Enquirer, December 12, 1820.
                        
               
                     D. W. and Charles W. Hutchen, from 
                  Henderson, Kentucky
               , both of whom were printers who would acquire the printing office in
                        1824.58 It is unknown if the lawyers—William Drew, Daniel
                    Caswell, and Miles Carey Eggleston—invested money in the enterprise.59
            
            The motto of Scott's paper was "The Freedom of the Press without
                        Licentiousness."60 Its prospectus, evidently drafted by the
                    lawyers, filled nearly three columns in the first issue. The prospectus may have appeared originally
                    as a handbill circulated by Scott before the news sheet debuted, which was common for many pioneer
                    printers as a way of testing the waters before committing themselves to the economic responsibility
                    of publishing a newspaper. In part, "Scott & Co." pledged: 
                        Malicious calumnies whether directed against the public or its officers, as they serve no
                            beneficial purpose, can never find a place in our columns. All libellous attacks, as they
                            are only calculated, to embitter private animosities and to disturb the harmony of society,
                            by sowing the seeds of dissention and diffusing the poisonous malignity of the passions,
                            will also be excluded. Written communications from Correspondents, having for their object
                            the promotion of any salutary purpose, relative to the government, or to the people, will be
                            cheerfully inserted, if their style and content be such, as to authorize their
                            publication….
                        Citizens of the State of Indiana, our strongest predilections and warmest sympathies are
                            interwoven with her present and future welfare. Anxious to promote her interests and
                            accelerate her growth, no exertions, contributory to these ends will be remitted. Gifted by
                            the munificence of Heaven with a delightful climate, and a soil rivaling in fertility the
                            loam of the Nile, and encompassing within her bosom an industrious and enterprising
                            population, ambitious of every laudable pursuit, and emulous of every virtuous and patriotic
                            achievement; she bids fair, under the auspices of a well conducted Press, and a wise
                            administration of her government, 
                        
                           58 The 
                                        Brookville
                                    
                                    American, June 12, 1958. In March, 1820, Charles Hutchen
                                    advertised 160 acres of land for sale, noting that "For further particulars
                                    enquire at the Printing Office." 
                                        Brookville
                                    
                                    Enquirer, March 16, 1820.
                        
                           59 Drew and Caswell were law partners. See their advertisement
                                    in the 
                                        Brookville
                                    
                                    Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph, February 5, 1819. Well-to-do, Drew
                                    owned two thousand acres in 
                                        Franklin County
                                     and many lots in 
                                        Brookville
                                    . He was 
                                        Franklin
                                    's state senator from 1819 to 1821. Atlas of 
                                            Franklin County
                                        , 16; A Biographical Directory of the Indiana
                                        General Assembly: Vol. 1, 1816–1899 (
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , 1980), 106. Eggleston (1791–1851) was a native of 
                                        Amelia County
                                    , 
                                        Virginia
                                    . He came to Indiana Territory in 1815 after completing classical and
                                    legal studies at the College of William and Mary, 
                              Williamsburg, Virginia
                           , and settled first in 
                                        Lawrenceburg
                                    . He then removed to 
                                        Brookville
                                     and later to 
                                        Vevay
                                    . Toward the end of his life, he taught law at 
                                        Hanover
                                     College, 
                                        Hanover
                                    . He was a second cousin to Edward Eggleston (1837–1902),
                                    author of The Hoosier School-Master: A Novel (1871). Blanche Goode
                                    Garber, "Judge Miles Carey Eggleston," Indiana
                                        Magazine of History, XVII (September, 1921), 195–200; William P.
                                    Randel, Edward Eggleston (
                                        New York
                                    , 1946), 3.
                        
                           60 Interestingly, the motto of 
                                        Washington
                                    , Pa., Western Gazette, and Beaver, Pa., Beaver Gazette was "Free, but not Licentious." See
                                    Joseph H. Bausman, History of 
                                            Beaver County
                                        , 
                                            Pennsylvania
                                        , and Its Centennial Celebration (2 vols., 
                                        New York
                                    , 1904), I, 455; Field, "The Press in 
                                        Western Pennsylvania
                                    ," 236–37.
                     
                             to vie ere long, in strength, intelligence and
                            resources, with the first Agricultural States in our Union.61
                  
                    
                
            Page one of the maiden issue was almost wholly filled with Federal acts, among them a provision for
                    removal of the Library of Congress to the north wing of the Capitol, an act to increase the number
                    of clerks in the Department of War, and a resolution declaring the admission of 
                        Illinois
                     into the Union. Of special interest was a letter from Indiana Senator James Noble at
                    the nation's capital, in which he predicted that recent treaties with Wea, Miami, and
                    Potawatomi Indians "presents pleasing prospects to the People of Indiana, and will be a
                    means of aiding the future prosperity of the state."
            Readers hopeful of easily gaining riches were tempted by a large advertisement announcing that
                    tickets in the 
                        Jeffersonville
                    
                    
                        Ohio
                     Canal Company lottery were available at six dollars each. The company sought to build a
                    canal on Indiana's side of the 
                        Ohio
                     to bypass the Falls, where a drop of some twenty feet or so endangered downriver
                    vessels and prevented upriver passage. The lottery was a failure; so was the canal.62
            
            In July and August, 1819, readers followed the unfolding of a domestic quarrel in 
                        Brookville
                    , reported through advertisements, which were frequent repositories of domestic turmoil.
                    Elijah Owen published a notice that since his wife Anne "has left my bed and board without
                    any just cause or provocation," he was "determined not to pay any debts of her
                    contracting after this date."63 A week later his wife's
                    rejoinder appeared. She accused him of threatening "to Kick me out of Bed and
                        turn me out of doors, besides the abuse I received from his tongue; also, he has been so
                        Lazy, &c. that there was no prospect of making a living for me nor his
                    children. Hardly ever could I get a fire made without his casting reflections in sickness, in health
                    or going and doing it myself, till my constitution is broke so that I could bare it no
                        more."64 The estranged husband quickly replied, expressing wonder
                    about how "could a woman's Constitution have been broken by making fires, when, in
                    making her elopement she travelled at the rate of forty miles per day on foot with a large budget
                    [personal possessions]."65 If there was a reconciliation, no evidence
                    was found that Elijah Owen fetched the wood and made the fires thereafter.
            
               
                  61
                        
                            Brookville
                        
                        Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph, February 5, 1819. Two newspaper editors in
                        particular were impressed by the salutary. See 
                            Cincinnati
                        
                        Western Spy, and 
                                Cincinnati
                             General Advertiser, February 19, 1819; Corydon Indiana
                            Gazette, March 6, 1819.
               
                  62 For more information on the struggle to get the passageway built, see
                        Stuart Seely Sprague, "The Canal at the Falls of the 
                            Ohio
                         and the Three Cornered Rivalry," Register of the 
                                Kentucky
                             Historical Society, LXXII (January, 1974), 38–54.
               
                  63
                        
                            Brookville
                        
                        Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph, July 16, 1819.
               
                  64
                        Ibid., August 6, 1819.
               
                  65 August 13, 1819.
            
            
            Within seven months the Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph's staff was in
                    disarray. The partnership ended in September, 1819. Eggleston left and was soon elected presiding
                    judge of Indiana's third judicial district. Around this time Caswell was thinking of
                    relocating in 
                        Dearborn County
                    . Drew may have been in poor health. The September 10 issue carried a notice that the
                    newspaper "Will be sold on good terms one divided half: an excellent press, a quantity of
                    good type comprising an assortment of job type."66 The notice claimed
                    that the newspaper had a weekly circulation of eight hundred and that the office did
                    "considerable JOB PRINTING." The newspaper's thirty-second issue,
                    September 24, 1819, was the last under the control of John Scott and Company. Morris almost
                    immediately bought back into the printing office.
            Under "B. F. Morris & Co.," the newspaper continued without interruption
                    one week after the dissolution of John Scott and Company. Morris's enterprise apparently
                    consisted of lawyers Caswell and Drew, but there is no evidence that Scott stayed on with the new
                    editorship. A significant change occurred with the March 2, 1820, issue when the title was shortened
                    to 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Enquirer. If Scott was a shareholder, the change possibly came about through
                    disagreement between him and Morris, for it seems that the relationship ultimately reached an
                    impasse. In September Morris published a warning: 
                        CAUTION
                        THE public are cautioned against taking an assignment of any NOTES given by me to John Scott
                            as I have equitable claims against the said Scott to balance the whole.67
                  
                    
                
            The Enquirer under Morris was no different journalistically than it was under
                    Scott. The news columns were filled with federal acts and reprinted items. In December, 1819,
                    Morris, perhaps exasperated by complaints his editorial decision elicited, published a piece likely
                    copied from an eastern gazette. "It is hard for a Printer to please every body,"
                    the item reads. "Many censure the Printer for copying articles of news from other papers of
                    the same state or neighborhood"; some want more advertisements yet others complain
                    "your paper is filled up too much with advertisements…. 
                  
                     66 Evidently the printing office had a second press and type that were
                            not for sale.
                  
                     67
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer, September 5, 1820. The notes would be signed slips stating that
                            Morris owed Scott the amount written on each, and could be given as tender to third parties
                            willing to accept them. If the "Caution" was truthful, Scott was equally
                            in debt to Morris. The question of Scott and money survived even into the twentieth century.
                            See 
                                Brookville
                            
                            American, June 12, 1958. Nevertheless, Scott continued to found
                            newspapers, including the Western Emporium in 
                                Centerville
                             in 1824 and the 
                                Logansport
                            
                            Potawattimie & Miami Times in August, 1829, then
                            Indiana's most northern weekly. He died in 
                                Logansport
                             on July 15, 1838. Scott, The Indiana Gazetteer, 15.
               
                     Nothing is now left but to throw ourselves on the generosity of
                    our readers, and beg them to reflect that ‘where there are many men, there are also many
                    minds.’ "68
            
            Local news of an ordinary nature received almost no notice from early Indiana editors. Only the
                    largest papers could afford the luxury of a team of local reporters, and even they did not employ
                    reporters until the 1840s. Obituaries and marriages were only occasionally recorded, and little
                    space was given to local election returns. But local news of tragic, violent, or dramatic nature was
                    almost never overlooked: 
                        On the night of the 14th inst. [October 14, 1822] the Merchant Mill belonging to James
                            Backhouse and Co. adjoining 
                                Brookville
                            , was burnt to ashes. In it was consumed a considerable quantity of flour, ready
                            barreled for the market, together with near 5,000 bushels of wheat and other grain. But,
                            beside all this, shocking to relate, one of the millers a young man perished in the flame!
                            it is said that he was seen sleeping on the bags in the evening, and immediately under the
                            place where they lay, he was dug out of the burning ruins the next day, an awful spectacle!
                            both legs and one arm burnt off, and the residue of him greatly disfigured! The young man
                            was the only hope of his mother who is a widow, and who chiefly subsisted through his
                                industry.69
                  
                     Two of 
                        Franklin County
                    's most dramatic events of the 1820s—a murder committed by a
                    well-liked 
                        Brookville
                     resident and his eventual hanging, and the last-minute pardon of an aged Brookvillian
                    and Revolutionary War veteran who sat in a wagon with a noose around his neck—certainly
                    warranted space.70
            
            Literate pioneers, starved for reading matter, probably were as attentive to the paid notices in
                    their little newspapers as they were to the columns that were stuffed with public laws, quirky
                    letters, maudlin poems, tax lists, squibs preaching sobriety and virtue, and names of persons for
                    whom mail was being held. A notice that appeared in the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Enquirer in the summer of 1820 certainly set tongues a-wagging: 
                        
                     LOOK AT THIS!!!
                        BY and in the presence of Almighty God, I JULIA C. NORTON, of 
                                Franklin County
                             and the state of Indiana, do declare and solemnly swear to the following
                            statement 
                        
                           68
                                    
                                        Brookville
                                    
                                    Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph, December 24, 1819.
                        
                           69
                                    
                                        Brookville
                                    
                                    Enquirer, October 22, 1822, quoted in 
                                        Charlestown
                                    
                                    Indiana Intelligencer, and Farmer's Friend, November 6,
                                    1822. Ironically, this tragedy figures indirectly in the early printing history of
                                    Indiana. After the fire the owner borrowed from the 
                                        United States
                                     Bank at 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     to rebuild. Several years later the business failed. James H. Speer of
                                    the 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     firm of Phillips & Speer acquired the property and, in July,
                                    1835, started Indiana's third papermill. The mill was the forerunner of
                                    what became a flourishing papermaking trade in 
                                        Brookville
                                    , lasting into the twentieth century. See Reifel, History
                                        of 
                                            Franklin County
                                        , 202, 206–208.
                        
                           70 The 
                                        Brookville
                                     press likely treated the incidents fully, but most issues for the dates
                                    concerned are no longer extant. See 
                                        Louisville
                                    
                                    Public Advertiser, February 2, 1820; 
                                        Brookville
                                    
                                    Enquirer, January 14, March 16, 1820; Atlas of 
                                            Franklin County
                                        , 16; James M. Miller, "An Early Criminal
                                    Case—Samuel Fields," Indiana Magazine of
                                    History, I (December, 1905), 201–203.
                     
                             herein described, that it is the truth and nothing but
                            the truth …. First, that this child I now have in my arms, and it being the child
                            I am the mother of, and my first and only child, was begotted by THOMAS HARVEY, resident of 
                                Fairfield
                             [north of 
                                Brookville
                            ] at the time the child was begotted: And that said child is the same that I
                            swore was begotten by William Popeno, and that said William Popeno has
                            not, at any time, had carnal knowledge of me. And further, that said Thomas
                                Harvey did induce me to swear that such child was begotten by William Popeno, and
                            promised to give me Fifty Dollars for so doing.
                        This acknowledgment is made by my own free will and consent, that justice may take place and
                            the guilty be punished.71
                  
                    
                
            The paid notices also provided information that later newspapers would treat as news: "Broke
                    from the jail of 
                        Fayette County
                    , on the night of the 17th of November, inst. a man who called himself John Brown, and
                    who was confined in said jail on a charge of having passed Counterfeit money
                    …. He is a rough black bearded, counterfeiting, jail breaking little rascal
                        …."72 Probably one of the strangest notices appeared in
                    the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph: 
                        I William McCleery, do acknowledge that on the 17th day of March Instant, I did assist in
                            placing a Swine's Head, on the door step of Luther Russell, erroneously. I believe
                            him to be clear of the felony which was commited upon a Swine, which was taken from the
                            widow Mary Knight, on the evening before.73
                  
                    
                
            On October 16, 1821, Morris's partner Drew died, and Caswell may have withdrawn.74 The printing office again went on the block and was purchased by Robert John,
                    Morris's mercantile business partner, and Robert's brother Enoch. Morris left 
                        Brookville
                     after an unsuccessful bid in 1822 to be the county's state representative. The
                    following year he was an editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette, and by 1825 was appointed president judge of Indiana's fifth
                    district circuit court. In December, 1830, he was elected the first recording secretary of the newly
                    formed Indiana Historical Society.75
            
            Under the Johns the Enquirer continued the federal patronage. Although few copies
                    of their paper have survived, the weekly seems to have taken no new tack except typographically;
                    column rules were removed from the first page. Their tenure with the paper, however, was shortened
                    by their position as directors of the 
                  
                     71
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer, August 5, 1820.
                  
                     72
                            Ibid., November 28, 1820.
                  
                     73
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph, March 19, 1819. Russell, watch and clock
                            repairer and maker of dirks, endorsed the notice that he was "hereby satisfied with
                            the above acknowledgment."
                  
                     74
                            Biographical Directory of the Indiana General Assembly, I, 106; 
                        
                                    Lawrenceburg
                                 Oracle, June 29, 1822. In 1824, Caswell was living in 
                                Delaware County
                            . See 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, March 27, 1824.
                  
                     75 W. R. Holloway, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                : A Historical and Statistical Sketch of the Railroad City (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1870), 30, 32, 38, 47, 265; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, February 2, 1864; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, May 3, 1823; Lana Ruegamer, History of the Indiana
                                Historical Society, 1830–1980 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1980).
               
                    
                    
                        Brookville
                     branch of Indiana's first state bank. By January, 1822, the 
                        Brookville
                     bank, its thirteen associate branches, and the main bank at 
                        Vincennes
                     were fiscal shambles. The John brothers and their fellow directors of the 
                        Brookville
                     institution could show deposits of only $8,630 while debts totaled
                        $95,319.76 About the time the doors of the branch closed in
                    March, 1822, Enoch left the Enquirer and the county to resettle in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     in 
                        Dearborn County
                    . Shortly after his departure, the Enquirer printed a short playlet,
                    presumably "communicated" by "Silentia," and which, slightly
                    tinged with sarcasm, was a poor booster for 
                        Franklin County
                    . The play opens in the "
                  
                            Brookville
                         Hotel—candle-light—Mr. LUTESTRING a
                        merchant reading the National Enquirer—enter Mr. KEEPMONEY, a
                        farmer." Keepmoney has just returned from a tour of the New Purchase.
                    "What a haven of rest is here[,] Mr. Lutestring[,] for the lazy and indolent," he
                    remarks, "and what a glorious prospect for the poor industrious farmer of the
                        east!"77 The play rattled on through two columns with Keepmoney
                    uttering nothing but praise for the virtually untrammeled land west of 
                        Franklin County
                    . Undoubtedly Silentia was moved to dramaturgy by recent events in 
                        Brookville
                    .
            When the Indiana General Assembly appropriated land for Fayette and Union counties, 
                        Franklin County
                     lost much of its most valuable farming land and hundreds of its most prosperous
                    farmers. Then in June, 1820, when the site for the new state capital was selected, there was
                    "a stampede of the people" to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . One source says "good houses were deserted by the owners, who did not wait to
                    sell them to newcomers, and grass grew in the streets of the town. It is said that for some time
                    many houses that cost from one thousand to five thousand dollars were occupied by
                        sheep."78 The closing of the bank could not have kindled good
                    cheer. And worse news was yet to come.
            Enoch John's share in the Enquirer appears to have been picked up by John
                    Scott, for the July 25, 1822, issue lists the publishers as "R. John & J. W.
                    Scott." But it, too, was to be a brief partnership. By the end of the year, Scott seems to
                    have put 
                        Brookville
                     behind him and crossed over to 
                        Wayne County
                    .
            The next extant issue of the Enquirer, January 8, 1823, notes the proprietors as
                    "R. John & J. Knight, printers." Presumably Knight is the former Scott
                    apprentice who fled the printing office in early 1819. If so, he apparently was set to leave again,
                    for his titularly status is missing from the January 3, 1824, issue that 
                  
                     76 Logan Esarey, "The First Indiana Banks," Indiana Magazine of History, VI (December, 1910), 144–58.
                  
                     77
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer, April 2, 1822.
                  
                     78 Baskin, Forster, pub., Illustrated Historical Atlas of
                                the State of Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1876), 233.
               
                     notes the management as being only "Robert John
                    & Co." Likely Knight's share had been sold by this time to Isaac Newton
                    Hanna, "a sprightly and talented young man" and a member of one of 
                        Brookville
                    's pioneer families. In 1823, Hanna became the weekly's junior editor.
                    By default, Robert John remained the senior editor.79 They appear to have
                    constituted an odd couple.
            Political differences between John and Hanna during the presidential election year of 1824 may have
                    prompted the demise of the Enquirer. John was an ardent supporter of John Quincy
                    Adams; Hanna was equally ardent about Henry Clay. The majority of 
                        Franklin County
                    's farmers, however, thumped for Andrew Jackson, while most 
                        Brookville
                     residents favored Clay. John and Hanna dissolved their partnership by mutual consent
                    October 7, 1824. Neither John's nor Hanna's choice carried 
                        Franklin County
                    .80
            
            John and Hanna found quick buyers for the printing office—brothers D. W. and Charles W.
                    Hutchen. The new owners changed the spelling of the newspaper's name from Enquirer to Inquirer and scrapped the former sheet's motto,
                    substituting "With all who make our country's good their aim, we union seek and
                    fellowship proclaim." The ownership change was warmly applauded by Edmund S. Buxton of the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Public Leger, who expressed the hope that the 
                        Brookville
                     paper "will hereafter be conducted with more regard to decency and a firmer
                    adherence to truth than it has been for some time past."81
            
            At the very start of their Inquirer the Hutchen brothers were shaken by the
                    possibility of competition. "Great exertions are being made to establish another printing
                    office in this place," they remarked in an editorial, "and no doubt it has been
                    suggested to the people as absolutely necessary. A word is sufficient—we can do all the
                    business for this place and as much more."82 Nevertheless the threat
                    was worrisome enough to cause them to scurry for a more encompassing name. With their November 6,
                    1824, issue, the gazette was changed to the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Inquirer and 
                            Franklin
                         Republican, apparently chosen to impress the county's more populous
                    farming community that its interests were at heart. Such a ploy could attract subscribers and elicit
                    additional advertising.
            A competitive weekly did not materialize, due in part perhaps to the residue of the Panic of 1819 and
                    the transfer of government 
                  
                     79 John M. Johnson, "Recollections of Early 
                                Brookville
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, I (December, 1905),
                            197.
                  
                     80
                            Ibid.; 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Inquirer, October 23, 1824; Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough, comps.,
                                Indiana Election Returns, 1816–1851 (Indiana Historical
                                Collections, Vol. XL; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1960), 4–9.
                  
                     81
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, October 30, 1824.
                  
                     82
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Inquirer, October 23, 1824, quoted in Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , 484.
               
                    
                    
                  LAND OFFICE, BROOKVILLE, INDIANA USED 1820–1825
                  Courtesy Donald L. Dunaway.
                land offices from 
                        Brookville
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in February, 1825; the latter was particularly ruinous for 
                        Brookville
                    . But in a small way, the battered economy benefited the Hutchens: there was a need in
                    town for scrip, which were printed pieces of paper worth a value of money, commissioned by a
                    particular business.83
            
            In late September or early October, 1825, the Inquirer's name was again
                    changed, this time to the 
                        Franklin
                    
                    Repository. By then the Hutchens had likely concluded the sale of their press and
                    type to Augustus Jocelyn, who probably was responsible for the new title. In November the Hutchens
                    wrote Secretary of State Clay for permission to continue printing public laws under the
                    weekly's new name, but their application probably was to insure that Jocelyn would not lose
                    government patronage.84
            
            Jocelyn's origin is unknown, but in 1798 he was stationed as a Methodist minister in 
                        Middletown
                     and later Redding, 
                        Connecticut
                    .85
                    
                  
                     83 See Atlas of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , 95.
                  
                     84 James F. Hopkins, ed., The Papers of Henry Clay
                            (9 vols. to date, Lexington, Ky., 1959-), IV, 822.
               
                     Around 1819 he accepted a call to become a circuit rider in the
                    far country and migrated west with his wife and children, settling in or near 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . The following year he was appointed elder of the 
                        Brookville
                     church and was instrumental in completing the first brick Methodist church in the
                        Whitewater Valley.86
            
            Jocelyn's first Repository motto strongly identified him with Indiana and
                    its aims: "The Constitution of Indiana—sound republicanism—good order
                    and steady habits." And unlike Silentia's Keepmoney, who saw the New Purchase as
                    the shining future, Jocelyn encouraged local development, making his gazette a booster for progress.
                    An early supporter of a Whitewater canal, he argued that an engineered waterway would help the
                    region's strained economy and even led a delegation to 
                  Hamilton, Ohio
               , to discuss
                        plans.87 His booster zeal was matched by his religious enthusiasm, too;
                    occasionally he used his press to publish religious tracts.88
            
            Jocelyn eventually dispensed with the front page nameplate that had been strung across the top of
                    page one since the birth of the Plain Dealer. The nameplate was reduced to a
                    modest head at the top of column one, and a new motto—"Intelligence is the Life
                    of Liberty"—replaced the former. By this time, Jocelyn was in poor health, a
                    condition that gradually worsened. In the autumn of 1827, he decided to sell the printing office:
                        
                        The health of the Editor of the 
                                Franklin
                             Repository, having been constantly on the decline, by a pulmonary complaint,
                            for more than six months past, & which now confined him mostly to his house, and
                            some part of the time to his bed, and forbids a hope of recovery, while he continues his
                            editorial labours, induces him, rather than to terminate the operations of a press so well
                            located for the public convenience and interest, and which, with a very little exertion,
                            might be made handsomely lucrative to the owner, now to offer his printing establishment for
                            sale at a sacrifice, which will reduce it to less than one half its real value, and will,
                            (if required) give twelve months credit, with good security, for one half of the real amount
                            of purchase …. An amount not exceeding from two hundred and fifty to three
                            hundred dollars, will be required to be paid at the time of purchase.89
                  
                     No one accepted the terms, and the ailing editor continued his newspaper.
            The federal patronage that Jocelyn inherited when he started the Repository was
                    eagerly sought by Milton Gregg and David Culley, proprietors of the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    
                    Indiana Palladium. At the 
                  
                     85 Elmer T. Clark, ed., The Journal and Letters of
                                Francis Asbury (3 vols., 
                                London
                             and Nashville, Tenn., 1958), II, 164, 243, 344, 603. Asbury spelled the surname
                            "Jocelin."
                  
                     86 Allan Wiley, "Introduction and Progress of Methodism in
                            Southeastern Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XXIII
                            (September, 1927), 239–332.
                  
                     87 Chelsea L. Lawlis, "Prosperity and Hard Times in the
                                Whitewater Valley, 1830–1840," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIII (December, 1947), 369.
                  
                     88 See 
                                Brookville
                            
                            
                        
                                    Franklin
                                 Repository, October 31, 1826.
                  
                            89
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     tail end of the Adams administration, Gregg notified Clay that
                    he and Culley were "again applicants for the public printing" (the pair had tried
                    to pry the patronage loose in January, 1825) and claimed that their sheet had a larger circulation
                    than their rival, which may not have been true.90 Somewhat surprisingly since
                    Jocelyn was proadministration, Gregg and Culley were successful. "We have
                    learned," wrote a disappointed Jocelyn, "That the publishing of the Laws of the 
                        United States
                     by authority, has been withheld from the 
                        Franklin
                     Repository, and the patronage conferred upon the Indiana Palladium,
                    an Administration Opposition paper, that is plainly, neither one thing nor the other in that
                        respect."91 It is likely, however, that the Indiana
                        Palladium had subscribers in 
                  Boone County,
                            Kentucky
               , just across the river from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . A Kentuckian, Clay was also an opportunist to the core. Although put off by the
                    patronage loss, Jocelyn was a sufficiently responsible editor to inform his readers that
                    "we shall in the future publish them [the laws] by our own authority, and at our own
                    expense …. [at] a suitable time we may say something further on this
                        subject."92
            
            Jocelyn went on to accomplish what may be considered a journalistic first in Indiana if not the
                    nation by conducting and publishing a newspaper interview with a politician. He queried Governor
                    James Brown Ray, who was seeking reelection on a ticket that embraced none of the national parties.
                    Ray's opponent was 
                        Harrison County
                    's Harbin Moore, an avowed supporter of Adams. At the moment Indiana
                    enthusiasts of Andrew Jackson had no candidate for governor, but they immediately found one after
                    the interview was published. Dr. Israel T. Canby was so confident that he would be the
                    state's next governor that he immediately resigned his post as state representative for
                    Jefferson and Jennings counties. In June, 1828, Ray appeared in 
                        Brookville
                    , his former residence, and said publicly that he could back anyone who supported the
                    American system. The governor's fence straddling alarmed Jocelyn, whose political loyalty
                    was still with Adams and Clay, because he believed Ray's talk would be interpreted by
                    Jacksonians as friendly toward their cherished "Old Hickory." The interview likely
                    took place almost immediately after Ray completed his speech.
            The governor's published replies to Jocelyn's questions are oddly brief and
                    repetitious, unlike Ray's normally long-winded speech patterns. Jocelyn's
                    questions, however, are stretched and 
                  
                     90Hopkins, The Papers of Henry Clay, V,
                            851–52. Attempts to verify American newspaper and magazine circulations were not
                            made until the end of the nineteenth century.
                  
                     91
                     
                                Brookville
                            
                            
                        
                                    Franklin
                                 Repository, February 18, 1828.
                  
                     92Ibid.
               
                    
                    
                  RIDENCE of JAMES BROWN RAY, BROOKVILLE, INDIANA BUILT 1821
                  Courtesy Donald L. Dunaway.
                convoluted, suggesting that after the interview Jocelyn may have labored over the text
                    until he got the effect he wanted. More importantly, the interview was to demonstrate how such
                    reportage could affect an election campaign. "At the close of the conversation,"
                    Jocelyn wrote, "we observed to his excellency that we did not wish him to declare himself
                    on either side of the Presidential question; meaning (and we presume were so understood) that what
                    had passed already, made it sufficiently clear on which side his judgment and love of country had
                    permanently placed him." Jocelyn asserted that he was appending his remarks "For
                    the purpose of showing the opposition that there exists not the slightest pretext in fact, for their
                    claiming the Governor of Indiana for Jackson …. when his name is used … they
                    practice a foul deception upon the public, as well as upon their adherents."93
            
            The interview created a political tempest among Jocelyn's fellow editors. The Indiana Palladium accused him of partisanship: 
                  
                     93The issue of the 
                        
                                    Franklin
                                 Repository in which the interview appeared is no longer extant. The
                            interview was reprinted in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, June 19, 1828. See also Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough,
                            eds., Governor James Brown Ray: Messages and Papers, 1825–1831
                                (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXIV; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1954), 348–50.
               
                     "Your sentiments we must have, says
                    the editor and down he sits and frames a dialogue between himself and Mr. Ray."94 John Allen of the 
                        Salem
                    
                    Annotator in 
                        Washington County
                     reluctantly reprinted the interview, attaching to it a saddened caveat: "Never
                    since our connexion with a press has it been our duty to publish any thing … with so much
                    regret …. if Gov. Ray has made the declaration attributed to him … he has
                    forfeited all claims to the respect or support of either party."95 But
                    the editorial hubbub only bruised Ray's ego and did not kill him politically; in fact, the
                    interview may have earned him sympathetic votes, for he was returned to office.96
            
            With Jackson's inauguration came the stuffing of Jacksonians into federal posts; in late
                    1829, publishing patronage went to the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun, the 
                        Salem
                    
                    Western Annotator, and again to Jocelyn's bête
                        noire, the Indiana Palladium. The latter conveniently swung from its
                    neutral status to a Jacksonian paper after Gregg left the sheet. New editor Culley obviously studied
                    the election returns. Meanwhile, Jocelyn's health continued to decline.
            In November, 1828, Jocelyn informed his readers that "we shall stop the press after having
                    issued two numbers more … Several persons we well know, wish to possess themselves of our
                    printing establishment … but knowing at the same time that we have long since determined,
                    on account of our bad state of health, to close our business either by selling or stopping the
                    press, they may perhaps be waiting until we have done the latter, with the expectation of obtaining
                    the press and other materials of this office, for a mere song, as the saying is." He
                    cautioned potential buyers that if they were thinking of getting the printing office at a bargain
                    price "They will find themselves as much mistaken as we have been on the presidential
                        question—for we have given them our lowest terms, under any
                        circumstances."97 Since the electoral college vote was still
                    two weeks away, "presidential question" undoubtedly referred to Jocelyn's
                    controversial interview with James Brown Ray.
            There still were no takers. Jocelyn then terminated the gazette. At the end of February or the
                    beginning of March, 1829, Jocelyn and J. W. Holland98 published the first issue
                    of the Western Agriculturalist and General Intelligencer. Announcements of the
                    publication's founding were made in several Indiana papers, among them the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    
                    Palladium, whose item was copied 
                  
                     94
                     
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Indiana Palladium, June 21, 1828.
                  
                     95Quoted in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 10, 1828.
                  
                     96See Riker and Thornbrough, Indiana Election
                            Returns, 140–41; James H. Madison, The Indiana Way: A State
                                History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1986), 133–34.
                  
                     97
                     
                                Brookville
                            
                            
                        
                                    Franklin
                                 Repository, November 19, 1828.
                  
                     98
                     Atlas of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , 96.
               
                     by the 
                        Centerville
                    
                    Western Times and to which the Times's editor, Septimus
                    Smith, added a cheerful note: 
                        
                     Renewal.—We take pleasure in announcing the reappearance of the 
                                Brookville
                             paper, under the title of "The Western Agriculturist and
                                General Intelligencer," and in a pamphlet form of 16 pages. From its title
                            we would infer that it is to be devoted principally to agriculture; and judging from the
                            editorial matter, which runs much on the propagation of horses and horse bills, and the
                            acknowledged talents of the editors, we have no doubt that it will be ably conducted. We
                            hope their profits may prove commensurate with their deserts.
                        [As I have not received the paper which appears by the above article recently to have
                            re-commenced in one of our neighboring counties, under a new title, with
                            all my good wishes for its success, I knew of no greater compliment I could properly pay its
                            editors, than by giving the remarks of those who seem to have examined the work …
                                ED TIMES.]99
                  
                    
                
            Apparently no copies of the Agriculturalist have survived.100
                    In mid-May, 1829, Holland quit the office.101 Six months later, Septimus Smith
                    of 
                        Centerville
                     noted in his Western Times: "Our old political and personal
                    friend, Mr. Jocelyn, has disposed of the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Agriculturalist—and though his age & past service, should
                    exempt him from the further cares and labours of a printing office, we cannot take our final leave
                    of one who has stood with us since our first commencement as an editor, without some emotions of
                    sentimental regret." In the same issue, this comment by Smith appears: 
                        
                     Two more papers.—We have before us proposals for two more new
                            papers, to be commenced in a short time, in this State—one to be published by W.
                            R. Morris, and B. S. Noble, Esqrs. at 
                                Brookville
                            , and to be entitled The 
                                    Franklin
                                 Cadet. The other, to be published by Milton Gregg, Esq. at 
                                Lawrenceburgh
                            , and to be entitled The Western Statesman, and Agricultural
                                Register.
                     102
                  
                    
                
            Morris and Noble were young 
                        Franklin County
                     lawyers. As far as is known their Cadet never materialized,
                    suggesting that the two men may have been in negotiations with Jocelyn for the purchase of his
                    printing office. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal noted the proposed Cadet and the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     weekly, as well as plans for sheets in other communities (including a rumor about a
                    third paper in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ). Douglass Maguire, editor of the Journal, was not amused:
                    "Newspapers, well conducted, are an incalculable 
                  
                     99
                     
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Palladium (n.d.), quoted in 
                                Centerville
                            
                            Western Times, March 21, 1829.
                  
                     100 The paper seems to have confused bibliographers; it is listed as a
                            serial in Winifred Gregory, Union List of Serials in Libraries of the 
                                    United States
                                 and 
                                    Canada
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1927, 1517, but as a newspaper in her later work, American
                                Newspapers, 1821–1936: A Union List of Files Available in the 
                                    United States
                                 and 
                                    Canada
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 146. The Library of Congress is the only archive cited by Gregory and
                            later bibliographers as holding the publication, but searches produced no copies.
                  
                     101
                     Atlas of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , 96.
                  
                     102
                     
                                Centerville
                            
                            Western Times, November 21, 1829.
               
                     benefit to the country, and deserve, to a greater extent than
                    is generally afforded them, the countenance and support of the community. Notwithstanding this, we
                    are firmly persuaded that the rage for establishing newspapers is too great, and will, we fear, be
                    an injury to the public, to the individuals immediately concerned, and to the character and
                    respectability of the press."103
            
            If one 
                        Franklin County
                     source is correct, the Agriculturalist held on for several more
                    issues before Jocelyn terminated it, which may have been with an issue dated February 13, 1830.104 On February 24, the Indiana Journal noted
                    Jocelyn's retirement: 
                        Exceptions may have been taken at times to the course this gentleman pursued as an editor,
                            where society is constituted as is ours,—with what justice it is not our purpose
                            to inquire—but it is no less due to the purity of his principles than to his
                            integrity of purpose to say, that he has evinced an inflexible regard to principle, even
                            where it is known to have conflicted with personal predilection …. We trust that
                            he may meet a more liberal reward, in whatever business he may in future engage, than we
                            fear attended him in his late vocation.105
                  
                     Jocelyn sold his equipment to Gregg. The printing press and type were hauled by freight
                    wagon to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     where Gregg started the Western Statesman in March, 1830. He dressed
                    his weekly with new type and in April advertised for sale "150 to 200 lbs of Small Pica
                    type, about half worn. If carefully worked it will last and make a fair impression, for four to five
                        years."106 It is possible this type was that which Scott and Ogle
                    clicked into their composing sticks as they set copy for the Plain Dealer.
                    
                        Franklin County
                     was without a newspaper until January 4, 1833, when William Seal & Company
                    restarted the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Inquirer. Charles Hutchen, co-owner of the first Inquirer, was
                        editor.107
            
            The pioneer phase of 
                        Brookville
                    's printing history was past, as it was elsewhere in Indiana. The ink-stained,
                    cranky wood press was being replaced by the less contrary iron press, and although the early iron
                    presses operated on the same principle as the Ramage, they were welcomed by printers whose common
                    occupational complaint was sore back and arms. "I have just come from the printing
                    office," wrote the editor of 
                        Posey County
                    's New-Harmony Gazette in 1825, "where Mr. [Thomas]
                    Palmer is working off one side of the paper. He has an elegant new Super-royal press of the kind
                    called the Stansbury press, which requires less than one third 
                  
                     103
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, December 3, 1829.
                  
                     104
                     Atlas of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , 96.
                  
                     105
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, February 24, 1830.
                  
                            106
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     107 Hutchen was among the most indefatigable pioneer editors and
                            printers that passed through 
                                Franklin County
                            . He later was associated with ventures in 
                                New Albany
                            , 
                                Aurora
                            , 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            , and 
                                Evansville
                            . In 1851 he returned to 
                                Kentucky
                             to found the Henderson Democratic Banner, later renamed the
                                Reporter. Around 1858, he retired.
               
                     of the strength necessary for working the common [wood]
                    screw-press … the labor of pulling the bar is comparatively nothing."108
            
            The emergence of Andrew Jackson's democracy broke the hold of the aristocracy on American
                    politics. As a consequence, journalism and politics split into separate camps with journalism
                    becoming a separate profession.109 The editorial contents of many newspapers
                    began to undergo a change, emphasizing the local and human interest aspects of news.110 The printer no longer was concerned with what to put into the news
                    columns—the responsibility now went to editors and reporters.
            And so the pioneer period ended. The early printers of 
                        Brookville
                    —indeed, all the early printers of Indiana and others with whom they shared
                    the frontier—had struggled against all adversities. They persevered. James Green, a
                    biographer of Indiana Territory's first governor, perhaps stated their victory best:
                    "The debt which the Middle West owes to its early printers and to its circuit riders and to
                    the men who established schools and insisted on the three R's, is beyond calculation. Those
                    were the men who kept alive the burning torch of inspiration, who added to life the finer and better
                    things, the larger outlook and the wider hopes, which has put a great gulf between the country
                    people of this continent and the peasantry of Europe."111
            
            
               
                  108Harlow Lindley, ed., Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers: A
                            Collection of Reprints from Books of Travel, Letters and Diaries Prior to 1830 (Indiana
                            Historical Collections, Vol. III; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916), 384.
               
                  109Charles H. Levermore, "The Rise of Metropolitan Journalism,
                        1800–1840," American Historical Review, VI (April, 1901),
                        451–52.
               
                  110Frank Luther Mott, American Journalism (1941; 
                            New York
                        , 1950), 228–52.
               
                  111James A. Green, William Henry Harrison: His Life and
                        Times (
                            Richmond
                        , Va., 1941), 97–98.
            
         
         
         
            "Blocks of Five" Dudley, Cartoon Celebrity
            Roger A. Fischer∗
            
            Surely one of the lesser lights of Indiana's political tradition, William Wade Dudley
                    rescued himself from complete obscurity by one momentous indiscretion. In October, 1888, Dudley
                    wrote a circular letter to Indiana Republican leaders urging them to carry the state for native son
                    Benjamin Harrison by organizing "floaters" (nonaligned individuals available to
                    the highest bidder), into "blocks of five." The ill-advised letter provoked an
                    ugly controversy during the closing days of the election and introduced into the vernacular the
                    terms floater and blocks of five as synonyms for electoral
                    sleaze. For a season Dudley was an albatross for Harrison and the Republicans and a celebrated
                    bogeyman among opposition Democrats. In one forum in particular, the cartoon art of Joseph
                    Keppler's Puck, Dudley became a reigning symbol of Republican iniquity,
                    and for the duration of Harrison's term Dudley, blocks of five, and floaters served as
                    ubiquitous reminders of his tainted victory over Keppler favorite Grover Cleveland.
            Born in 
                        Vermont
                     on August 27, 1842, Dudley attended Phillips Academy and Russell's Collegiate
                    Institute, 
                        New Haven
                    , and settled in 1860 in 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana. Commissioned a captain in Indiana's Nineteenth Volunteer Regiment in
                    1861, Dudley led troops in combat at Second Manassas, South Mountain, Antietam, Chancellorsville,
                    and Gettysburg, where an injury required amputation of his right leg. After serving out the war as
                    an army judge-advocate, Colonel Dudley came home to 
                        Richmond
                     to practice law and work as a clerk of court and as a cashier of the 
                        Richmond
                     Savings Bank. His personality, combat record, missing leg, and penchant for
                    "bloody shirt" oratory made him popular among veterans and increasingly
                    influential in Republican politics as a minion 
                  
                     ∗Roger A. Fischer is professor and chair of the History
                            Department and director of American Studies at the University of 
                        Minnesota-Duluth
                     . He is a student of American political culture
                            specializing in late nineteenth-century political cartoon art.
               
                     of Oliver P. Morton. Appointed 
                        United States
                     marshal for Indiana in 1879, he played a prominent role in the prosecution of Democrats
                    for campaign irregularities in 1878 and two years later in the campaign of James A. Garfield, who in
                    1881 named Dudley 
                        United States
                     commissioner of pensions. He headed the Pensions Bureau until resigning in the wake of
                    Cleveland's 1884 victory and won praise for reforms that streamlined claims processing. In
                    1884 Dudley enjoyed some support among Indiana Republicans for the governorship but ultimately
                    decided to remain in 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , to practice law. In 1888 Harrison chose him as his personal representative on the
                    Republican National Committee (RNC). He quickly became treasurer and for two years unwittingly
                    immortalized floaters in blocks of five. He later practiced law in 
                        Washington
                     with Indiana native Louis T. Michener until his death on December 15, 1909.1
            
            Contemporary assessments, discounting the hyperbole of friends and foes in the wake of
                    Dudley's blocks-of-five gaffe, provide a portrait of an engaging and personally honorable
                    man whose intensely combative partisan zeal brought him to the brink of criminality. "A
                    thorough gentleman, upright in all his business and professional relations," Matilda
                    Gresham wrote of him, but "in politics he believed the end justified the means."
                    As a banker and lawyer in 
                        Richmond
                     and later even at the helm of the scandal-plagued Bureau of Pensions, he earned a
                    reputation for relative probity. As a political campaign operative, however, his reputation was
                    unsavory. "In the effective use of money for purchaseable votes," wrote defeated
                    1880 Democratic gubernatorial candidate 
                        Franklin
                     Landers, "there is no man in the country superior to Colonel Dudley."
                    As historian H. Wayne Morgan has written, "If Dudley had a motto, it was ‘Vote
                    early and often.’ He was familiar in circles that counted
                    ‘persuasion’ more salutary than propaganda, and he did not shrink from the
                    two-dollar bill that took ‘floaters’ to the voting booth."2
            
            Dudley was well versed in such "competitive bidding" in 1880 and was certain that
                    paid floater votes had carried Indiana for the 
                  
                     1
                     The National Cyclopaedia of American
                            Biography…, see under William Wade Dudley. This work provides a detailed
                            summary of his life but little information on his political activity. See also 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, October 31, 1888; New York World, November 15,
                            1888; Matilda Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin Gresham,
                            1832–1895 (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), II, 472–83, 601; Harry J. Sievers, Benjamin
                                Harrison, Hoosier Statesman: From the Civil War to the White House,
                            1865–1888 (
                                New York
                            , 1959), 173–74, 197–98, 205, 209–10,
                            302–303, 350–51, 377–78, 393; Harry J. Sievers, Benjamin Harrison, Hoosier President: The White House Years and After (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 127, 149; Matthew Josephson, The Politicos,
                                1865–1896 (
                                New York
                            , 1938), 299, 360, 422–23; and H. Wayne Morgan, From
                                Hayes to McKinley: National Party Politics, 1877–1896
                                    (
                        Syracuse, N.Y.
                     , 1969), 115, 311–12.
                  
                     2Gresham, Life of Gresham, II, 478; Leonard D.
                            White, The Republican Era, 1869–1901: A Study in Administrative
                                History (
                                New York
                            , 1958), 210–21; Josephson, The Politicos, 423;
                            Morgan, From Hayes to McKinley, 311.
               
                     Democrats in 1884. After hearing reports in 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , of a dead heat in Indiana, he responded on October 24, 1888, with the circular letter
                    to GOP leaders back home to urge preemptive measures: "Divide the floaters into blocks of
                    five, put a trusted man with the necessary funds in charge of these five and make him responsible
                    that none get away and that all vote our ticket." Democratic officials secured a copy from
                    a curious railroad clerk, and the closing days of the 1888 campaign were dominated by charges and
                    countercharges over Dudley's rash dictum. While Democratic speakers and newspapers
                    exploited his indiscretion, Dudley and other Republicans ingenuously declared the letter a forgery
                    and threatened retaliatory lawsuits, and an angry and thoroughly embarrassed Harrison moved to
                    distance himself and his campaign from the furor and from his old friend and lieutenant.
                    Nevertheless, "Blocks of Five" Dudley reigned improbably as an American political
                        celebrity.3
            
            Despite the uproar, Dudley was patently no pioneer in political chicanery. Intensely polarized and
                    almost perfectly balanced in partisan strength, "venal Indiana" was notorious
                    during this period for bitterly contested, frequently corrupt elections with miniscule margins
                    between victory and defeat, margins often secured with the votes of nonresident or irregular
                    floaters at two to five dollars each. In a perceptive and persuasive study of the Dudley scandal,
                    historian James L. Baumgardner has argued that aggressive but surreptitious pursuit of the floater
                    vote, while simultaneously accusing the opposition of similar conduct, was standard practice for
                    both parties in Gilded Age Indiana. Moreover, Baumgardner's analysis of the 1888 returns
                    indicates that all but five Indiana counties voted altogether typically and that Democratic success
                    in 
                        Marion County
                     balanced abnormally high Republican turnouts in Carroll, Whitley, Ripley, and Perry
                    counties, which effectively dismisses the possibility that Dudley's missive held the key to
                    Harrison's 1888 Indiana margin. Concludes Baumgardner, Dudley's cardinal sin was
                    one of indiscretion, a violation of the code of silence on the commission of corrupt practices:
                    "It was one thing to be involved in corrupt practices; it was another to ‘rub it
                    in’ by seemingly openly advocating their use."4
            
            
               
                  3 For informative discussions of the blocks-of-five scandal, see Sievers,
                            Hoosier Statesman, 417–23; Josephson, The
                            Politicos, 430–33; Morgan, From Hayes to McKinley,
                        311–12; and Eugene H. Roseboom, A History of Presidential
                        Elections, (rev. ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1964), 282–83.
               
                  4 James L. Baumgardner, "The 1888 Presidential Election: How
                        Corrupt?" Presidential Studies Quarterly, XIV (Summer, 1984),
                        416–27. For other studies casting doubt on the purported importance of fraud in
                        determining Gilded Age elections, see Richard Jensen, The Winning of the Midwest:
                            Social and Political Conflict, 1888–1896 (
                            Chicago
                        , 1971), 35–36; Paul Kleppner and Stephen C. Baker, "The Impact
                        of Voter Registration Requirements on Electoral Turnout, 1900–16,"
            
            
            Whatever its configuration, Dudley's transgression continued to occupy the American
                    political limelight for more than two months in the wake of Harrison's narrow victory. It
                    was only after Dudley's blatant threat to "explode a lot of dynamite" on
                    GOP campaign machinations if made a scapegoat that frantic Republican topsiders quashed a pending
                    federal indictment for campaign fraud. By now a pariah of gargantuan proportions in administration
                    circles, Dudley managed to cling stubbornly to his position as RNC treasurer under Matthew Quay for
                    two more years until new allegations of unethical activities finally prompted his resignation, but
                    long before his eventual departure from the national political stage he had faded back into
                    obscurity as a public figure.5
            
            A noted exception to Dudley's rapid fade into oblivion was the cartoon art of Joseph
                    Keppler. His Puck was the leading dime illustrated humor weekly magazine of its
                    day and a stalwart champion of the defeated Grover Cleveland. Initiated in 
                        New York
                     in 1876 by the Austrian-born Keppler as a German-language venture patterned upon the
                    famed 
                        London
                     publication Punch, Puck made an English-language debut a year later
                    and rapidly revolutionized the medium of American political cartooning. In contrast to the stark
                    black-and-white style and strident dogmatism of the legendary but fading Harper's Weekly pioneer Thomas Nast, Keppler and his Puck
                    lieutenants endowed their lithographed cover and centerfold cartoons with rainbow coloration, wry
                    tongue-in-cheek Viennese levity, and an affinity for elaborate scenes featuring caricatures by the
                    dozens. Keppler's cartoons exhibited in abundance what Nast's most conspicuously
                    lacked: a sense of humor that chided rather than condemned. Targets were cast not as Satanic
                    monsters but as droll grotesqueries, as barnyard animals or vegetables or as men clothed in female
                    finery, or even in such mildly risqué roles as ladies of the evening or pregnant brides.
                    As circulation and profit soared, Puck's success begat a host of
                    imitators; 
                  
                     Journal of Political and Military Sociology, VIII (Fall, 1980),
                            205–26; and Howard W. Allen and Kay Warren Allen, "Vote Fraud and Data
                            Validity," in Jerome M. Clubb, William H. Flanigan, and Nancy H. Zingale, eds., Analyzing Electoral History: A Guide to the Study of American Voter
                            Behavior (
                        Beverly Hills, Calif.
                     , 1981), 155, 167, 179. The
                            general phenomenon of purchasing votes during this period is discussed in Genevieve B. Gist,
                            "Progressive Reform in a Rural Community: The 
                                Adams County
                             Vote-Fraud Case," 
                        Mississippi Valley
                                Historical Review, XLVIII (June, 1961), 60–78; and John Reynolds,
                            "The ‘Silent Dollar’: Vote Buying in 
                                New Jersey
                            ," 
                        
                                    New Jersey
                                 History, XCVIII (Fall-Winter, 1980), 191–211. Useful as a
                            synthesis of recent scholarship is Peter H. Argersinger, "New Perspectives on
                            Election Fraud in the Gilded Age," Political Science Quarterly, C
                            (Winter, 1985–1986), 669–87.
                  
                     5 Gresham, Life of Gresham, II, 604–18,
                            provides a detailed account of efforts to indict Dudley and machinations to avert it.
                            Information on Dudley's subsequent ethical lapse may be found in Sievers, Hoosier President, 200.
               
                     chief among the survivors was the Republican-oriented Judge (
                        New York
                    ) and Wasp (
                        San Francisco
                    ).6
            
            Although Puck was born politically independent, its cartoons always represented
                    Keppler's abiding disdain for political organization in general and political corruption in
                    particular. He rivaled Nast in his hatred of 
                        New York
                    's notorious Tammany Hall, and on the national stage his favored foils were the
                    Ulysses S. Grant-Roscoe Conklin "Stalwart" Republicans and the various Bourbon
                    Democratic regimes of the South. Since the emergence of Grover Cleveland as a force in national
                    politics, however, Keppler had come increasingly to link political sleaze with Republican
                    opposition. For Keppler and other Cleveland loyalists, paid floaters in Indiana and
                    "colonial tramps" in 
                        New York
                     City provided a less painful rationale for defeat than did the reality that their party
                    had been thoroughly out-campaigned. For men of such mindset "Blocks of Five"
                    Dudley provided a precious resource in an ongoing campaign to vilify the Harrison presidency until
                    they could exact revenge in 1892.
            Dudley had begun his odyssey toward political infamy too late for Keppler to exploit as a cartoon
                    convention during the campaign, but in the four years that followed Puck artists
                    featured him with regularity, along with floaters and blocks of five, as generic symbols of
                    Republican corruption. Dudley's debut in the medium came in the Puck
                    centerfold "Uncle Sam's Thanksgiving 
                        Turkey
                    " of November 28, 1888, in which Uncle Sam was portrayed with a sumptuous 
                        turkey
                     that represented the treasury surplus under seige by such unsavory Republican
                    "hungry patriots" as Dudley, machine kingpins Thomas Collier Platt and Matt Quay,
                    and Star Route scandal culprits Stephen W. Dorsey and Thomas J. Brady. Keppler's January 9,
                    1889, centerfold, "The Woods are Full of Them," included Dudley among the many
                    Republican luminaries and rogues eyed for positions in the new administration by Harrison through
                    his spyglass. Although Keppler's caricature resembled Dudley in facial features, it
                    portrayed him standing on two sound legs, which was unusual after the prominence given by Dudley and
                        
                  
                     6 Richard Samuel West, Satire on Stone: The Political
                                Cartoons of Joseph Keppler (
                        Urbana,
                                    Ill.
                      1988), provides a wealth of
                            information and insights on Keppler's life and art. Of value as well is
                                Draper Hill, "What Fools We Mortals Be: A Study of the
                            Work of Joseph Keppler, Founder of Puck " (A.B. thesis, Harvard
                            College, 1957). See also Stephen Hess and Milton Kaplan, The Ungentlemanly Art:
                                A History of American Political Cartoons (
                                New York
                            , 1968), 102–17, and Charles Press, The Political
                                Cartoon (
                        Rutherford, N.J.
                     , 1981), 254–59.
                            Individual studies of Dudley contemporaries as cartoon conventions include Samuel J. Thomas,
                            "The Tattooed Man Caricatures and the Presidential Campaign of 1884," Journal of American Culture, X (Winter, 1987), 1–20; Roger A.
                            Fischer, "William Windom: Cartoon Centerfold, 1881–91," 
                        
                                    Minnesota
                                 History, LI (Fall, 1988), 99–109; and Roger A. Fischer,
                            "Rustic Rasputin: William A. Peffer in Color Cartoon Art,
                            1891–1899," 
                        
                                    Kansas
                                 History, XI (Winter, 1988–1989), 222–39.
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from Puck, XXIV (January 9, 1889), 330–31.
               
                    
                  Reproduced from Puck, XXIV (January 16, 1889), 346–47.
               
                     others to the right leg lost at 
                        Gettysburg
                    . The first Puck cartoon to truly feature him, again on two healthy
                    legs, was C. Jay Taylor's centerfold of January 16, 1889, "When Harrison Sounds
                    that ‘Bugle Call’—the Friends of a Pure Ballot Will
                    Rally—As Above." Depicted were Dudley and his scroll—"Work
                    the Floaters in Blocks of Five"—representing satirical symbols of Republican
                    electoral purity; Quay with a barrel of campaign fund "fat," presumably fried from
                    protectionist industrialists to aid Harrison's cause; and prominent 
                        Philadelphia
                     retailer and Harrison fundraiser John Wanamaker, with his $400,000
                        moneybag.7
            
            As Harrison's government began to take shape, Dudley continued to grace Puck cartoons with regularity, in company with a cast of party regulars who tilted somewhat
                    toward the disreputable. A Keppler centerfold portrayed Dudley feasting upon a banquet of patronage
                    delicacies, and a Taylor cartoon featured him in Union officer's attire lined up with Quay,
                    Platt, and kindred souls under a White House sign "Promoters of Political Bribery Rewarded
                    Here." A Louis Dalrymple centerfold, while not picturing Dudley, included a circus
                    stepladder with one rung inscribed "Floaters in Blocks of Five." Another Keppler
                    centerfold, "The Triumph of Boodle," cast Dudley as a Roman centurion marching
                    alongside a bloated moneybags representation of Boodle, as another reveler held up a block-of-five
                    parade standard. Such color cartoons, which were all efforts to establish Dudley as a key player in
                    the new regime, surely reflected reality less than did Taylor's February 27 black-and-white
                    drawing "A Bad Dream—After the Ball." The cartoon depicted a Harrison
                    nightmare—an advancing mob of floaters inside blocks of five.8
            
            It soon became obvious that Harrison, whose prickly propriety intensified after attaining the
                    presidency, had no place in his heart or his administration for his former cohort, who had first
                    imperiled his victory and then threatened naked political extortion to evade indictment. Frederick
                    Burr Opper's May 15 Puck centerfold, "Going Back on the
                    ‘Blocks of Five,’" lampooned Dudley's pariah status superbly
                    through a parody of William Shakespeare's Richard III. Harrison as
                    Richard proclaimed, "Thou troublest me. I am not in thy vein!" Dudley was the
                    rejected Buckingham who responded, "And is it thus? Repays he my true service with such
                    contempt? Made I him King for this?"
            
            Still another Puck commentary two weeks later referred to "the unspeakable
                    Dudley, who may not dine at the White House," a theme sustained in a Taylor cartoon
                    featuring Dudley and other 
                  
                     7
                            Puck, XXIV (November 28, 1888), 216–17; ibid.
                            (January 9, 1889), 330–31; Ibid. (January 16, 1889),
                            346–47.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid. (February 20, 1889), 426-27; ibid., XXV (February
                            27, 1889), 2; ibid. (March 20, 1889), 49; ibid. (April
                            10, 1889), 104-105; ibid. (April 17, 1889), 120-21.
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from Puck, XXV (February 27, 1889), 2.
                outcasts shivering in a cold downpour while Harrison and his favorites kept dry under an
                    umbrella of "Administration Patronage." Dudley's persona non
                        grata status was echoed in Bernhard Gillam's May 25 Judge
                    centerfold, "The Political 
                        Oklahoma
                    ," which cast Dudley, Quay, Benjamin Butler, and other administration rejects
                    as disappointed "boomers" drifting back east empty-handed. One of only two Judge cartoons to feature Dudley, it followed the Puck practice
                    of depicting him with two healthy legs.9
            
            
               Puck adopted a have-one's-cake-and-eat-it-too approach to Dudley
                    cartooning: it laughed at his banishment and yet continued through 1889 to portray him as an
                    administration mainstay. A Dalrymple centerfold parodied the Eiffel Tower with an "Awful
                    Tower" of Republican corruption; Harrison rested at the summit upon the shoulders of Dudley
                    and Quay. In other cartoons Dalrymple drew Dudley as an anti-civil service African native, as a
                    Harrison protectionist reveler indifferent to the suffering of unemployed factory workers, as a
                    worshiper of 
                        Virginia
                     GOP kingpin William Mahone, and as part of a "Blocks of Five Scandal"
                    bundle of dirty laundry with Platt, Wanamaker, and Quay. Keppler featured him with other unsavory
                    Republican rogues and special interests that forced a perspiring Harrison to churn out jobs from a
                    patronage mill for party heelers and Grand Army of the Republic "boys in blue."
                    Opper drew him as a sidewalk carnival shill trying to gull Uncle Sam into buying a ticket to the
                    "Great Republican Moral Show."10
            
            More in keeping with Dudley's diminished status in administration and Republican party
                    circles, however, were Puck efforts commencing in December, 1889, to endow the
                    blocks of five with a more autonomous identity as a graphic symbol of GOP sleaze 
                  
                     9
                            Ibid. XXV (May 15, 1889), 208; ibid. (May 29, 1889),
                            226; ibid. (June 5, 1889), 256; Judge, XVI (May 25,
                            1889), 112-13.
                  
                     10
                            Puck, XXV (July 31, 1889), 384-85; ibid. (August 21,
                            1889), 432-33; ibid., XXVI (September 4, 1889), 24-25; ibid. (September 18, 1889), 56-57; ibid. (September 25, 1889), 82;
                                ibid. (November 20, 1889), 210; ibid. (November 27,
                            1889), 218-19.
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from Puck, XXV (May 15, 1889), 208.
               
                    
                  Reproduced from Puck, XXVI (January 22, 1890), 382.
               
                     independent of its creator. Hence Dudley was separated from his
                    "blocks," and in some instances, they were linked directly to innocent parties
                    with more exalted standing in official circles. Especially victimized in this manner was Postmaster
                    General Wanamaker. Although a veritable pillar of probity, Wanamaker was apparently offensive to
                    Keppler, perhaps because of his fund-raising skills, mercantile background, 
                        Philadelphia
                     roots, and ostentatious display of evangelical piety. A Taylor cartoon portrayed
                    Wanamaker pasting a Republican party elephant, head to foot, with broadside ads that imitated his
                    legendary drygoods promotions, including "Blocks of Five for Children." Similarly,
                    Dudley was not included with Wanamaker and others who were trying to keep a "Blocks of Five
                    Scandal" skeleton confined in a "Republican Family Closet." Appropriately
                    enough, Dalrymple's January 22, 1890, cartoon was entitled, "They Can't
                    Keep Him Hid!" A Keppler centerfold depicting the admission of new states as a picnic
                    featured a box of "Blocks of Five Cigars" but not Dudley himself. A savage Keppler
                    centerfold that castigated braying holier-than-thou jackasses Wanamaker and purity gadfly Anthony
                    Comstock (for Comstock's attempt to ban a Leo Tolstoy volume from the federal mail)
                    utilized a Wanamaker emporium backdrop and featured such specials as the volume How to
                        Make a President, by W. W. Dudley, and Wanamaker's "Patented Pictorial
                    Blocks of Five (to teach the alphabet of political morality)."11
            
            While the blocks of five were taking on a separate symbolic identity in 1890 Puck
                    cartoons, Dudley remained in his own right a useful convention for Keppler and his artists. One
                    Keppler centerfold cast Dudley with Harrison, Wanamaker, Quay, and others as crewmen throwing
                    overboard the ballast of morality and reform ideas to lighten the load of the foundering clipper
                    ship Grand Old Party. Dudley's utility as a generic symbol of campaign
                    fraud grew even more attractive as the 1890 congressional contests neared. Taylor's
                    September 17 centerfold, "A Monument of Scandals," creatively caricatured the
                    Harrison administration as a human tower of corruption. The cartoon included Dudley holding a
                    figural block-of-five with the heads of a quintet of floaters. A Dalrymple centerfold that featured
                    long columns of farmers parading for tariff reduction placed Dudley in a protectionist balcony with
                    Harrison, Wanamaker, Quay, William McKinley, and others. Such efforts continued even after
                    Republicans lost control of Congress in 1890 and were put on the defensive for 1892. The October 28,
                    1891, Keppler cartoon, "Sizing It Up," featured Cleveland eyeing
                    Harrison's 
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., XXVI (December 11, 1889), 286; ibid. (January 22,
                            1890), 382; ibid., XXVII (July 23, 1890), 352–53; ibid. (August 20, 1890), 416–17.
               
                     throne while resting upon a pedestal of party corruption held
                    up in part by Wanamaker, Dudley, and five numbered blocks.12
            
            By this time, however, Dudley was beginning to provoke the interest of cartoonists less for his old
                    indiscretions intended to elect Harrison in 1888 than for his new activities aimed at dumping him in
                    1892. Michener's unstinting efforts to reconcile his two close friends had not borne fruit,
                    and during the winter of 1890–1891 another incident had foreclosed any possibility of
                    such an event. Dudley, it seems, had purchased three acres of reclaimed swampland in 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , and immediately tripled his investment by selling the land for the new Government
                    Printing Office—all done at the assent of Secretary of the Treasury William Windom.
                    Alerted to the potential of a new Dudley scandal by Attorney General William H. H. Miller, Harrison
                    enlisted George Frisbee Hoar of 
                        Massachusetts
                     and Preston B. Plumb of 
                        Kansas
                     to annul the deal in the Senate after branding Dudley's venture in debate
                    "a little fishy" and exhibiting "certain badges of fraud."
                    Concurrently, Harrison finally secured the resignations of Dudley as RNC treasurer and Quay as RNC
                    chairman; the latter was an even greater embarrassment in the wake of a felony indictment for misuse
                    of public funds. The housecleaning did not come without cost to Harrison, however. Dudley and Quay
                    were soon working actively with Platt, Russell A. Alger, and J. Donald Cameron as leaders of an
                    anybody-but-Harrison movement for 1892.13
            
            Initial recognition of Dudley's apostasy came not in Puck but in Judge in a September, 1891, 
                        Grant Hamilton
                     centerfold casting Dudley, Quay, Alger, and Joseph Pulitzer as jackasses pestering
                    James G. Blaine. Keppler's immediate response was to avoid taking sides in a Republican
                    family squabble but instead to utilize the union of Dudley and Quay as a merger of corruptionists
                    symbolic of the party's endemic ethical shortcomings. A panel in an Opper Thanksgiving
                    centerfold featured convicted 
                        Philadelphia
                     city treasurer "Honest John" Beardsley with the whimsical blessing,
                    "Quay and Dudley are still at large, it is true—but we've got
                    Bardsley!" The December 9, 1891, Taylor cartoon, "A Hustling Competitor,"
                    portrayed 
                        New York
                     Governor David B. Hill, one Democrat Keppler loathed as if he had been Republican,
                    entering the business of stealing state elections across an alley from the dominant concern in the
                    trade, the firm of "Quay, Dudley & Co. State Stealers."14
            
            
               
                  12
                        Ibid., XXVII (May 21, 1890), 200–201; ibid.,
                        XXVIII (September 17, 1890), 56–57; ibid. (October 22, 1890),
                        136–37; ibid. (November 26, 1890), 224; ibid.
                        (February 4, 1891), 412; ibid., XXX (October 28, 1891), 145.
               
                  13 See Sievers, Hoosier President, 200; George Harmon
                        Knoles, The Presidential Campaign and Election of 1892 (
                            Stanford
                         University, 
                            Calif.
                        , 1942), 36.
               
                  14
                        Judge, XXI (September 12, 1891), 374–75; Puck,
                        XXX (November 25, 1891), 216–17; ibid. (December 9, 1891),
                    269.
            
            
            
               Reproduced from Puck, XXVIII (September 17, 1890), 56–57.
            
            
            
               "THE GREAT REPUBLICAN BLUFF "
               REPRODUCED FROM
                        PUCK
                  , XXXII (OCTOBER 5, 1892),
                        104–105.
            
            As the 1892 campaign unfolded, however, Puck managed to malign both Blaine and
                    Harrison with the onus of Dudley and Quay. The latter pair were portrayed in a Keppler centerfold
                    among the "Ancient Order of Blainiacs" pushing their champion into the fray in a
                    wheelchair. A black-and-white cartoon drawn by Keppler's son Udo featured Dudley, Quay,
                    James S. Clarkson, and Joseph B. Foraker as assassins lurking with daggers behind White House
                    pillars for an assault on Harrison. Puck solicitude toward Harrison was short
                    lived, however, for once he became the Republican standard-bearer for 1892, cartoon after cartoon
                    down the homestretch vilified him as master of spoils statecraft and the beneficiary of campaign
                    corruption exemplified by "Blocks of Five" Dudley. A Keppler centerfold parody
                    upon Jean Louis Ernest Meissonier's painting The Last Review depicted
                    Harrison on a wooden hobbyhorse reviewing a loyal army of protected trusts, corrupt lobbyists and
                    pension agents, tariff-fattened tycoons, and men identified by their banner as "Floaters in
                    Blocks of Five." An October 5 Dalrymple centerfold, "The Great Republican
                    Bluff," featured Harrison sanctimoniously proclaiming the GOP a "party of purity
                    and righteousness," obscuring a Republican Supremacy monument exalting King Boodle on a
                    platform held up by various figures and symbols of party infamy, including Dudley and five numbered
                        blocks.15
            
            
               
                  15
                        Puck, XXXI (June 1, 1892), 232–33; ibid. (June 8,
                        1892), 242; ibid. (August 3, 1892), 380–81; ibid., XXXII (October 5, 1892), 104–105.
            
            
            "The Great Republican Bluff" marked Dudley's final appearance as a color
                    cartoon caricature, although his legacy as founding father of blocks of five and floaters lived on
                    monochromatically for another season. An October Keppler centerfold portrayed Quay lieutenant David
                    Martin, whom the Democratic press was promoting as the Dudley of 1892, holding out for GOP pharisees
                    filing into church with a sack inscribed "Republican Fund to Buy Floaters." Puck' s other nominee for honors as 1892 "son of
                    Dudley" was Thomas H. Carter of 
                        Montana
                    , who was vulnerable as chairman of the Republican National Committee and
                    Harrison's reelection effort despite his spotless reputation. An Opper election-eve
                    centerfold cast Carter as Boodle deploying the "Republican Corruption Fund" to
                    "work blocks of five" and "to buy floaters." Several weeks after
                    the Harrison defeat, a Keppler centerfold included in the wreckage of the Republican campaign a red
                    block sporting the numeral 5.16
            
            Thus ended the legacy of William Wade Dudley and his infamous blocks of five in American political
                    cartoon art. A peripheral player at best, without the notoriety or significance of such miscreants
                    as William M. Tweed or, for a later generation, Richard M. Nixon, Dudley lacked the stature to
                    develop into an enduring, generic symbol of sleaze in American politics.17 His
                    infamy, and by implication Indiana's infamy, lasted less than four years. And yet for that
                    short season Dudley proved almost uniquely useful to Puck cartoonists eager to
                    portray his Republican party as a cesspool of spoils, special interests, and campaign corruption.
                    Keppler and his staff artists utilized many Republicans in that effort. In a majority of instances,
                    including their sustained sorties against such figures as Harrison, Carter, and Wanamaker, creative
                    character assassination was compromised by the ethical probity of the figures targeted. Even with
                    the likes of Quay, Platt, and Blaine, suspect reputations were balanced by lofty titles, positions
                    on the salient issues of the day, and in some cases by praiseworthy deeds. Dudley, however, was
                    unsullied by great honors, thoughts, or deeds. An obscure figure, his renown had come completely
                    through his advocacy of floaters deployed in blocks of five to deny the integrity of the democratic
                    process. Rarely in two centuries of American political cartooning has partisan art been afforded the
                    luxury of such a faithful imitation of life.
            
               
                  16
                        Ibid., XXXII (October 19, 1892), 140–41; ibid.
                        (November 2, 1892), 168–69; ibid. (November 30, 1892),
                        222–23; Gresham, Life of Gresham, II, 607–608; Knoles,
                            Presidential Campaign and Election of 1892, 123, 147, 205.
               
                  17 For a study of this phenomenon, see Roger A. Fischer, "The
                        Lucifer Legacy: Boss Tweed and Richard Nixon as Generic Symbols of Sleaze in American Political
                        Cartoon Art," Journal of American Culture, XIII (Summer, 1990),
                        1–20.
            
         
         
         
            
               GENE STRATTON -PORTER
               
               Courtesy Indiana State Museum, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
            
            Book Reviews
            
               Gene Stratton-Porter: Novelist and Naturalist. By Judith Reick Long. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1990. Pp. xv, 286. Illustrations, notes, select
                    bibliography, index. $19.95.)
            Indiana native Gene Stratton-Porter was the premier symbol of "nature lover" for an
                    entire generation of readers early in the twentieth century. As a popularizer of natural history for
                    the masses, she has no equal. Combining a love of storytelling inherited from her father with a
                    genuine interest in nature, she spun out best seller after best seller. She was, in fact, one of the
                    last romantic writers, an "apostle … of the Impossibly Virtuous" (p.
                    7), as one person said.
            But because she wrote neither literary nor natural history classics, she has remained in limbo,
                    ignored but not forgotten. The late Judith Reick Long, convinced that Gene
                    Stratton-Porter's influence on reshaping the national perspective toward nature was every
                    bit as powerful as that of Theodore Roosevelt's, has written the first in-depth biography
                    of this charismatic woman. The product of a thirty-five-year interest, Long's book will
                    provide an introduction to Stratton-Porter as a latent feminist, frustrated with her role in life
                    but unable to become either a focused naturalist or a literary novelist.
            "She was," Long writes, "a master of the whopper, at first assessment
                    seemingly even a victim of self-deceit, who appears to have believed the fairy tales she liked to
                    concoct about her early homelife and her supposedly harmonious family relationships. Shortcomings
                    aside, however, this consummate prevaricator emerges predominantly as a perennial child with a zest
                    for life and a boundless expectation for what she might accomplish" (p. 18).
            That said, the reader expects Long to progress beyond a mere narration of Stratton-Porter's
                    life. Yet she rarely does more than mention what Stratton-Porter did, with few attempts to analyze
                    why. For instance, why did she treat her husband so badly, finally even leaving him to move to 
                        California
                     and not even mentioning him in her will? Long, herself, seems puzzled by this, writing,
                    "How ironic. Charles Porter was the only person who ever cared enough about Gene Stratton
                    to give her what she needed most … her personal freedom" (p. 253). Granted
                    Stratton-Porter was a complex, even "unsound," person as Long says in her
                    excellent first chapter. And she may have continually doctored her own papers and interviews to
                    reflect the person she wanted to be known as  instead of the
                    person she was, making it impossible for Long to sift fact from fancy. But Long also fails to
                    convince the reader of Stratton-Porter's skills as a novelist and a naturalist. Since most
                    modern readers know little about the writer's work, Long could have spent more time
                    discussing her books and her natural history research. She seems to presume that everyone has read
                    Stratton-Porter's novels, dismissing each one—even the most
                    famous—with a sentence or two.
            Long does no better with Stratton-Porter's nonfiction books and makes little mention of Moths of the Limberlost (1912), one of Stratton-Porter's best nature
                    books. Probably that is because Long herself was no naturalist. To write a book celebrating a
                    naturalist without using the correct, popular names of the creatures, as Long does with annoying
                        frequency—i.e., "cacklers and loud honkers" (p.
                    31) instead of, one presumes, "
                        Canada
                     geese"; "wild pigeons" (p. 46) for "passenger
                    pigeons"; "indigo finch" (p. 120) rather than "indigo
                    bunting"—is to diminish the subject matter.
            In contrast, nature writer Paul Brooks, in his book Speaking for Nature (1980), is
                    able to capture Stratton-Porter's inherent love of and interest in nature and natural
                    processes with only a few well-chosen examples from her journals and books. Imagine a woman so
                    involved in her research on moths while she was writing Moths of the Limberlost
                    that she slept with a pinned cocoon close to her pillow because it was ready to emerge, according to
                    Brooks.
            Long, like her subject, seems to get caught up in fame and fortune and relegates
                    Stratton-Porter's books to numbers sold and money earned. Why did
                    Stratton-Porter's books influence the ordinary person to be interested in nature? What was
                    her expertise as a naturalist? Long never answers either question satisfactorily.
            The reader is left with the impression that Stratton-Porter was nothing more than a self-centered
                    promoter of herself, an opportunist who used nature as a metaphor for human virtue and who used
                    people, when it suited her, for her own purposes, and then tossed them aside, as she did her
                    husband, a husband Long earlier described as generously helping her in her research work in the
                    swamp, providing critiques of her writing at Stratton-Porter's request, and letting her be
                    her own person.
            But perhaps that is the conclusion Long wishes readers to reach. If so, she has succeeded admirably
                    in trivializing Stratton-Porter as a novelist and naturalist, leaving no doubt in this
                    reader's mind that neither her novels nor her nature books are worth reading and that she
                    deserves to be remembered only as an early twentieth-century phenomenon—a quintessential
                    writer of best sellers who wrote what the people wanted to read.
            MARCIA MYERS BONTA, Tyrone, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , is the author of four books on nature and over 125 magazine articles. Her two most
                    recent books, both published in the spring of 1991, are Appalachian Spring and Women in the Field: America's Pioneering Women Naturalists.
            
         
         
         
            
               Poets, Painters, Paupers, Fools: Indiana's Stein Family. By Robert C.
                    Kriebel (
                        West Lafayette
                    , Ind.: Purdue University Press, 1990. Pp. ix, 182. Illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    bibliography, index. Paperbound, $16.50.)
            Prolific journalist Robert C. Kriebel has previously written about Hoosier botanist Charles Deam and 
                        Lafayette
                     history. This volume is a collective biography of John and 
                        Virginia
                     Stein and their children, Orth and Evaleen, "four people blessed with talent
                    yet cursed with trouble" (p. 1). The book is brief, lively, and informative.
            John Stein (1832–1885), son of German immigrants, moved to 
                        Lafayette
                     from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1851. A lawyer, Civil War veteran, and state legislator, he helped acquire Purdue
                    University for 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     and then served long and well as a member of its Board of Trustees. His wife 
                        Virginia
                     (1840–1924) worked in 
                        Lafayette
                    's public library for thirty years and held the family together through many
                    financial and emotional crises.
            Both Stein children left legacies worthy of further scholarly pursuit. Orth (1862–1901)
                    was a brilliant and erratic journalist who traveled across America leaving scandals and one dead
                    body behind. He worked for newspapers in many cities from Indiana to 
                        Colorado
                     to 
                        Louisiana
                    . His life was brief, debauched, and tragic. Evaleen (1863–1923) emerged from
                    a shy and sickly youth to become an accomplished poet championed by James Whitcomb Riley. She also
                    wrote many books for children, including the very successful Little Shepherd of
                        Provence.
            
            Kriebel's book is strong on description but short on analysis. He weaves the four lives
                    together in a linear manner with scant attention to cause and motivation. He also leaves large gaps
                    about which readers can only speculate. The limited bibliography suggests that the author may not
                    have located sufficient materials to flesh out the bare bones of their lives. Kriebel quotes
                    frequently from the Stein writings, a logical technique for literary subjects. More comparison of
                    their work with that of their contemporaries would have been helpful, however. The author's
                    prose is brisk but sometimes gets overheated. His principals wallow, warble, rumble, squat, thunder,
                    buzz, trot, and rattle, and the effect is, ultimately, exhausting. Their lives were exciting enough
                    without accelerating the pace posthumously.
            With minor caveats, Kriebel's work is worthy and Indiana is richer for having a record of
                    the Steins, even this abbreviated version. Historians will lament that footnotes are in the back of
                    the book and that some of them are vague regarding locations of manuscripts cited therein. Purdue
                    University Press has done a competent job with the production: mistakes are few, illustrations are
                    generally well reproduced, and the index is adequate. For $16.50,  it would be ungracious to quibble too much about this pleasant and
                    provocative volume.
            GEORGE T. BLAKEY is professor of history at Indiana
                    University East in 
                        Richmond
                    . His study of Hoosier poet, journalist, and eccentric, Esther Griffin White, appeared
                    in the Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVI (September, 1990).
         
         
            
               Harlan Hubbard: Life and Work. By Wendell Berry. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1990. Pp. x, 108. Illustrations, notes. $23.00.)
            This book is not so much a biography as a celebration of life. It expresses the values of its author
                    as much as the values of its subject. Harlan Hubbard, student of life and artist of a beloved
                        Ohio River and rural 
                        Kentucky
                    , provides the focus for essayist Wendell Berry's latest exploration into the
                    relationships among people and environment and locality. That the two men shared many values and
                    that the younger author's view of the world was influenced by his older subject (in
                    respectful relationship rather like student and teacher) makes for an impassioned narrative artfully
                    rendered.
            Chapters stand as carefully crafted vignettes placing Hubbard into context. Here was a day laborer
                    who painted, but who also read, wrote, played the violin, took long walks through the countryside,
                    canoed and boated on the Ohio River, worked with wood as a skilled carpenter,
                    and kept bees. Hubbard, as a latter-day Henry David Thoreau, sought his own special, independent
                    relationship both with nature and with society. According to Berry, Hubbard's life
                    represented a habitual willingness to reconsider fundamentally modern society and its uses of
                    nature. "His effort was to move backward along the line of technological development toward
                    a complex practical orientation to the landscape," a course that constituted
                    "reuniting in his life many of the modern divisions of labor" (p. 28).
            Outlined are Hubbard's eccentric bachelorhood, his marriage to Anna Eikenhout (his partner
                    of forty-three years), their yearlong trip down the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     rivers to 
                        Louisiana
                     in a houseboat of their own construction, their building a house and studio on the
                    banks of the 
                        Ohio
                     at Payne Hollow (downstream and across from 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, in 
                        Kentucky
                    ), his art, and his life alone after Anna's death in 1986. Here was a
                    partnership of two extraordinary people, and if the book can be said to have a shortcoming, it is
                    that Anna, as one of the partners, seems to be made overly secondary to her husband. Together at
                    Payne Hollow they sought fully to respect its "essential dignity and integrity" as
                    a place (p. 88) through the buildings they built, the gardens they tended, and the wilder aspects of
                    nature they spared. They, not  Harlan alone, sought to take
                    "life directly and lovingly from the country, and thus to belong to it" (p. 89).
            The message is clear. Locality (and the distinctions and peculiarities of locality) counts. Familiar
                    landscapes can never be exhausted as sources of inspiration. Awareness of place can be made a
                    central focus of life.
            JOHN JAKLE is a historical geographer at the University of 
                        Illinois
                     at Urbana-Champaign. He has published numerous books and articles across a variety of
                    subjects—travel and tourism, the American small town, common houses as a vernacular form,
                    visualization of landscape, and the Ohio Valley as a region.
         
         
            
               Thomas Hart Benton: Artist, Writer, and Intellectual. Edited by R. Douglas Hurt
                    and Mary K. Dains. ([
                        Columbia
                    ]: State Historical Society of 
                        Missouri
                    , 1989. Pp. xv, 224. Illustrations, notes, suggested readings, index. Paperbound,
                    $22.95.)
            Published on the centennial of Thomas Hart Benton's birth, this collection of eight essays
                    ranges in style from erudite to chatty and in content from psychohistory to personal reminiscences,
                    all devoted to the substance and interpretations of Benton's major murals, but not to his
                    artistic style. As such, the book provides little basic biographical information, except for the
                    discussion of Benton's "rejection of modernism and the left," a rejection
                    based upon a Freudian interpretation of the artist's relationship with his father (p. xii).
            However, the essays are provocative enough to arouse the interest of some readers, making them want
                    to pursue one of the biographical works available on Benton or one of Benton's
                    autobiographies: An Artist in America, originally published in 1937 and reissued
                    in 1951 and 1968, each time with a new chapter, and An American in Art, in 1969.
                    Elizabeth Schultz's essay is devoted to these works, which she calls Benton's
                    "Song of Himself." Other essays include discussion of the religious themes in his
                    works; his 
                        New York
                     years, when he vaunted regionalism as "affirmative of the social explorations
                    of American society" (p. 211), before he returned to the Midwest; his series of murals in
                    the statehouse in 
                        Missouri
                    ; and the pro—World War II mural series, Year of Peril.
            
            Of most interest to Indiana readers is Benton's A Social History of the State
                        of Indiana, a mural series done for the 1933 Century of Progress Exhibition in 
                        Chicago
                     and now in three different locations on the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus of Indiana University. Citing Benton's depictions of fur traders
                    exploiting Indians, Eugene V. Debs speaking to a group of workers, and a Ku Klux Klan rally, Matthew
                    Baigell discusses the murals in his essay, "Benton and the Left," to support his
                    position that Benton's early proleftist political leanings can be found in his art. The
                    former two scenes are reproduced in black-and-white photographs. Other scenes from the  Indiana mural are discussed in the essay devoted to religious themes in
                    Benton's work, and in the Year of Peril essay, where the Indiana mural
                    and the 
                        Missouri
                     Capitol mural series, A Social History of the State of 
                            Missouri
                        
                (1936), are said to attack "the dehumanized organization of American
                    life" (p. 42).
            As editors R. Douglas Hurt and Mary K. Dains write in the introduction, the essays "find
                    both favor and fault with Benton and his work" (p. xiv). Even for the reader not familiar
                    with many of Benton's paintings, this volume provides insight into the views of a central
                    figure in "Regionalist" or "American Scene" art in 1930s
                    America.
            JOHN C. CARLISLE, professor of English, Purdue University
                    Calumet, has recently released his 1977 documentary film, Art for Main Street: The
                        Indiana Post Office Murals, in VHS format and currently is working on The
                        Caboose in the Cornfield and Other Hoosier Highway Delights.
            
         
         
            
               The Sociogenesis of a Race Riot: 
                     Springfield, Illinois
                  , in
                        1908. By Roberta Senechal. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1990. Pp. xiv, 231. Notes, maps, tables, illustrations, appendix, bibliography,
                    index. $29.95.)
            In August, 1908, a two-day riot rocked the city of 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               . It
                    began at the jail where two black men were believed to be awaiting trial, one for raping a white
                    woman, the other for murdering a white man. Angry whites gathered outside the jail, demanding that
                    the prisoners be released to them. When the mob discovered that the men had been secretly removed,
                    it turned on the black community instead. Before the violence ended, white rioters lynched two black
                    men and destroyed many blocks of African-American businesses and homes.
            In this book, Roberta Senechal deconstructs the riot, closely analyzing the events as well as the
                    participants and victims. Her approach departs from other studies of race riots, which have
                    generally drawn on social-strain theory and attributed antiblack violence to tension caused by rapid
                    change. Race relations, Senechal notes, were relatively stable in 
                        Springfield
                     around 1908. Social strain, moreover, does not explain why some whites rioted while
                    others did not.
            Class differences and racial concerns shaped by class, Senechal argues, are central to understanding
                    the violence. As the riot progressed, poor whites dominated, and they carefully targeted victims,
                    generally choosing successful African Americans. The presence of a few successful blacks did not
                    disturb better-off whites, whose class assured their status in relation to the majority of African
                    Americans—the majority, after all, was poor. Because of a segregated labor market, blacks
                    posed no real economic threat to poor whites. Yet poor whites felt threatened by black achievement.
                         They also resented elite whites' indifference
                    toward more restrictive racial measures, and thus, the riot revealed class tensions among whites as
                    well. Better-off whites, however, contributed to the riot more than they cared to admit, even though
                    they tried to distance themselves from it. They first applauded the riot as racial
                    "reform" and then refused to acknowledge the racial tensions underlying the
                    violence.
            While Senechal convincingly argues that the riot suggests the existence of different racial
                    ideologies, she leaves some important areas unexplored. She primarily focuses on the ways these
                    ideologies were expressed and does not fully explore their content. It is not clear, for instance,
                    whether whites expressed the same ideas in different ways during the riot or whether their actions
                    represented fundamentally different ideas about race. Nonetheless, Senechal's analysis of
                    the riot is compelling. Ultimately her work goes beyond an exploration of 
                        Springfield
                    's race riot to provide telling insights into the larger issue of race
                    relations in the 
                        United States
                    .
            LAURA EDWARDS works at the Family and Community History
                    Center at the New-berry Library, 
                        Chicago
                    . Her recently completed dissertation (University of 
                        North Carolina
                     at 
                        Chapel Hill
                    ) is entitled, "The Politics of Manhood and Womanhood: Reconstruction in 
                        Granville County
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    ."
         
         
            
               Blue Ribbon: A Social and Pictorial History of the 
                            Minnesota
                         State Fair. By Karal Ann Marling. (
                        St. Paul
                    : 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society Press, 1990. Pp. [ix], 328. Illustrations, note on sources, index.
                    Clothbound, $39.95; paperbound, $24.95.)
            Karal Ann Marling explores the 
                        Minnesota
                     State Fair, the "Great State Get-Together" (p. vii), in this
                    engaging, insightful book. Marling examines the cultural world of the fair from its early origins in
                    the midnineteenth century to attract immigrants and promote argicultural improvement to the
                    contemporary popular displays of crop art and the grand midway shows. She examines a kaleidoscope of
                    fair-going experiences to understand the significance of the agricultural fair and the social and
                    cultural forces shaping the institution. The 
                        Minnesota
                     State Fair for twelve days in the summertime, held on a permanent site in 
                        St. Paul
                     since 1885, "is our central cultural institution—the place where
                    all the varied strands of immigration, agriculture, commerce, politics, aesthetic preference, and
                    moral standards meet and mingle" (p. vii). Marling discusses the boosterism of fair
                    managers in 
                        St. Paul
                     and 
                        Minneapolis
                    , the prize-winning domestic animals, vegetables and butter sculpture, 
                        Minnesota
                     at the world's fairs, women's work, farm machinery, the 4-H and youth
                    clubs, politicians at fairs, fair architecture, and consumerism.
            Marling reveals the tension between the educational and entertainment functions at the fair. The 
                        Minnesota
                     fairs of the 1850s 
                    
                  MILK STAND, MINNESOTA STATE FAIRGROUNDS, 1924
                  Courtesy 
                                Minnesota
                             Historical Society, 
                                St. Paul
                            .
                exhibited harvests, dairy products, and stock, but horse racing, female equestrianism, and
                    "freak vegetables" (p. 20) generated more interest. Fair managers realized greater
                    crowds and profits resulted from displaying novelties and exciting competitions between horses or
                    machines. More explanation on the nature of nineteenth-century fair competitions and the rise of
                    spectators in leisure culture would enhance her discussion.
            By the 1880s "the new professionalism of 
                        Minnesota
                     agriculture" (p. 37) facilitated the modern agricultural fair. The flourishing
                    fair embodied rural-urban tensions as new entertainment jarred with traditional agricultural
                    exhibitions advocated by fair purists. Social reformers questioned the morality of lady cyclists and
                    freak shows, worrying that they tainted fair-going youth and agricultural betterment. Marling
                    analyzes the role of women and reform at the fair and new definitions of womanhood in rural culture.
                    Women showed their domestic productions and were important to the fair's success. Male fair
                    supervisors wanted farm women's participation to "counter the emergence of a new,
                    undomesticated 
                        Minnesota
                     female" (p. 95) in the 1890s.
            
            Marling vividly interprets the visual experiences and material culture of the fairgrounds, utilizing
                    wonderful illustrations of changes in fair architecture and the mosaic of far exhibitions. Social
                    and cultural historians, American studies scholars, and general readers will find interesting
                    material about the appeal of the fair. Indiana State Fair patrons might find more to experience on
                    fair days after reading Marling's Blue Ribbon.
            
            LINDA J. BORISH is assistant professor of history, 
                        Western Michigan
                     University, 
                        Kalamazoo
                    . She is currently working on nineteenth-century 
                        New England
                     farm women's health, work, leisure, and rural reform. She has published
                    articles in International Journal of the History of Sport and Agricultural
                    History.
            
         
         
            
               The Fate of Liberty: Abraham Lincoln and Civil Liberties. By Mark E. Neely, Jr. (
                        New York
                    : Oxford University Press, 1991. Pp. xvii, 278. Notes, indexes. $24.95.)
            Mark E. Neely, Jr., has written an important book that explores the record of President Abraham
                    Lincoln's maintenance of order and security during the Civil War. He studies arbitrary
                    arrest and military trial, topics not systematically treated since James G. Randall's Constitutional Problems under Lincoln (1926). His research is broad and deep, not
                    only in range of the usual primary materials but in a massive amount of sources in the National
                    Archives on specific cases, hitherto unused.
            Each of the several chapters is an informative essay: on worrisome 
                        Maryland
                     at the start of the conflict, on great upheaval in 
                        Missouri
                    , on Lincoln's rationale of emergency power, on the character and numbers of
                    actual cases, on the darker side of the story, and on the historical significance of the policies.
                    This is a compact volume, requiring careful reading, and cannot be summarized in brief form, though
                    a couple of highlights ought to be noticed.
            Neely can confidently generalize on types of cases, the preponderant part of them involving persons
                    from the Confederate South (blockade runners, contraband traders, guerrillas) and not northern
                    citizens committing sedition and raising free-speech questions, thus contrary to views of previous
                    historians. As for the perennial puzzle about numbers of cases, he concludes there were
                    "far more" than the traditional figure of thirteen thousand. He counted up to
                    fourteen thousand and then stopped because he was more interested in substantive features.
            His assessment is moderate, rather cautious. He recognizes the imperatives of controlling disorder
                    and winning the war, but he sees the darker side of sloppy, unjust administration, the instances of
                    torture and anti-Semitism, even the willingness to hold hostages. And on the key case from Indiana,
                    that of Milligan, invalidating military trial in peaceful areas of the Union, he
                    says the famous decision is "irrelevant" to future protection of civil rights.  The only lesson from that episode, and for that matter the
                    whole wartime policy, he believes, is that there is "no clear lesson." One feels
                    Neely would not protest too much a rejoinder that this conclusion remains debatable.
            MAURICE BAXTER is emeritus professor of history, Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . He is a specialist on nineteenth-century American political and constitutional
                    history.
         
         
            
               General John H. Winder, C.S.A. By Arch Fredric Blakey. (
                        Gainesville
                    : University of 
                        Florida
                     Press, 1990. Pp. xvi, 275. Figures, illustrations, appendix, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $29.95.)
            History has not been kind to General John Henry Winder. He has been portrayed as a dictator who
                    established a reign of terror while provost marshal general of 
                        Richmond
                     and as a brutal, inhumane fiend responsible for the fate of Union prisoners at 
                        Libby
                    , 
                        Andersonville
                    , and elsewhere.
            Arch Fredric Blakey believes this image is inaccurate and incomplete. In this volume, reportedly the
                    first biography of Winder to examine his antebellum career, the author attempts to rescue a villain
                    from history, to overturn a historical myth.
            In trying to alter Winder's reputation, Blakey wisely avoids picturing the general as a
                    saint. Instead, he describes Winder as abrupt, abrasive, arrogant, vain, short-tempered, impulsive,
                    stubborn, profane, and aloof. At the same time, Winder is also characterized as loyal, somewhat
                    innovative, moderately flexible, honest, efficient, and courageous. He is seen as highly qualified
                    by training and experience for the responsibilities he had during the Civil War. And most important
                    to Blakey, Winder was neither cruel nor vindictive, and to describe him as either is totally untrue.
            One of Blakey's clearest contributions is to demonstrate that Winder often found himself in
                    a catch-22 situation; no matter what he did, he would be criticized. For instance, at the same time
                    he was being castigated in the northern press for treating the prisoners inhumanely, he was being
                    maligned in the southern press for pampering the prisoners and for showing them undue leniency.
            The author aptly points out that much of Winder's troubles were beyond his power to correct.
                    The Confederacy never mobilized the necessary resources nor established an efficient system of
                    prison organization. The inability of the two governments to agree to a general exchange doomed
                    prison reform. Overcrowded conditions, clothing shortages, and insufficient food are all viewed as
                    problems created by others, not Winder. There is truth in all this, but the author has a troublesome
                    tendency to brush aside too lightly some of the criticism of Winder and to spread the blame so
                    widely as to remove nearly all sense of wrongdoing on Winder's part.
            
            The monograph is clearly written and provides its readers with a thorough account of
                    Winder's life, his own liabilities, and the limitations under which he operated, all of
                    which may cause some to modify their evaluation of the controversial general. It remains to be seen
                    if Blakey's book brings about any significant reevaluation of Winder.
            WILLIAM G. EIDSON is professor of history and associate
                    dean of the College of Sciences and Humanities at Ball State University, 
                        Muncie
                    . His most recent publication, "Confusion, Controversy, and Quarantine: The 
                        Muncie
                     Smallpox Epidemic of 1893," appeared in the December, 1990, issue of Indiana Magazine of History. He is currently writing a history of the final four
                    in Indiana high school baseball.
         
         
            
               America's National Battlefield Parks: A Guide. By Joseph E. Stevens;
                    maps by Beth Silverman. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1990. Pp. xiv, 337. Illustrations, maps, index. $29.95.)
            While it may be unwise to judge a book by its cover, in the case of Joseph E. Stevens's
                    guide to American battlefield parks, happily the contents are equally as absorbing and gripping as
                    the jacket front's striking artistic color recreation of a scene from the battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                    . In thirty-eight chapters, one for each battle-field park administered by the National
                    Park Service, Stevens surveys much of America's military heritage, beginning with the
                    American Revolution and ending with the War in the Pacific Historical Park in 
                        Guam
                     and the U.S.S. 
                        
                            Arizona
                        
                     Memorial on the island of Oahu in 
                        Hawaii
                    . His prose sparkles as he recreates not only battlefield troop movements but also the
                    real-life experiences of the participants.
            With the traveler in mind, the chapters are arranged geographically: North Atlantic, Mid-Atlantic,
                    Midwest, South, and West. By far the largest number—nineteen—are southern
                    Civil War battlefield parks. Each chapter is also geared to the park visitor. A box insert gives
                    directions to the park, availability of gas, food and lodging, and information on handicapped access
                    and park activities. The guide offers detailed, self-guided walking and auto tours keyed to National
                    Park Service numbered tour stops. Fifty-two clear and simple maps, prepared by Beth Silverman,
                    indicate present-day roads, trails, and visitor facilities. Visuals also include eighty drawings,
                    paintings, and modern and historic photographs.
            Each battle is faithfully and skillfully recreated in an engaging narrative style. Stevens gives the
                    background, strategy, tactics, and significance of the engagements. In nineteen pages the battle at 
                        Gettysburg
                     comes alive, and the carnage—51,000 casualties in three days—is
                    poignantly portrayed. The twelve pages on Vicksburg, another turning point of the war, include a
                    wartime lithograph showing Union forces firing at the forts around Vicksburg  and a wartime photograph of the Union ironclad Cairo,
                    sent to the river bottom in 1862, salvaged a hundred years later and currently on display. The only
                    Midwest entry is George Rogers Clark National Historical Park, which stands on the site of old Fort
                    Sackville in 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana. The park commemorates the seizure of the fort from the British on February
                    25, 1779, and the role of the Clark expedition in conquering the old Northwest Territory. Stevens
                    graphically portrays the successful siege of the fort by Clark and his men after they had spent
                    eighteen days slogging through freezing mud and wading chest deep in icy water.
            The narrative is a mix of the heroic and the tragic. The human dimension is ever-present. A letter
                    written by a dying son to his father during the twenty hours of nonstop savagery at 
                        Spotsylvania
                     is reproduced. Some of the photographs are worth a thousand words: the dead among
                    shattered trees on the slope of Little Round Top at 
                        Gettysburg
                    ; a solitary headstone, nearly overgrown with tall grass, which marked the spot where
                    one of George Custer's men fell; Union infantrymen sitting in a trench, waiting for orders
                    to advance.
            The guide is a treasure for anyone who plans to visit battlefield parks. It will make tours more
                    rewarding and more easily manageable. It is readable and comprehensive enough, however, to appeal to
                    a wider audience. It makes great armchair reading for the sedentary who love dramatic and
                    well-crafted historical writing.
            PHYLLIS ZIMMERMAN is assistant professor of history, Ball
                    State University, 
                        Muncie
                    . Her book on the role of George W. Goethals in the reorganization of the 
                        United States
                     Army supply system during World War I is forthcoming from 
                        Texas
                     A & M University Press.
         
         
            
               Building the Myth: Selected Speeches Memorializing Abraham Lincoln. Edited by
                    Waldo W. Braden. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1990. Pp. v, 259. Notes, selected bibliography, index. $34.95.)
            In this insightful selection of Lincolniana editor Waldo Branden presents eulogies and ceremonial
                    tributes that have contributed to a prevailing Lincoln mythology. For some seven generations
                    politicians and preachers have been getting "right with Lincoln," as the late
                    Senator Everett Dirksen once astutely noted. In this process of getting right, political and
                    spiritual leaders have created an atmosphere that permits little if anything to despoil the
                    Emancipator's sainted memory, thereby successfully securing the mythos of this epic hero in
                    the American mind.
            In a perceptive introductory essay Braden notes the change in public sentiment from a
                    "maligned Old Abe" to his "personification" as "Father
                    Abraham" and "Savior of the Republic" (p. 1). Explanatory  commentary gives meaningful detail about speaker, audience, and
                    occasion for each of the selected twenty-three speeches. The texts reveal a rhetorical artistry that
                    flourished in contributing to the legend. Two of the leading eulogists, like Lincoln, spent
                    significant periods of their lives in frontier Indiana. Henry Ward Beecher's first
                    pastorates were in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where his Lectures to Young Men attracted nationwide attention.
                    Bishop Matthew Simpson, onetime president of Asbury (DePauw) College in 
                        Greencastle
                    , was selected to deliver "the final benediction" at the open vault in
                        Oak Hill Cemetery, Spring-field. Lincoln's rail-splitter heritage
                    became a cherished feature of the mythology. Ralph Waldo Emerson emphasized this frontier influence
                    "upon the American character," anticipating the thinking of Frederick Jackson
                    Turner (p. 28).
            Four presidents are included among the selected ceremonial orators (James A. Garfield, Theodore
                    Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, and William Howard Taft). Four others ran for the presidency. Democrats,
                    unlikely eulogists in the immediate postbellum period, became entirely acceptable as public
                    sentiment shifted, ultimately enabling Democratic Governor Mario Cuomo in 1986 to proclaim before a 
                        Springfield
                     audience of scholars and politicians that honoring Lincoln was "beyond the
                    scope of partisan politics." In an eloquent address Cuomo proclaimed, "We have
                    lifted Lincoln to the very pinnacle of our national memory…. We have chiseled his face on
                    the side of a mountain, making him appear as a voice in the heavens" (p. 233).
            Ceremonial oratory resounds with sainthood, martyrdom, and "epic grandeur," but
                    seldom is there a whisper of the apocalyptic cost of warfare. Elihu Root came closest to describing
                    the cost when he quoted the words of Lincoln to Mrs. Bixby, mentioning "the solemn
                    pride" of having "laid so costly a sacrifice" as five sons "upon
                    the altar of freedom" (p. 201). Braden's excellent book illumines not only Lincoln
                    but the thought of postwar generations that followed him.
            ROBERT G. GUNDERSON, emeritus professor of speech
                    communication and of history at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , is the author of The Log-Cabin Campaign (1957) and of The Old Gentlemen's Convention (1961).
         
         
            
               We Took the Train. Edited by H. Roger Grant. (
                        DeKalb
                    : 
                        Northern Illinois
                     University Press, 1990. Pp. xxx, 175. Illustrations, notes, index. $29.50.)
            This is a pleasant little book, an exercise in nostalgia. H. Roger Grant has assembled twenty-one
                    first-person narratives devoted to travel by train in the 
                        United States
                    . Some are from the early days of railroading, but they continue to the present with
                    accounts of travel on Amtrak's Metroliner over the famous north-east 
                    
                  OVERLAND LIMITED DINER, CHICAGO & NORTH WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY, 1954
                  Courtesy 
                                Chicago
                             & North Western Transportation Company.
                corridor. The nicely illustrated text is enlivened by a large and inviting typeface.
            Among the accounts reprinted are two by notable foreign travelers, Charles Dickens and Robert Louis
                    Stevenson. There are several good accounts of the transcontinental route with all of the expected
                    color of the trans—
                        Mississippi
                     West. It is particularly pleasing to find in this select company the reappearance of
                    Christopher Morley, so well known to rail fans of an earlier generation. Morley's charming
                    literary effusions are well represented by an essay entitled "A Ride in the Cab of the
                    Twentieth Century Limited." William D. Middleton's "A Dirge for the
                    Doodlebug," and "Troop Train" by David P. Morgan are also enjoyable.
                    There is a lively account of riding on narrow-gauge lines in 
                        Colorado
                     and 
                        New Mexico
                    .
            Residents of the Midwest, where interurban railways made a powerful impact in the first few decades
                    of the twentieth century, will be especially entertained by "The Electric Way,"
                    which contains two narratives of interurban travel in the lush years. One of these contributions,
                    "Riding the Interurban," is a 1909 account of a trip over electrified lines
                    between 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    . It has been alleged by some historians that you could actually ride electrics and
                    street railways all the way from 
                        New York
                     to 
                        Chicago
                     (however slow and foolhardy this may have been). This account probably exposes the
                    impossibility of the attempt. By the time the author had arrived at 
                        Rochester
                    , 
                        New York
                    , he had travelled 387  miles but only 233 of these
                    miles on electric roads. Elsewhere he had to resort to steam railroads. What a nuisance such all-day
                    trolley riding must have been—but can one imagine anything more delightful?
            Perhaps the only complaint that might be made against We Took the Train is that it
                    does not have nearly enough accounts of railroad travel. The number of chapters might well have been
                    doubled without the reader's getting gorged.
            GEORGE H. DOUGLAS teaches courses in nonfiction writing at
                    the University of 
                        Illinois
                     at Urbana-Champaign. He is the author of several books dealing with the railroad in
                    America including Rail City: 
                            Chicago
                        , USA (1981) and a forthcoming social history of the railroad in
                America.
         
         
            
               Beloved Community: The Cultural Criticism of Randolph Bourne, Van Wyck Brooks, Waldo
                        Frank, & Lewis Mumford. By Casey Nelson Blake. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1990. Pp. xvi, 365. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $34.95; paperbound, $12.95.)
            Of the three aspects of American modernism's trinity—liberty, equality,
                    fraternity—the last might be the most difficult to realize. Liberty, as freedom from
                    restraint and as self-generated activity, is well known in the nation's past and present.
                    The historic struggle to define equality remains current too. Fraternity or community, however, is
                    difficult to trace from the past to the present, except in some form of nationalism.
            Now Casey Nelson Blake has investigated the problem of community in the writings of four well-known
                    intellectuals from the first half of the twentieth century. The result is a finely crafted book up
                    to a point; the only criticism is the choppy presentation of biographical and literary material. A
                    chronology of each man and his major books would have been handy along with the old mundane business
                    of birth and death dates.
            This critical comment is not fatal to Blake's presentation. The chapters are well organized
                    with a strong clear theme. The book is well written. And the thesis is of historiographic
                    importance. Bourne, Brooks, Frank, and Mumford were radical critics who sought a
                    "communitarian vision of self-realization through participation in a democratic
                    culture" (p. 2).
            Blake's argument is advanced along two interpretative lines: romantic critique of capitalism
                    and civic republicanism (another popular theme in American scholarship today). He does a better job
                    of exploring the first line of inquiry. Finding examples of civic humanism among twentieth-century
                    writers is a very difficult task, especially among progressives who were displeased with Marxism and
                    also with the culture of consumerism that debuted in the 1920s.
            
            Collectively known as Young Americans, these writers desired the impossible. "The ideal of
                    an interactive self," Blake writes, "reshaping its own consciousness as it
                    humanized the environment, of the craftsman uniting knowledge and action through a collective
                    practice, remained the Young American's most powerful alternative to the culture of
                    industrialism" (p. 180). Together they discounted the pragmatism of John Dewey as morally
                    suspect due to his support of America's entry into the Great War.
            More mystic than modernist, particularly Frank and Brooks, they sought a "usable
                    past," one that would illuminate the future. It was not possible. Ralph Waldo Emerson and
                    transcendentalism failed them. Never attracted to relativism, they sought some historically based
                    creed about culture and contributions of aware citizens. As Blake reveals in a first-rate analysis,
                    the Young Americans wanted political radicalism—egalitarian and
                    participatory—and cultural radicalism in which not all cultural forms were equal and in
                    which radical intellectuals helped shape a community of hierarchical values.
            Blake shows that the consequences of their literary and philosophical efforts were limited.
                    Bourne's writings had a brief revival among the New Left and peace groups. Frank has no
                    followers today, and historical and architectural writings have moved beyond Brooks and Mumford.
                    They do have in Blake, however, an interested and outstanding historian to tell their collective
                    story.
            DONALD K. PICKENS, University of 
                        North Texas
                    , Denton, is currently working on a biography of Leon Keyserling and the rise and fall
                    of integrative liberalism in the twentieth century.
         
         
            
               The Quote Sleuth: A Manual for the Tracer of Lost Quotations. By Anthony W.
                    Shipps. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1990. Pp. xi, 194. Notes, bibliography, index. $24.95.)
            Queries about quotations are among the most common questions reference librarians are asked.
                    "Who said …?" "What's the rest of the saying that
                    begins …?" While this book will not provide the answers to such questions, it
                    will help the reader learn how to find the answers.
            Anthony W. Shipps is librarian for English and Theatre, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . He seems to have spent a good part of his adult life, both vocationally and
                    avocationally, finding, verifying, and writing about quotations of all kinds—literary,
                    popular, historical, religious—for a wide variety of purposes and publications. Now, in
                        The Quote Sleuth, drawing on years of experience and on a fund of fascinating
                    examples, he presents and discusses the various categories of reference works and strategies that
                    can be used in searching quotations: general dictionaries of quotations (e.g.,
                    Bartlett); single-subject works (e.g., Ragbag of Legal
                    
                    Quotations); single-person quotation books (Shakespeare and other well-known
                    authors, of course, but one would be amazed at some of the persons whose words have been collected
                    and organized for posterity—Spiro Agnew and Mae West, for example); dictionaries
                    containing quotations, such as the Oxford English Dictionary; concordances to
                    English-language authors; keyword, first- and last-line indexes to quotations; hints on a strategy
                    for searching; searching classical and foreign quotations; and finally, a very helpful annotated
                    bibliography of books of quotations and of other reference materials useful for searching
                    quotations. Only one notable omission from the extensive listing was found—books of
                    quotations by women. They have been seriously underrepresented in most collections of quotations.
            The book is intended for the "person just now beginning to need to know how to identify the
                    sources of quotations" as well as for those who are experienced and for whom the book
                    "should provide a useful review of helpful materials, some information about reference
                    tools not yet examined or long since forgotten, and a handy bibliography" (p. x). While
                    most historians probably fall somewhere between the two groups, there is undoubtedly not a single
                    historian who at one time or another has not looked for that appropriate but elusive, vaguely
                    remembered quotation. The Quote Sleuth, a delight to read, will make that search
                    much easier.
            EVAN IRA FARBER is college librarian of
                    Earlham College, 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana. He has edited a number of reference works and is a member of the Advisory
                    Board of the Reference Services Review.
            
         
         
            
               Cultural History and Material Culture: Everyday Life, Landscapes, Museums. By
                    Thomas J. Schlereth. (
                  Ann Arbor, Mich.
               : UMI Research Press, 1990. Pp. xxii, 440.
                    Illustrations, notes tables, maps, index. $44.95.)
            The range of Thomas J. Schlereth's interests in aspects of American history is a challenge
                    to a reviewer of Cultural History and Material Culture, although the title and
                    subtitle manage to establish some limits. There are familiar things here for scholars, teachers, and
                    museum curators who are acquainted with Schlereth's work, for this book is largely a
                    collection of previously published articles and essays. Many of these, however, appeared in
                    newsletters and conference proceedings that could be difficult to locate, so it is a truly valuable
                    service to include this collection in the excellent American Material Culture and
                        Folklife series. Schlereth imposes order on the selections in several ways. One is to
                    divide the book into three parts: Everyday Life, including "Plants
                    Past," "Mail-Order Catalogs," "Material Culture of
                    Childhood," "Artisans in the New Republic," and a new (and delightful)
                    essay, "The World and Workers of the Paper Empire"; Public
                    
                    Landscapes, including "The City as Artifact," "The 
                        New England
                     Presence on the Midwest Landscape," "Chautauqua,"
                    "City Planning as Progressive Reform," and "The Material Universe of
                    American World Expositions"; and Museums as Artifacts, including
                    "The History behind, within and outside the History Museum," "Pioneers of
                    Material Culture," the revolutionary "It Wasn't That Simple,"
                    "Causing Conflict, Doing Violence," and a recent theoretical and methodological
                    essay on "History Museums and Material Culture."
            The last essay may be where some readers, such as teachers in graduate programs in American studies,
                    history, and muscology may choose to begin, because it is more than a comprehensive survey of the
                    field of material culture studies; Schlereth has worked out two paradigmatic charts, one that
                    classifies and compares the historical emphases of this fairly recent branch of study and the other
                    doing the same for current trends in research. These paradigms incorporate brief lists of published
                    works that represent the subject matter and methods of each category. In short, this chapter
                    encapsulates the history and current state of the study of material culture as done in the academy
                    and in museums.
            Most readers, though, will prefer to start at the beginning, drawn into each essay by
                    Schlereth's frankly personal forewords, his engagingly clear style, and by sheer curiosity
                    about how the author will give meaning to the many illustrations drawn from family albums,
                    advertisements, certificates, maps and historic paintings, engravings and photographs. Each essay
                    illuminates these by showing how to read simple visual and material data and how to understand them
                    in the broader contexts of significant human values and concerns.
            For Schlereth's encyclopedic bibliographic references alone, this book should be in every
                    historical society and on every American history scholar's desk, but even more it is worth
                    returning to for guidance in researching, interpreting, and appreciating the material things of the
                    natural and cultural environments.
            FRED E. H. SCHROEDER teaches humanities at the University
                    of 
                        Minnesota
                    , 
                        Duluth
                    .
         
         
            
               Sweetwater, Storms, and Spirits: Stories of the Great Lakes. Selected and edited
                    by Victoria Brehm. (
                        Ann Arbor
                    : University of 
                        Michigan
                     Press, in cooperation with the Historical Society of 
                        Michigan
                    , 1990. Pp. x, 340. Illustrations, map, notes, bibliography. $32.50.)
            Victoria Brehm, who holds a Master's License for Great Lakes and Inland Waters, has
                    assembled and edited a marvelous collection of tales about the Great Lakes, ranging from Native
                    American stories to twentieth-century fiction. Most of her selections represent  pieces of larger works. What binds this collection together is a
                    continuing effort to make sense of place—to examine, to explain, to understand the
                    interplay between people and the lakes that make up a freshwater sea in the midst of a continent.
            Brehm argues in her introduction that the literature of the Great Lakes is unique and not merely an
                    imitation of the more popular and widely read stories of the saltwater seas. Place has been a key
                    variable in shaping the tales of the lakes, many of which were "inspired by the paradox of
                    sailing a sea in the midst of a continent, where a seven-hundred-foot ship loaded with wheat from
                    the tranquil farms nearby can be ripped apart by a gale worthy of the North Atlantic" (p.
                    3). According to Brehm, stories of storms, shipwrecks, and disasters ran counter to American and
                    Canadian beliefs in the conquest and control of the continent. As a result, much of the fiction
                    about the lakes ended up in obscure publications.
            Victoria Brehm has divided Sweetwater, Storms, and Spirits into five thematic
                    sections: "Masters and Men," "St. Elmo's Fire,"
                    "Fishermen," "Lighthouses and Lockkeepers," and "White
                    Squall." The twenty selections that comprise these sections include collected Ojibwa and
                    Menomini myths and tales, anonymous stories, and signed articles. Many of Brehm's
                    selections address the challenges of navigation on the lakes—in wooden three-masted
                    schooners in the nineteenth century and in steel, propeller-driven, bulk carriers in the twentieth.
                    Not surprisingly, most of the author's and characters are male, but Brehm has added depth
                    by including a few stories by and about women.
            The selections in Sweetwater, Storms, and Spirits are interesting, and they add a
                    useful dimension to what is known about the history of the Great Lakes. History, fiction, and myth
                    are not necessarily mutually exclusive. The stories in this volume contain some historical
                    information, but more importantly, like "objective" history they forge connections
                    between past and present. They help the reader understand how people in the past struggled to come
                    to terms with their relationship with the lakes, and they assist in understanding that relationship
                    in the present. Some readers might wish for an index, but that aside, the collection offered by
                    Brehm is satisfying indeed.
            PHILIP V. SCARPINO is associate professor and director of
                    public history at Indiana University—Purdue University at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He is researching an environmental history of the Great Lakes that compares the
                    Canadian and American perspectives.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               More Than A Game: A History of Boys Basketball in 
                            Henry County
                        . By Greg Guffey. (
                        Hagerstown
                    , Ind.: Exponent Publishers, Inc., 1990. Pp. v, 195. Illustrations. $14.95.
                    Mail orders: to 
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society, 606 South 14th Street, 
                        New Castle
                    , IN 47362.) Consider three facts about 
                        Henry County
                    : the Indiana Basketball Hall of Fame is located there; the gym used to film the movie
                        Hoosiers is there; and there too is the largest high school fieldhouse in the
                    world, the 
                        New Castle
                     gym that holds 9,325 spectators. Consider then the players—
                        Marion
                     Pierce, Ray Pavy, Kent Benson, Steve Alford, and many more. Arguments about whether any
                    other county in Indiana could match Henry's record of enthusiasm for basketball could keep
                    many Hoosiers busy in the long months when only lesser sports are played. Greg Guffey's new
                    book will provide some of the fuel for the debate. Well written and including many photographs, this
                    volume will surely delight all who know 
                        Henry County
                     and provide a good introduction to the love affair between Hoosiers and basketball. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               A Window on the Past: Residences of 
                     Jacksonville, Illinois
                  ,
                        Their History and Design, 1833–1925. By Philip H. Decker. Introduction by Helen
                    Walton Hackett. (
                  Jacksonville, Ill.
               : 
                        Morgan County
                     Historical Society, 1990. Pp. 141. Illustrations, maps, bibliography. Clothbound,
                    $25.00; paperbound, $15.00, plus $2.50 shipping. Order from Journal
                    Courier, 235 West State, Jacksonville, IL 62651, payable to 
                        Morgan County
                     Historical Society.) Who could write about the blandness of the small-town Midwest
                    after reading a book like this? Philip H. Decker has expertly brought to life the variety of
                    architectural styles in 
                  Jacksonville, Illinois
               , and conveyed also some sense of the
                    people who built and lived in these houses. The book is handsomely produced, with excellent exterior
                    and interior photographs. Every town deserves this kind of homage. James H. Madison,
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Midwest at Noon. By Graham Hutton. (1946; reprint, 
                        DeKalb
                    : 
                        Northern Illinois
                     University Press, 1990. Pp. xxi, 351. Notes, index. Paperbound, $12.50.)
                    Englishman Graham Hutton (1904–1988) through this work first published in 1946
                    established himself as an unusually perceptive, if sympathetic, interpreter of the  American Midwest, a land for him of extremes, of paradoxes, of immense
                    size and diversity, and of endless fascination. During World War II he directed the Office of
                    British Information in 
                        Chicago
                    , from which base he traveled extensively throughout the region while also immersing
                    himself in its history and folklore, in its accomplishments and possibilities. The result is a
                    brilliantly executed, still fresh analysis of "the most favored and the most American
                    region" (p. 341) of the country. Modern readers will be struck by Hutton's ability
                    to weave the past into the present, to reveal how close the region remained to its pioneer origins
                    in 1946, and by the accuracy of his predictions nearly half a century ago. Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press is to be congratulated upon making available again what Bernard De
                    Voto called "the best book ever written about the Middle West." Ralph
                        D. Gray, Indiana University-Purdue University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
               Lincoln's Youth: Indiana Years, Seven to Twenty-one, 1816–1830.
                    By Louis A. Warren. (1959; reprint, 
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1991. Pp. xxii, 298. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $19.95; paperbound, $9.95.) Louis A. Warren
                    drew on years of experience as director of a Lincoln library/museum and on canny historical
                    imagination to write an accessible and useful history of Abraham Lincoln's early life in
                    Indiana. Documentation for Lincoln's youth is scarce, and Warren's reconstruction,
                    based on a combination of oral history, local histotry, and popular psychology, is the most
                    convincing argument one is likely to find. Warren's command of local history is
                    astonishing, as when he describes Lincoln's trip down the 
                        Mississippi
                     using the words of another traveler who made the same trip only a few weeks before
                    Lincoln did. Sarah McNair Vosmeier, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Cleveland: The Making of a City. By William Ganson Rose. (1950; reprint,
                            
                  Kent, Ohio
               : Kent State University Press, in cooperation with the Western Reserve
                    Historical Society, 1990. Pp. xiv, 1272. Maps, illustrations, appendixes, index. $75.00.)
                    William Ganson Rose traces Cleveland's year-by-year development from a pioneer settlement
                    on the Western Reserve to what he describes as the best location in the nation. His romanticized
                    vignettes and illustrations highlight Cleveland's successful individuals, institutions, and
                    events. Rose's omission of racial, ethnic, and labor controversy is not an omission of
                    neglect but rather a conscious elimination of inappropriate content for the city's
                    sesquicentennial booster history written at the onset of the cold war. Chrystyna Huk,
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
         
         
            News from the Indiana State Archives
            James E. Farmer of 
                        Indianapolis
                     is president of the newly organized Indiana Friends of the Archives (IFA), a
                    citizen-based group supporting the preservation and use of public records. Other officers are:
                    Charles R. Brown, Montezuma, vice-president; F. Gerald Handfield, Jr., 
                        Indianapolis
                    , secretary; and Jack L. New, 
                        Greenfield
                    , treasurer. The IFA mission is twofold: to enhance the Archives' resources and
                    services and at the same time to help save Indiana history.
            Projects planned by the group include:
            
               • Restoration work on the 1816 and 1851 state constitutions and other selected
                        documents that are threatened by deterioration.
               • Creating the state's first center for the preservation of television
                        news and documentary film that now is without a permanent home and at risk.
               •Encouraging scholarly research in and publication of the papers of Indiana
                        governors.
               • The enlistment and training of volunteers to help the Archives reduce its large
                        processing backlogs.
            
            Inquiries may be addressed to the Indiana Friends of the Archives, 117 State Library and Historical
                    Bldg., 140 North Senate Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46204.
            The State Archives will publish updates of A Biographical Directory of the Indiana
                        General Assembly every ten years beginning in 1995. Justin E. Walsh and Alan F. January,
                    the principal authors/editors of the two volumes published in 1980 and 1984 as part of the
                    legislature's Centennial History, are now on the Archives staff. The volumes contain
                    sketches of the more than six thousand persons who served in the General Assembly between 1816 and
                    1984. The update in 1995 will include sketches of all legislators who served between 1985 and 1995,
                    plus updated information on lawmakers who served previously.
            Four Governor's Fellows engaged in summer internships at the Archives in 1991 compiled a
                    computerized database of county records. The materials, dating primarily from the nineteenth
                    century, were largely unprocessed and consequently unknown to and unused by Archives patrons. The
                    new inventory permits access to the records through both comprehensive printouts and automated
                    searches.
            
            Recent acquisitions of the State Archives include:
            PAPERS OF JOHN KENNEDY GRAHAM, 1804–1841; 1 cubic foot; unrestricted access; inventory
                    available.
            John Kennedy Graham was a delegate to the 1816 Constitutional Convention and an early Indiana
                    legislator, businessman, and surveyor. The materials, donated to the Archives by a direct descendant
                    of Graham, had been in the family since Graham died in 1841. The papers include seventy-eight
                    letters dealing with business, political, and family life in Indiana between 1805 and 1841.
                    Correspondents include 
                        United States
                     senators, congressmen, and three of Indiana's early governors.
            SECRETARY OF STATE. MASTER INDEX OF INDIANA INCORPORATIONS, 1852–1969; 21 vols. on 11
                    reels of microfilm; volumes arranged chronologically, corporations recorded alphabetically.
            The Index typically includes date of filing, corporate name, location, type of incorporation, and
                    amount of capital.
            Handouts on the "AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS COLLECTION" and on "MAJOR GENEALOGICAL
                    AND HISTORICAL SOURCES FOR AFRICAN-AMERICAN RESEARCH" held by the Archives are available
                    upon request from Indiana State Archives, Room 117, 140 North Senate Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46204.
            The Archives collection of more than one hundred thousand aerial photographs was enhanced during 1991
                    by a donation from Purdue University's agronomy department of some fifteen thousand of the
                    earliest such pictures taken in Indiana. In all, the collection constitutes a survey of the
                    state's physical development from the late 1920s through the early 1960s. The handout, a
                    comprehensive listing arranged alphabetically by county, is an abstract of information about the
                    sets, noting the date each was compiled and explaining the marks stamped on each photo for
                    identification. At least one index is available for each county, but because flight lines change
                    from set to set, an index can be used only with the set from which it was compiled.
            The handout for African-American research includes information on censuses of blacks in particular
                    counties; records of the state Board of Colonization, 1852–1865; Civil War and other
                    military records; records of the Indiana Fair Employment Practices Commission
                    (1941–1961); Indiana Civil Rights Commission (1961–present); and a variety of
                    materials from agencies that may include information on individuals: applications from the
                    Professional Licensing Agency, records of the State Supreme and Appellate Courts, state hospitals,
                    and departments of Education, Public Welfare, and the State Board of Health.
         
         
         
            Letters to the Editor
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Editor: Indiana Magazine of History
                        
                        I wish to publically thank Thomas Hamm for the complimentary observations that he
                                    made in his review of Conscience and Slavery, but I also want to
                                    call attention to three mistakes he made in his report that were apparently due to a
                                    cursory and superficial reading of parts of my book. "This book,"
                                    he writes, "delivers less than its title promises." The title
                                    promises nothing except a discussion of religion and slavery. Neither conscience nor
                                    slavery were qualified and the subtitle restricts the narrative to evangelical
                                    Calvinists. Conscience is basic to and at the heart of evangelical religion.
                        Hamm questions the accuracy of my conclusion concerning the efforts of abolitionists
                                    and antislavery members of the Calvinist churches following the political
                                    developments in the 1850's. Hamm writes that he and many others would not
                                    agree with the conclusion that, "The action of abolitionists in criticizing
                                    the northern church was less effective in purifying the moral outlook of the
                                    northern church than it was in strengthening the proslavery stance of the southern
                                    church." He wrongly cites the quote as being on page 189. The Presbyterian
                                    General Assembly of 1853 resolved that the southern church should answer questions
                                    about the extension of slavery in the New School Presbyterian Church when
                                    antislavery presbyteries petitioned the Assembly to consider such measures. Neither
                                    the Assembly nor the AHMS proposed action based on the facts that might be
                                    furnished, but ministers in the southern church answered with an aggressive
                                    offensive.
                        In the Assembly of 1856 William Holley of 
                                        Mississippi
                                     admitted that he held slaves for personal gain and that it was common
                                    practice throughout the southern church. Some northern presbyteries asked the
                                    Assembly to discipline Holley and when he died shortly after making his statement,
                                    his presbytery unanimously resolved that all the members of the presbytery took the
                                    same stand as Holley. Fred Ross of 
                                        Tennessee
                                     threw out the greatest challenge to the North. He attempted to refute
                                    Presbyterian Albert Barnes' antislavery, The Church and
                                        Slavery in all of the Presbyterian journals that would accept a series of
                                    letters, and he dominated the floor of the Assembly of 1856 by contradicting and
                                    resisting all the measures the Assembly had taken on slavery in the 1850's.
                                    The southern Presbyterians forced the Assembly to choose between the antislavery
                                    presbyteries and the slaveholding southern presbyteries. Only then did the Assembly
                                    of 1856 resolve that it had the power to remove slavery from the church. The
                                    southern synods responded by withdrawing from the church. This was all clearly
                                    delineated in my book. (160–63)
                        
                        The antislavery presbyteries had control of the Assembly by 1853 and the New School
                                    Presbyterian Church should certainly be viewed as antislavery after 1857. Hamm
                                    states in his review that "Howard's argument that true Christians
                                    could have resolved the problem of slavery through compromise is
                                    unconvincing". I took a totally opposite position. It was not possible for
                                    the northern Presbyterians to compromise with what they viewed as sin because it was
                                    a moral question that offered no possibility of compromise. This was as much a fact
                                    as any undisputed act. I wrote, "There was no option between principles and
                                    expediency … and the tendency was to slavishly follow principle even
                                    though a departure from principle might have moved society closer to the final
                                    objective …, but ironically, the seeds of failure were inherent in the
                                    inability of antislavery Christians to envision a working compromise that would have
                                    permitted a partial victory over the sin of slavery." (Italics added.)
                                    Nowhere did I use the term "true Christians" as Hamm accuses, but
                                    I did refer to the sin of slavery in agreement with the most determined antislavery
                                    Christians who based their belief on the golden rule, and I stated, in accord with
                                    the antislavery men, that the church could not be purified as long as it tolerated
                                    slavery. Even the politicians could not compromise on the critical questions in
                                    1861. If the Old School Presbyterians could not compromise on loyalty to nationalism
                                    that year, it would be futile to expect the New School Presbyterians to compromise
                                    on a fundamental moral question, and no one did. Finally, to quote from my book: New
                                    School Presbyterians "believed a special burden rested on them to act
                                    morally and to purify the republic by resisting compromise." (188)
                        
                                    
                              
                                 Morehead State University 
                                 
                                    
                                       Morehead, Kentucky
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                                    
                                        Victor B. Howard
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Editor: Indiana Magazine of History
                        
                        I am sorry that Professor Howard believes that the critical portions of what was a
                                    generally favorable review must be the result of dereliction on my part, rather than
                                    the product of the sort of scholarly difference of opinion that often advances
                                    knowledge. To charge a fellow scholar with publishing a review based on
                                    "cursory and superficial reading" is a serious thing.
                        Professor Howard charges me with three "mistakes." The first I
                                    acknowledge freely—the quotation in question, although accurately
                                    rendered, is on page 188, not 189. I apologize for that error. As for whether the
                                    title of his work promises more than the book delivers, I do not think that I am
                                    alone in expecting that a work entitled Conscience and Slavery,
                                    even given the subtitle, would be more than an account of the ecclesiastical
                                    politics of the American  Home Missionary
                                    Society. But that seems a minor point, especially since my review pointed out how
                                    well Professor Howard told that story.
                        The fundamental difference between Professor Howard and me is the moral he draws from
                                    his meticulously researched work, or, in the terms his Calvinist clergy would have
                                    used, the "application." Here, since he essentially claims that I
                                    misrepresented him, I think it best to let Professor Howard speak for himself in the
                                    last two paragraphs of his book: 
                                        Early in the nineteenth century the church had been more concerned about
                                            spreading the gospel, not offending the South, and increasing membership
                                            rolls than they were in doing what they felt was morally correct. They
                                            winked at slavery while it was increasing its strength in the lower
                                                Mississippi Valley. In this sense there was a
                                            neglect of duty in the church that was as grievous as that on the part of
                                            statesmen who suppressed the discussion of slavery in the halls of Congress.
                                            After the Mexican War the evangelists were swept along by the antislavery
                                            movement toward war as a means of obtaining their objective because they
                                            were incapable of finding a peaceful solution to the problem of the
                                            expansion of slavery. The Civil War indicated a failure in leadership on the
                                            part of the clergy just as much as on the part of statesmen and politicians.
                                            The coming of the war was helped along by evangelists who held that they
                                            were right and that God was on their side. The action of abolitionists in
                                            criticizing the northern church was less effective in purifying the moral
                                            outlook of the northern church than it was in strengthening the proslavery
                                            stance of the southern church. Changes came in the northern church because
                                            of what northern churchmen considered excesses of the South and because of
                                            the growing influence of radical Christians within the church that awakened
                                            the Christian conscience.67
                              
                                        The church could no longer compromise with sin and evil; no deals could be
                                            made with Satan. The religious community was often more concerned with
                                            safeguarding its moral position and listening to its newfound conscience
                                            than with finding a solution that would avoid resorting to war. Until the
                                            slavery question moved into the realms of a strictly political issue after
                                            the Mexican War, the church saw evidence that progress was being made. But
                                            faced with the choice of voting slavery "up or down," the
                                            question took on the nature of a moral absolute when slavery threatened to
                                            expand into the territories. There was no option between principles and
                                            expediency in this context, and the tendency was to slavishly follow
                                            principle even though a departure from principle might have moved society
                                            closer to the final objective. If the war had not intervened, enough
                                            anti-slavery sentiment might have been created in the churches to bring
                                            about a peaceful end to slavery, but ironically the seeds of failure were
                                            inherent in the inability of antislavery Christians to envision a working
                                            compromise that would have permitted a partial victory over the sin of
                                                slavery.68 From the viewpoint of our day, it is not
                                            for us to condemn the refusal of many to compromise on questions of
                                            morals—or even to attempt to evaluate whether this was right or
                                            wrong. The lesson for contemporary society seems to be that, after weighing
                                            the extent of harm to society involved on each side of the question and the
                                            extent to which practices confirm or contradict the ethical standard of our
                                            civilization, questions of a moral nature on which society does not agree
                                            would best remain, if possible, outside the realm of politics.69
                              
                                     I leave it to readers to decide whether I was unreasonable in summarizing
                                    this argument as I did. We can quibble over the adjective "true,"
                                    but certain assumptions implicit throughout the book are most clearly stated here:
                                    that abolitionists pursued their cause  with
                                    reckless disregard for consequences, that a more moderate approach might have
                                    brought the Southern church to an antislavery position, that bringing Southern
                                    Presbyterians to such a position might have moved the rest of Southern society with
                                    them, that slavery was not a political issue before the rise of the abolitionist
                                    movement, and, most of all, that there was some compromise on slavery short of
                                    abolition and that would not have been political. I think that many historians will
                                    regard all of these as untenable.
                        I regret that this letter has necessarily dwelt on what I saw as the flaw in
                                    Professor Howard's work. I stand by the judgment of my review that
                                    Conscience and Slavery is a work admirable in the depth and breadth of its research,
                                    one from which historians can learn much. I did.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 Earlham College 
                                 
                                    
                                       Richmond
                                    , Indiana
                              
                           
                                    
                                        Thomas D. Hamm
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Letters to the editor are printed verbatim.
                
         
         
         
            INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY GRADUATE FELLOWSHIPS IN HISTORY
            
                    Two Grants of $6,000 Each for the 1992–1993 Academic Year
                
            
               
                  
                            Purpose:
                        
                  To encourage research that will contribute to an understanding of the history of Indiana,
                            or of the history of Indiana as part of regions with which it has been associated (such as
                            the Old Northwest and Midwest).
               
               
                  
                            Eligibility:
                        
                  Applicants must be enrolled in a program in an accredited institution and have completed
                            all course work and met all requirements for the doctoral degree except the research and
                            writing of the dissertation. The dissertation subject must reflect the purpose of the grant
                            and be approved by the graduate committee of the institution.
               
               
                  
                            Application:
                        
                  Application forms may be obtained from the office of the Indiana Historical Society at the
                            address below.
               
               
                  
                  Applicants must provide three letters of recommendation including one from the
                            chair-person of their major department and one from the dissertation director. Also required
                            are a transcript of graduate credits and a dissertation prospectus.
               
               
                  
                            Awards:
                        
                  Winners will receive grants of $6,000 to be used for expenses connected with
                            their dissertations. One half of the grant, $3,000, will be paid September 1,
                            1992; ($2,000) December 1, 1992; and $1,000 upon acceptance of the
                            dissertation by the graduate committee and receipt of a bound copy by the Indiana Historical
                            Society.
               
               
                  
                            Deadlines:
                        
                  For receipt of
                            applications     March 13,
                        1992
               
               
                  
                  Announcements of awards    May 15, 1992
               
               
                  
                  For further information and application forms write:
               
               
                  
                  Robert M. Taylor, Jr., DirectorResearch Projects and Grants DivisionIndiana
                            Historical Society315 
                                West Ohio
                             Street
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana 46202
               
            
            
                    Applications due by March 13, 1992
                
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
