
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 29, Issue 4, pages 269-379. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:29+issue:4+year:1933&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            The Red Man of the 
                        Wabash
                    
               1
            
            By ELMORE BARCE
            
            The well known loyalty and fidelity of the red man to his friends has been the
                    subject of panegyric from the earliest days of the republic. The warning given
                    by Tecumseh to Captain Wilson and his friends at Prophet's Town of a
                    threatened assassination by the Prophet's queen and her
                    satellites—the story related by General William Henry Harrison of the
                    Iroquois chief who came to the camp of Anthony Wayne to avenge the death of
                    General Richard Butler, his friend, at the head of the 
                        Wabash
                    —the thousand and one instances where Indian scouts,
                    runners, interpreters and warriors have followed their white friends with
                    hound-like devotion through war, famine, flood and disaster—these
                    afford ample and positive proof of the red man's devotion in the face
                    of peril to his personal security. Nor must we neglect that beautiful story in
                        Wuu-Bun related by Mrs. Kinzie, in which she shows how
                    Captain William Wells, reared under the teachings and traditions of the ancient 
                        Miami
                     chieftains, blackened his face and rode out to certain death to
                    avert disaster to the white garrison at old Fort 
                        Dearborn
                    .2
            
            The red man of old was a man of the strictest integrity. To be a sneak-thief or a
                    purloiner of other men's possessions was to be held in utter
                    detestation. The enumeration of instances might go on indefinitely. The first
                    witness we summon is Colonel William Stanley Hatch of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , a friend and admirer of the Shawnees and a close observer of all
                        
                  
                     1 On August 12, 1933, the writer of this article
                            delivered an address at Delphi, Indiana, under this title. The occasion
                            was the annual Old Settlers' Meeting of 
                                Carroll
                             County. The article as printed here is the address shorn of
                            the special introductory portion.
                  
                     2 Mrs. John H. Kinzie, Wau-Bun, the
                                Early Day in the Northwest (Phila., 1873).
               
                     their customs and traditions.3 Colonel Hatch was personally acquainted with the great Shawnee
                    leader, Tecumseh, and to him we are indebted for the best picture and
                    description of this celebrated warrior now extant. The early Shawnees are
                    represented by Colonel Hatch as being a noble, generous-hearted people, warmly
                    attached to their friends, and above all, honest. The second witness we summon
                    is General William Henry Harrison himself, who, in a remarkable tribute, to his
                    worthy antagonist along the 
                        Wabash
                    , says that Tecumseh "possessed more integrity than any
                    other of the chiefs who attained to much distinction."4 In his youth he had been taught by his elder brother, Cheeseekau, to
                    practice those cardinal Indian virtues of bravery in battle and fortitude in
                    suffering, but above all to speak the truth and to entertain nothing but
                    contempt for everything mean and sordid. The third witness we summon is Colonel
                    James Smith of 
                        Kentucky
                    , in his youth a captive among the Caughnawaga tribe of Indians in
                    the state of 
                        Ohio
                    . He left us a book of what he termed "Remarkable
                    Occurrences", published a few years after 
                        Kentucky
                     became a state. In this volume, he presents a most accurate and
                    interesting description of Indian habits, customs and traditions and describes
                    their almost perfect military tactics and operations in the field. Among other
                    accounts is the story that the Indian hunters, trapping or hunting in the late
                    fall or early winter, suspended their hides and peltries on high
                        scaffolding or in the branches of the trees out of the reach of the
                    wolves, and passed on to other fields without the least fear of molestation or
                        theft.5 Let us summon a fourth and last witness and one
                    at our very door. One of the earliest settlers on Mud Pine in 
                        Benton
                     County was the late Thomas Martin, a pioneer pedagogue and later a
                    justice of the peace. He was well and personally acquainted with many of the
                    early Potawatomi, always treated them with kindness and consideration, and
                    entertained no fear of bodily harm either to himself or family. The Indians
                    often stopped at his humble cabin for a drink of milk or some article of food
                    and were always welcome. His wife, Leah, however, becoming apprehensive shortly
                    after the time 
                  
                     3 William Stanley Hatch, A Chapter of
                                the History of the War of 1812 (Cinn., 1872).
                  
                     4 William Henry Harrison, A Discourse
                                on the Aborigines of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Valley (Cinn., 1839).
                  
                     5 James Smith, An Account of the
                                Remarkable Occurrences in the Life and Travels of Colonel James
                                Smith during his Captivity with the Indians, 1755-1759
                                    (
                        Lexington,
                                    Kentucky
                     ,
                            1799). 69, 74. This old book was reprinted at 
                                Cincinnati
                             in 1907 as No. 5 of the 
                                Ohio
                             Valley Historical Series.
                  
               
                     of the war with Black Hawk, Martin resolved
                    to retire for the winter to Newtown in 
                        Fountain
                     County, leaving a good patch of melons, and some chickens which he
                    was unable to transport. On his return in the spring he found the chickens
                    untouched and also found that the red man had respected his absence by keeping
                    away from his fields. Some of the great chiefs of the past, Cornplanter of the
                    Senecas, Cornstalk of the Shawnees, Little Turtle of the Miamis, Shaubena of the
                    Potawatomi, have each and all left an indelible imprint upon the pages of
                    history, which shall witness to their rectitude for all time to come.
            The red man was charitable, hospitable, and kindly to the poor. In most of the
                    Algonkian tribes of the Northwest there was a brotherhood or phratry of
                    individuals known as the Wolf clan. Among the 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi or Mascoutens, whose domain extended as far south as the 
                        Wabash
                    , this was one of the principal divisions of the tribe. The members
                    of this gens conceived of a peculiar affinity with that animal who, as they
                    said, had a "hard time in getting a living—who had nothing
                    to eat in the morning, and who had to get up early to get food." There
                    was something about the hardships, the sufferings, the bitter cold and
                    starvation which this animal had to endure, that was so akin to the experiences
                    of the red man himself, that he termed the wolf a "brother".
                    Strange to say, that in the chants of this clan, for all the clans had religious
                    chants attuned to the beat of the drum, there is an expression of some of the
                    most reverent thankfulness and humble gratitude to the Great Spirit for the many
                    gifts he has bestowed to be found anywhere in the whole Indian missal. In this
                    Wolf chant are these sublime words: "What little I have received, I
                    feel, is great."
            The red man then in the face of the great forces of Nature, the winds, the
                    thunders and the rain—in spring, summer, autumn and
                    winter—humbly received, and with all due obedience was humbly
                    thankful for, the gifts of 
                        Providence
                    . Nor did he forget that inasmuch as he had received, so should he
                    give unto others. One of the beautiful customs of the Mandan chiefs, as observed
                    by Catlin, was to suspend a pot of flesh in their tents by day and by night,
                    that he who was miserable and hungry might enter and have food.
                    "Such", says Catlin, "is the unvarying custom amongst
                    the North American Indians,  and I very much
                    doubt, whether the civilized world have in their institutions any system which
                    can properly be called more humane or charitable. Every man, woman, or child in
                    the Indian communities is allowed to enter any one's lodge, and even
                    that of the chief of the nation, and eat when they are hungry, provided
                    misfortune or necessity has driven them to it."6
            
            The Rev. John Heckewelder of Bethlehem, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , wrote in 1817 in regard to the Indian's respect for his
                    elders: 
                        There is no nation in the world who pay greater respect to old age than
                            the American Indians. From their infancy they are taught to be kind and
                            attentive to aged persons, and never to let them suffer for want of
                            necessaries or comforts. The parents spare no pains to impress upon the
                            minds of the children the conviction that they would draw down upon
                            themselves the anger of the Great Spirit, were they to neglect others
                            whom, in his goodness he had permitted to attain such an advanced age,
                            whom he had protected through all the perils and dangers of life, while
                            so many had perished by wars, accidents and sickness in various forms,
                            by the incantations of the wizard or stroke of the murderer, and not a
                            few by the consequences of their own improvident conduct.
                        It is a sacred principle among the Indians, and one of those moral and
                            religious truths which they have always before their eyes, that the
                            Great Spirit who created them, and provided them so abundantly with the
                            means of subsistence, made it the duty of parents to maintain and take
                            care of their children until they should be able to provide for them-selves, and that having while weak and helpless received
                                the benefits of maintenance, education and protection, they are
                            bound to repay them by a similar care of those who are labouring under
                            the infirmities of old age, and are no longer able to supply their own
                                wants.7
                  
                    
            
            A striking confirmation of this well known principle and custom is to be found in
                    the seventh chant of the Warrior clan of the 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi or Mascoutens heretofore mentioned, and which runs in
                    part as follows.
            
                    Now all the old men must take the lead around the fire. All the old people,
                        old women as well as men. Follow the four old people who take the lead to
                        take you to a long life. They know what to say, they know how to walk, they
                        know how to keep in the middle of the road. Follow the old people. Keep the
                        old people's way. The old people will hold you in the right way.
                        Respect them, try to maintain them the best 
                     
                        6 George Catlin, The North
                                    American Indians (Edinburgh, 1926). I, 138. The first
                                edition of this work was published in 
                                    New York
                                 in 1841 under a longer title.
                     
                        7 John G. E. Heckewelder, An
                                    Account of the History Manners ad Customs of the Indian Nations
                                    Who Once Inhabited 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     and Neighboring States (Memoirs of the
                                Historical Society of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , XII, 
                                    Philadelphia
                                , 1876), 163. This work was first published in 1817,
                                translated into German in 1821 and into French in 1822. It is a
                                remarkable treatment, celebrated for its fairness and candor.
                  
                         you can. Try to step in their tracks.
                        Try to step as close as you can to where they stepped. For they have learned
                        it in the right way.
                
            Hence it was that the older men, those ripest in experience, whether on the
                    battlefield or in the pursuits of peace, led the councils of the nation and
                    directed its policies. For a young man to insolently interrupt the discourse of
                    his superiors—to impertinently advance his own ideas in the face of
                    his elders—was regarded as a breach of decorum not to be tolerated.
                    "It does not become an Indian", says the old adage,
                    "to instruct his elders."
            The red man of old did not beat his child. Among the Potawatomi and the other
                    tribes of the 
                        Wabash
                     and the Great Lakes, the custom prevailed of sometimes ducking the
                    most disobedient or temporarily depriving such an offender of food, but to
                    strike him with a whip or to inflict corporal punishment upon him in the sense
                    generally understood, was wholly unknown. This was to break the
                    child's spirit and to humble his pride—a thing scarcely to
                    be tolerated among a people SO proud. The instruction of youth began at an early
                    period and the efforts of the parents were seconded and assisted by the aid of
                    the whole community. The instruction of the young males in the art of war, in
                    hunting, trapping or fishing, was always intrusted to the most proficient in
                    field or forest. An interesting spectacle was witnessed by George Catlin among
                    the Mandans of the upper 
                        Missouri
                     in the early thirties of the last century. At sunrise the young
                    boys of the village between the ages of seven and fifteen years were led out
                    into the meadows by a corps of efficient and experienced leaders, and put
                    through various and complicated military evolutions and practices for a period
                    of two hours. Feints—advances—retreats—close up
                    attacks, and a multitude of maneuvers and operations were gone through, much to
                    the interest and admiration of the onlookers and the edification of the
                    participants. "Some five or six miles of ground are run over during
                    these evolutions", says Catlin, "giving suppleness to their
                    limbs and strength to their muscles, which aid and benefit them through
                        life."8 Thus did the red man early inculcate
                    that admirable discipline that led to the overthrow and defeat of some of the
                    best-trained and veteran armies of both Europe and America. "They
                    were", says General William Henry Harrison, 
                  
                     8 Catlin, North American
                            Indians, I, 148.
               
                     "a body of the finest light troops
                    in the world",9 and this opinion is corroborated by
                    Anthony Wayne, who had some correct and first-hand knowledge of Indian tactics.
                    The tardy example of the colleges and universities who, after years of
                    procrastination and delay, have at last adopted the martial exercises to
                    encourage manliness, discipline, cleanliness and order, is but an
                    exemplification of the fact of how much we owe to the aborigines of America.
            We come now to an examination of the most admirable and the most praiseworthy of
                    the red man's many virtues. The Indian of Powhatan's, of
                    King Philip's day, was a man of majestic stature, both as to physique
                    and morals. The fermentation and distillation of liquors were wholly unknown to
                    him—the introduction of venereal disorders was the work of the white
                    man. That is the testimony of Heckewelder, Catlin, and others who profess to
                    know Indian character from the most intimate association. Even at this day after
                    having passed through so many unfortunate experiences, Indians are rarely of
                    ill-health, have square shoulders, sound teeth, and clear skins, and are
                    singularly exempt from many of those diseases brought about by a life of luxury
                    and pampered ease. The free, open, hard life of the river, the forest and the
                    plain gave birth to a creature who despised licentiousness and indulgence as
                    something inimical to his physical prowess and his fitness for the chase, The
                    undisputed fact remains that he was moral, clean, shunning all those corroding
                    influences which tended to impair his usefulness or enervate his arm. Of the
                    scores of young women taken captive from the settlements of 
                        Kentucky
                     not one was outraged or betrayed.
            The red man of the 
                        Wabash
                     worshipped no idol nor did he fall prostrate. There was nothing of
                    the slave either in his demeanor or in his religion. He lifted up his hands in
                    adoration of the Great Manito, Ketci Munito, or the Great Spirit, Creator of the
                    heavens and the earth. It was his proud claim that he required no books to guide
                    him in his duty, but that the will of his Maker was engraved upon his heart. It
                    was the story of an old warrior of Heckewelder's day, that he climbed
                    to the top of a high mountain or pinnacle to thank the Great Spirit for all the
                    benefits he had received and to pray for a continuance of His
                    favor—that he was sure his prayers were 
                  
                     9 Harrison, Aborigines of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Valley.
               
                     heard and were acceptable to the Manito,
                    though He Himself did not appear.
            Nor was the red man's conception of one universal, all-wise and
                    beneficent Being derived from the teachings of the early missionaries, French or
                    English. Heckewelder, who knew the Iroquois—Hatch, who knew the
                    Shawnees—Catlin, who painted and conversed with the chieftains of the
                    upper 
                        Missouri
                    —all testify that the tribes with whom they came in
                    contact were free from the worship of fetishes and idols and that they were
                    supplicants before the Great Manito. Interesting above all perhaps is the
                    account of Colonel Hatch who was conversant with the practices and beliefs of
                    our own Shawnees of the 
                        Wabash
                    . "They acknowledged," says he, "one
                    great, creating, overruling God, to whom they applied the perfectly correct
                    term, the ‘Great Spirit’, whose power they beheld in the
                    storm, the lightning, the thunder and the whirlwind; whose goodness and benign
                    influence they saw and felt in the genial breeze, the early flower, the growing
                    grass of the spring, the fowl of the air, the fish of every water, the multitude
                    of animals given for their use and feeding on every plain, and every hill, and
                    in every solitude."10
            
            From this concept, that the Great Spirit created the heavens and the earth, the
                    fruits of the ground and the beasts of the field, and gave them all for the
                    common good and benefit of mankind, springs the Indian idea of hospitality and
                    open-handedness towards the poor man and the stranger alike. For how could one
                    who had shared in these universal benefactions refuse unto others that which he
                    himself had so freely received. "With them", says Heckewelder,
                    "it (hospitality) is not a virture, but a strict duty."11
            
            Nor may anything better illustrate the red man's thankfulness for the
                    many gifts of the Great Spirit than the story we are about to relate. There is,
                    in the northeastern part of Ben-ton County, Indiana, a high point of ground
                    commonly known as Mount Gilboa. This is at the eastern extremity of a long, low
                    ridge extending almost due west into the plains of the 
                        Illinois
                    . Over this ridge, twice each year, passed the herds of buffalo,
                    which up to the year 1790 grazed upon the meadows and the grasslands of our
                    middle western world. Late in the 
                  
                     10 Hatch, Chapter of the History of
                                the War of 1812.
                  
                  
                     11 Heckewelder, Manners and Customs
                                of the Indian Nations, 101.
               
                     autumn the giant herds migrated to the
                    east, to escape the prairie fires and to seek shelter from the storms of winter
                    in the timberlands along the 
                        Wabash
                     and the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . Early in the following spring and when the shoots of the blue-stem
                    first appeared, they moved out into the prairies again, the great bulls at the
                    head of the line. The routes of these migrations from the
                    "heights" of Mount Gilboa were marked by two
                    trails—one extending to the north and east and towards the mouth of
                        Eel River, and one to the south and east and towards
                    the present city of Delphi.
            The coming of these herds in the springtime was most eagerly watched and prayed
                    for by the bands of the 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi or Mascoutens who wintered in the prairie groves. For to
                    them the buffalo was "the-man-who-runs-over-the-plains", the
                    living embodiment of the gifts and the munificence of the Great Manito, and the
                    creature upon which they and their women and children were largely dependent for
                    their food and clothing. What then were the paeans of joy when, after the long
                    winter famine, the gaunt and emaciated savage beheld for the first time the
                    mantle of green covering the hillsides and the slopes—when he saw the
                    grass and the flowers, and straining his eyes to the far-away horizon, he noted
                    the advent of the coming herds! And then that glorious morning when the first
                    forms of the approaching bison actually appeared silhouetted against the distant
                    sky line—when the whistles of reed and drums of skin were brought
                    forth, and the people joined in joyful acclaim of dance and song! Want and
                    hunger were at an end—the prayers of the faithful at last answered.
                    "Thank the Great Spirit", resounds the Buffalo chant,
                    "because you have learned about the buffalo. Thank Him for pitying us!
                    Thank Him for pitying me!"
            This is the brief summary of the characteristics of the Indians of the 
                        Wabash
                     Country. Whether it shall be said after a fair presentation of the
                    facts that the Indian was a monster, or whether it shall be admitted that he was
                    endowed with many of those attributes and qualities which mark the man, must be
                    left to the judgment of the candid and the just.12
            
            
               
                  12 For other works dealing with Indians on which the
                        writer has drawn, see: Allison Skinner, The Mascoutens or 
                                Prairie
                             Potowatomi Indians (Bulletin of the Public Museum of
                        the City of Milwaukee). This was published in 1924, and deals with rites and
                        ceremonies of the clans. Elmore Barce and Robert Swan, History
                            of Baton County, Indiana (1930). In volume I, there is an account
                        of Thomas 
                            Martin
                        . Elmore Barce, The Land of the Miamis
                        (Fowler, Ind., 1922).
            
         
         
         
            The Lincoln Legend1
            
            By CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            In his oration on those Athenians who died in the first year of the Peloponnesian
                    War, Pericles, according to Thucydides, led the thoughts of his audience from
                    the sepulchre where lay the remains of the dead to the memory of them in the
                    minds of men all over the world. This memory, he said, rather than the place of
                    their burial, was their true sepulchre: 
                        The sacrifice which they made is repaid to them; for they have received
                            again each one for himself a' praise which grows not old, and
                            the noblest of all sepulchres—I speak not of that in which
                            their remains are laid, but of that in which their glory survives, and
                            is proclaimed always and on every fitting occasion both in word and
                            deed. For the whole earth is the sepulchre of famous men; not only are
                            they commemorated by columns and inscriptions in their own country, but
                            in foreign lands there dwells also an unwritten memorial of them, graven
                            not on stone but in the hearts of men.2
                  
                    
            
            Of no man can it more truthfully be said than of Abraham Lincoln that not only in
                    his own land, but in foreign lands, there dwells an unwritten memorial, graven
                    in the hearts of men. Many are the monuments and statues which have commemorated
                    him: at the place of his birth at Hodgenville, 
                        Kentucky
                    ; at this, his boyhood home; at 
                        Washington
                    , where he carried the burden of a nation in civil war; and at
                            
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , the home of his
                    maturity and the resting place of his mortal remains; in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and 
                        Wabash
                     in our own state, in 
                        Louisville
                    , in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , in 
                        Chicago
                    , in 
                        San Francisco
                    , in 
                        Boston
                    , in 
                        Detroit
                    , in 
                        New York
                    , in Brooklyn, in Buffalo, in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , in 
                        Manchester
                     and 
                  London,
                            England
               , in Edinburgh, 
                        Scotland
                    , and in countless other places. More numerous still are the books
                    and pamphlets which have been written about him. In the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library, there is a Lincoln room in which more
                    than 4,000 such items are catalogued. A weekly periodical, Lincoln
                        Lore, is devoted wholly to him. The Abraham Lincoln Association is
                    compiling a series of volumes entitled Lincoln Day By Day, in
                    which it seeks to list his whereabouts and his activities every day during
                    certain years of his life at 
                        Springfield
                    . But more impressive than 
                  
                     1 An address delivered at the annual memorial
                            services of the 
                                Spencer
                             County Historical Sock? at Nancy Hanks Lincoln Park, 
                                Lincoln
                             City, Indiana, on May 28, 1933.
                  
                     2 Thucydides, II, 43.
               
                     all this array of stone and bronze and
                    literature, is the unwritten memorial of him graven in the hearts of men.
            He is known to those to whom the written word is a sealed book and to those who
                    have never beheld any monument or statue of him. Not only the negroes redeemed
                    from slavery, and their children, but the poor and oppressed of all lands carry
                    his homely image in their hearts as a symbol of sympathy and encouragement. The
                    rich and the powerful feel the sheer greatness of his character, unpretentious
                    though he was and utterly alien to all pomp and circumstance. Statesmen call
                    upon him as the sanction of their purposes and the pattern of their careers. The
                    learned, also, look on him with unwonted reverence. The most authoritative
                    historian of the Civil War period writes: "His truthfulness, honesty
                    and self-abnegation make better men of the students of his words and deeds and
                    we all experience a moral uplifting in the contemplation of his
                        character."3
            
            Thus Abraham Lincoln has become not merely a historical figure, recorded in the
                    annals of the 
                        United States
                    , but a universal hero. He has entered the realm of mythology, where
                    the same mysterious workings of the human mind, which in olden times created the
                    dim outlines of heroes and demigods, have made him a portent and an omen for the
                    modern world. He has come to be the incarnation of a great human experience, the
                    manifestation of a supreme power which exalts the lowly and strikes down the
                    proud, the protagonist of the common man rising to his height as ruler and
                    master of the world. As the Greek Prometheus was said to have brought down for
                    the use of men fire from heaven, so this Prometheus of the valley of the 
                        Ohio
                     and the prairies of 
                        Illinois
                     has been made to kindle in the hearts of men the spark of a new
                    destiny. His biography is not merely a narrative of facts and deeds; it is a
                    legend of the past which has become the symbol of a new world.
            The Lincoln legend, as it "dwells in the hearts of men" is
                    molded into a pattern something like this: He sprang from an obscure ancestry,
                    was born of poor, ignorant and illiterate parents" not much above the
                    very bottom of existence in the pioneer settlements,"4 and grew to manhood among crude and backward associates. Some mysterious
                    power, however, prevented him from succumbing to the inertness of his heredity
                        
                  
                     3 James Ford Rhodes History of the 
                                    United States
                                 from the Compromise of 1850 (
                                New York
                            , 1904). II, 143.
                  
                     4 John F. Morse, Jr., Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                
                      (
                                Boston
                            , 1889), I, 10.
               
                     and the influence of his environment. He
                    was the utmost contrast to both. Throughout his life he devoted himself
                    ceaselessly to the pursuit of knowledge, justice, and the redress of wrong. His
                    rugged honesty, his limitless sympathy and his prophetic insight finally won
                    national recognition and election to the presidency. He conducted the great
                    Civil War to redress the wrong of negro slavery and, just as the war was won, he
                    died a martyr in the cause of the freedom of the oppressed. Poor heredity,
                    adverse environment in his youth, and the iniquitous politics he confronted in
                    his maturity were the foils against which his unique greatness and goodness
                    shone. His homely face and gaunt figure were the very symbols of the eternal
                    struggle of the lowly for existence and for justice.
            The student of history is familiar with the process by which the real Lincoln and
                    the circumstances of his life developed into this legend. Memory is an
                    automatically selective process; some things stay in our minds, and some things
                    disappear from them. For the most part it is the salient, striking outlines
                    which remain. These become, by elimination and by repetition, exaggerated in
                    their proportions. On the earth's surface, as valleys and hills and
                    mountains are formed, the process of erosion leaves rock crags and hilltops and
                    mountains as outstanding features of the landscape. So in the speech and the
                    writing of generation after generation, great men are left alone as the
                    landmarks of history. They are stripped of their actual surroundings and of
                    their minor qualities. They become the personification of the great movements of
                    their time, mountain peaks with bold outlines against an empty sky.
            Generally speaking, love of truth is an acquired trait. Most young children do
                    not show any signs of it. Many never develop that eagerness to know the truth,
                    that supreme devotion to the effort to see things as they really are which is
                    the foundation of science and of history. Most men want to hear and to read that
                    which pleases them: they like to tell that which interests their audiences. An
                    early church father, glorifying his faith, exclaimed of a reported miracle:
                    "Other men may not believe it, because it is improbable; I believe it
                    because it is improbable." So the legend, starting about one man among
                    many, and about one circumstance out of thousands, takes shape according to the
                    inclination of those who cherish it.
            Abraham Lincoln, and the circumstances of his life, furnished  material which readily lends itself to the molding
                    influence of hero worship. The widest appeal of the Lincoln legend lies in the
                    contrast between the lowliness of his origin and the power and triumph to which
                    he attained, Naturally, his origin has become described as lowlier and lowlier
                    until, inevitably, he is pictured as growing up in the depths of poverty in the
                    midst of ignorant and shiftless people. His unaccountable greatness, on the
                    other hand, has been exalted until he could scarce recognize himself in the
                    picture legend has made of him. His first important biographer began the
                        process.5 He admired, he almost worshipped Lincoln. He
                    tried it seems, to tell the truth about him, but the mythological tendency was
                    strong within him and he cast his material in a mold which magnified the genius
                    of the mature Lincoln at the expense of his family and of his associates, until
                    the only explanation of his greatness the reader could make was that a
                    mysterious, divine inspiration possessed him.
            The character and career of Abraham Lincoln as seen in the light of sixty and
                    more years of historical study are quite different from the picture thus drawn.
                    His ancestry on his father's side has been traced back through seven
                    generations of sturdy, forward-looking American Lincolns, every one occupying a
                    respectable position in his community. The most distinctive feature of the
                    family was that it kept moving with the frontier—it was one of the
                    families which made the 
                        United States
                     a continental power by the development of new lands. His
                    mother's ancestry was more uneven, but she was of good pioneer stock.
                    Possibly she may have been of illegitimate birth, but her own character and
                    conduct were above reproach. Scandal mongers and ransackers of political garbage
                    have been busy, but they have found only the invention of their own malignant
                    imaginations. Nancy Hanks Lincoln will stand forever as the finest type of
                    motherhood in our pioneer days. The lonely grave on the hilltop beneath the oaks
                    where her remains lie side by side with those of other women who succumbed to
                    the sickness which ravaged this wilderness settlement, is a memorial of a life
                    as pure and as beneficent as that of any mother to whom a great man owed his
                    origin.
            The boy, Lincoln, grew up in a family which was never in actual want and which
                    always had property. He suffered the usual privations of pioneer life, remote
                    from the wealth and 
                  
                     5 William H. Herndon.
               
                     the accumulated advantages of long
                    developed lands. But his family and his neighbors were working upward toward
                    those advantages. The atmosphere was that of progress. Within the circle of
                    Lincoln's acquaintance were leaders in the march of the democracy in
                    which America glories. The popular 
                        Lincoln
                     legend, which has been reiterated by prominent historians, with its
                    emphasis upon the unfavorable environment of his early years, is a distortion of
                    his life. It is an injustice as well to a whole group of people to whom the
                    world owes gratitude for their contribution to the development of
                    Lincoln's character and talents.
            Lincoln himself knew the calibre of his early associates. In the very first days
                    of the War, in calling for four additional regiments, he wrote
                    "Probably they should come from the triangular region between the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Wabash
                     rivers, including my own old boyhood home."6 The study of Lincoln's own life and the study of the four
                    generations of people who have lived in southwestern Indiana alike show that the
                    fourteen years he spent in this neighborhood aided him in the path of leader.
                    ship and achievement. His environment was one of helpfulness, not of adversity;
                    it did not hold him back. It would not be the truth, but it would be nearer the
                    truth to say that Abraham Lincoln became the man he was because of his dwelling
                    here, than it would be to say that he achieved greatness in spite of the
                    conditions under which he lived here. He not only shared the life of his
                    neighbors, but their qualities as well. He was different from them only in his
                    superiority of intellectual and spiritual power.
            We cannot ignore the fact that the life of Indiana pioneers in the early
                    nineteenth century involved dangers and hardships. A well known genealogical
                    work, commenting on the first winter of the Lincoln family in Indiana, in a
                    half-faced log cabin, softened the picture by speaking of the mild climate of 
                        Spencer
                     County and left the impression that such an exposed dwelling was
                    not uncomfortable or even unpleasant.7 The diary of an
                        Ohio River steamboat captain for that winter, however,
                    records temperature below zero on the river near 
                  
                     6
                            
                                Lincoln
                             to the Secretary of War, 
                                Washington
                            , June 17, 1861, in John G. Nicolay and John Hay (editors),
                                Complete Works of Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1905), VI, 291-292. This letter is printed in fac simile in Indiana Historical Society Publications, VIII (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1925), 3.
                  
                     7 James Henry Lea and J. R. Hutchinson, The Ancestry of Abraham Lincoln (
                                Boston
                            , 1909).
               
                     this place. Even the best of log cabins was
                    an undesirable residence. All that can be said in its favor was that it was the
                    only kind the pioneers of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley could possibly erect. There were trials and hardships
                    aplenty for the Lincoln family, as well as for its neighbors, but the
                    necessities of life were present and the environment was a spur to ambition, and
                    an incentive to progress.
            It is doubtful whether the multiplying of advantages, which more recent years
                    have given us, compensate for the dulling of the eagerness to learn and ambition
                    to lead others forward which developed in the youthful Lincoln, who had only
                    about a year's formal schooling and who walked miles to get books. It
                    almost seems that by the law of diminishing returns improvement of educational
                    facilities and increase in the ease and comfort of life deaden the eagerness for
                    knowledge and the desire for mastery which are the only basis of education. In
                    the case of 
                        Lincoln
                    , the balance between opportunity and desire was such that it gave
                    the greatest possible impetus to the development of his character and ability.
            In tracing the outlines of Lincoln's career, we pass to
                            
                  Springfield, Illinois
               . Here the full
                    grown man earned his living by the practice of law and found his chief interest
                    in politics. As a lawyer, he was not a constant and profound student. He worked
                    not so much on the plane of the principles of the prevailing legal system, nor
                    of precedent, as on the particular facts in the case in which he engaged. He
                    became one of the leading lawyers of central 
                        Illinois
                    . His reputation as a lawyer, however, was almost confined to this
                    region. In an important case conducted by counsel of national reputation, he was
                    slighted to the point of insult. As a politician, he was a leading member of the
                    Whig organization in the capital of his state. His political work in his
                    precinct and ward and state was rewarded by one term in Congress. He sought
                    federal appointments, but not receiving the ones he wanted he declined others.
            Often disappointed with himself and his career, sometimes to the point of black
                    melancholy, he was nevertheless accounted one of the most successful, one of the
                    leading citizens of his section. He accumulated property and was able to send
                    his oldest son to 
                        Harvard
                     College for the completion of his education,  something not so common in those days in that part
                    of the country as it now is.
            When the extension of slavery became an acute question, it found
                    Lincoln's party disorganized, divided and almost moribund. A new
                    party, opposed to the admission of slavery into new territories, but not
                    committed to its abolition in the states where it was already established, was
                    talked of, and its organization begun. Far from being its leader, 
                        Lincoln
                     at first held back. It was only when violent opposition to the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act had already assumed proportions which definitely assured the
                    new Republican party the support of most of the northern Whigs and many of the
                    Democrats, that he became one of its sponsors. Far from seeing the end from the
                    beginning, he slowly worked his way to the center of the problem. He was as far
                    as he could possibly be from the little group of crusaders whose lives were
                    spent in agitation against slavery as wrong in principle and inhuman in
                    practice. Only later, under the pressure of events and the responsibilities of
                    government did he come to the program of abolition.
            It was his intensive training in 
                        Illinois
                     politics, as well as his reasoned convictions, which between 1854
                    and 1860 put him into the place of the logical leader of the Republican party.
                    His marvelous ability to gauge public sentiment, his mastery of the essentials
                    of political organization, the sureness of his judgment, made him the one man
                    capable of crystallizing into action the confused opinions and fictions of the
                    time. The fact that he did this was not so apparent at the time, even to his
                    associates and to his most ardent supporters, as it is to us today. Had he been
                    a crusader against slavery, he could never have been nominated for the
                    presidency; had he been nominated, he would have been defeated; had he become
                    president, the attempt to restore the southern states to the 
                        Union
                     would have been foredoomed to failure from the first. The
                    explanation of his success, the most striking element of his genius, was the
                    accuracy of his knowledge of public opinion. His force of character, his
                    intellectual grasp of problems, his power of perfect expression made him a
                    leader; his sure judgment of his associates and of people generally made him a
                    successful leader.
            In his debates with Stephen A. Douglas, he made the most of the break between
                    Douglas and the administration. He  tried to
                    fasten on his opponent the stigma of opening the northern territories to slavery
                    while at the same time he took advantage of the opposition of the proslavery
                    Democrats to Douglas on account of his denunciation of the effort to force
                    slavery upon 
                        Kansas
                    . Lincoln himself at times during the debates was on the defensive
                    because in his "House Divided" speech at the opening of the
                    campaign he had gone beyond public opinion in hinting at the ultimate extinction
                    of slavery. He was greatly concerned to show that he was not an anti-slavery
                    radical; that he tried only to prove that there was a legitimate place under the
                    constitution for the half-way measure of keeping slavery out of the territories.
                    Only incidentally, almost casually, did he allude to the ideal of an
                    organization of society in which every man should enjoy the results of his own
                    labor.
            In spite of the opposition of the national administration, Douglas won the
                    election, but his own party made his position of 1858 untenable in 1860.
                    Lincoln's position, difficult as it was to maintain in 1858, was
                    chosen not only as his solution of the crisis precipitated by the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     trouble and the Dred 
                        Scott
                     decision, but as the strategic rallying point of public opinion in
                    the north. His strength lay not less in his judge. ment of the latter than of
                    the former.
            After his nomination and election as President came the crisis of secession.
                    Again he proved his marvellous command of the currents of popular opinion in
                    standing firm against any compromise which would extend slavery and in holding
                    the border states, save 
                        Virginia
                    , in support of the 
                        Union
                    . Then and later, when the magnitude of the Civil War became
                    apparent, he spoke of slavery in the southern states in language strangely
                    reminiscent of Douglas in 1858. He would not attack slavery there if such an
                    attack would make it more difficult to restore the 
                        Union
                    , but save the 
                        Union
                     he would, with or without slavery. Douglas, however, in 1858 would
                    have preserved the 
                        Union
                     by yielding ground, not beyond a certain limit it is true, to a
                    minority and to a disruptive force. Lincoln in 1861 and 1862 would save the 
                        Union
                     as a national government expressive of the will of the whole
                    people.
            He finally took action against slavery in the seceded states. His action then was
                    based, not so much on principle, as on his judgement of public opinion. It was
                    not an end in itself, but  only the means to
                    the larger end of national unity under the rule of the majority. The
                    Emancipation Proclamation, by its very terms, applied only to those parts of the
                    country still in the possession of the Confederates; generally speaking, only to
                    those regions where it could not at the time be enforced. Public sentiment then
                    supported it; its influence was as timely as it was powerful, not only in this
                    country, but also in 
                        England
                    .
            Lincoln believed that secession and the Civil War involved more than slavery;
                    that they involved the existence, even the possibility, of democracy. If the
                    majority of the people could not enforce its law upon a minority, however
                    powerful, "government of the people, by the people, for the
                    people" could not endure. It was as the prophet and the statesman of
                    democratic nationalism, rather than as an emancipator or as an inspired hero of
                    social justice, that he became the "first American."
            Both Lincoln's political principles and his unequaled ability to apply
                    them to each crisis in the measure that public opinion could be brought to their
                    support were the result of his experiences and his associations in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . His democratic nationalism he absorbed here in 
                        Spencer
                     County and over in Sangamon County. His sensitive accuracy in
                    gauging public opinion came from his intimate contact with the boys and the men
                    of his neighborhood. He was not the abstract genius that legend has made him,
                    aloof from the crowd and distinguished from it by an unique divine endowment. He
                    was in every sense one of the people, one of the people of the pioneer west of
                    the first half of the nineteenth century. Every quality he had he shared with
                    friends and models of his boyhood. His environment emphasized human equality,
                    ambition, nationalism, shrewdness and native wit.
            Legend says, and not a few biographers have patterned their work upon it: See
                    from what unfavorable surroundings the great man arose; see how inexplicably
                    great he was in the contrast he presents to his family and his environment! We
                    can say with much more truthfulness: See what qualities the pioneers of the
                    Middle West possessed, see the product of American ancestors and the Old
                    Northwest! If we lessen the contrast which legend draws between an adverse
                    environment and a supreme achievement, we do not lessen the greatness of  Abraham Lincoln. If we draw the picture of
                    a man who developed gradually under the influence of an invigorating environment
                    and a democratic frontier, a man who joined in movements rather than creating
                    them, we disclose his power of seeing far more clearly than his neighbors into
                    the heart and the meaning of those movements. He towered above his fellows, but
                    he never ceased to be one of them.
            The people who lived here in his boyhood, our own forefathers, cannot be
                    represented as the uncouth, unpromising figures of the 
                        Lincoln
                     legend, standing for the depths from which he rose. They were the
                    sturdy, capable builders of American democracy. They leveled the wilderness,
                    they tilled the land, they mastered the mighty rivers,8 they
                    built a new world in the heart of the continent. These plains, hills and
                    valleys, whose primeval forests 
                        Lincoln
                     helped to fell, are not alone reminders of his early hardships,
                    they are the more pleasant to look upon because they nurtured the greatness
                    which the world afterwards saw in him.
            
               
                  8 Stephen Beck Hanks, first cousin of Abraham Lincoln,
                        was one of the most famous of 
                            Mississippi
                         River pilots.
            
         
         
         
            The 
                        Wabash
                     County Pioneer Society1
            
            By LEOLA HOCKETT
            
            Success in any enterprise depends largely upon a proper beginning, and a proper
                    beginning is the result of wisdom and forethought. It was the forethought, the
                    courage, the determination, the energy and the sacrifices of the pioneers that
                    laid the foundation for the wonderful progress made by 
                        Wabash
                     County in the past ninety-six years.
            To be a pioneer in the settling of 
                        Wabash
                     county meant leaving relatives and friends and traveling with an ox
                    team through dense forests to the spot selected for a new home. It meant cutting
                    roads as the colonists went along; sleeping (until a cabin was ready) on beds
                    made on forked sticks driven into the ground, with stakes at the corners around
                    which a blanket was fastened to keep away mosquitoes; cutting timber, preparing
                    the logs and building a cabin with a stick and clay chimney, dirt floor, greased
                    paper for window panes and blankets hung over the doorway; it meant clearing the
                    land, burning the logs and pulling stumps before the crops on which the settlers
                    and their live stock must live could be planted. It often meant hunger for both
                    the pioneers and their stock and sometimes starvation for the latter. It meant
                    homes on which the sun never shown except at midday with the nearest neighbors
                    miles away and the trail between cabins marked by blazed trees; swamps with
                    malaria and ague and no physician within reach; spinning and weaving of the
                    cloth from which clothing and bedding were made; threshing grain with a flail;
                    carrying corn and wheat on horseback to the nearest grist mill, sometimes ten,
                    fifteen or even forty miles away; log school houses with backless seats;
                    teachers whose fitness for teaching was too often determined by their
                    proficiency in the use of the rod; weeks between letters from the folks back
                    home, and the howl of wolves from sunset until dawn.
            Long since the swamps and frog ponds have been eliminated by networks of ditches;
                    the plank and corduroy roads are buried far beneath paved highways; the tallow
                    candles have melted away in the glare of electric lights; the flail and
                    treadmill have vanished to the hum of the threshing machine; the music of the
                    spinning wheels has been changed to the whir 
                  
                     1 This paper was read at the third annual meeting
                            of the Old Settlers' Association of 
                                Wabash
                             County on Sept. 5, 1927.
               
                     of machinery; the rattle of the linchpin
                    wagon with its swinging tar bucket, and the steady beat of hoofs can not be
                    compared with the noiseless turning of wheels and the purr of motors; the canal
                    with its once familiar boats and towpath was long ago overwhelmed by steam and
                    electricity; the slow, patient oxen have been lost to sight in the speed of the
                    tractor; the primevil forests have fallen and disappeared to give place to the
                    fertile fields of today; the tinkle of the cow-bell has been replaced by the
                    jingle of the dairyman's bottles; the blazed trail to the neighbors
                    has been changed by magic to a telephone wire that brings those neighbors within
                    speaking distance.
            Most of the colonists2 who reached 
                        Wabash
                     county by 1835 were poor in this world's goods, and the
                    obstacles that beset them on all sides would be appalling to us. We owe a debt
                    of gratitude to them that can best be paid by perpetuating in the minds of the
                    people of the County of their choice the memory of their courage, perseverance
                    and sacrifices.
            With this thought in view a number of the residents of the county, forty-two
                    years after the coming of the first settler, met at the office of Sivey
                    & Mackey on August 30, 1870, to discuss the holding of an annual
                    get-together of the pioneers. A resolution defining and classifying old settlers
                    was adopted. 
                  
                            
                        2 In the records of the old Pioneer Society of 
                                    Wabash
                                 County are found the following names of persons with
                                the year in which they came, who were settlers of the County at the
                                time of its organization in 1835: Ephriam Kellar, 1828: Harriet
                                Stewart 1830; Nelson M. Quick, 1831: Nathaniel Chites, Daniel Sayre,
                                James Curry and Parmelia Peabody, 1832: John Russell, Elizabeth
                                Graves, Daniel Fowler, Philip Martin, Samuel Abbott, Benedict Lowry,
                                William Pearson, Allen W. Smith, Catherine Stitt, Newton Fowler,
                                Lodema Robinson and Eliza Ann Abbott, 1834; Enos Thomas, Adam
                                Graves, Henry Garner, John V. Reed and Hugh Hanna, 1835.
                            Since the Pioneer Society was not organized until 1870, a great many
                                of the early settlers had died, while some had left the County. The
                                above names constitute but a partial list of the settlers in the
                                County at the time of organization. The records of the first meeting
                                of the County Commissioners which was held in June, 1836, contain
                                the names of the three commissioners, the Brand and petit jurors who
                                were appointed at the meeting, and the names of those affixed to
                                road, grocery, tavern and ferry petitions for licenses. These
                                citizens were very probably all voters and freeholders. The names
                                arranged by townships are listed below:
                            
                        
                                    Noble
                                 Township: Abraham Rensinger, Lemuel Willy, William H.
                                Coomley, James W. Wilson, William Dickerson, P. S. Myers, Jonathan
                                Kellar, William McClelland, Simon S. Edsall, S. M. Simons, John
                                Burton, James H. Kellar, William Iliff, Isaac Finley, James Hopkins,
                                William Steel, Sr., P. D. Duffer, Isaac Thomas, Ira Burr, David
                                Cassatt, Samuel Leach, D. W. Beeson, J. G. Jones, James A. Kelley,
                                Lucas Morgan, John Stuard, Peter Mills, A. H. Kellar, David Burr,
                                Ezekial Cox, Sylvan McLane, Madison Sweetzer, John Koogle, William
                                Johnston, Patrick' Brady, A. Murphy, Bradley Burr, Hugh
                                Hanna, William Salmon, John Schnider, Michael Duffer, William
                                Sewell, Archibald Stitt, Elmore Cox, Joseph McClure, William Steele,
                                Jr.
                            Lagro Township: B. F. Lowery, L. E. Stover, Jonas Gallahan, A.
                                Brenneman, William Caldwell, Michael Shappell, Nathaniel Fitch,
                                Thomas Forrest, P. Laftis, Jacob Shappell, Thomas Hamilton, David
                                Shappell, Jesse Seeley, Jirah Barlow, E. B. Homer, Dennis Cohan,
                                Bingemon Enmore, John Driscoll, James Edward, John Picca, Vincent
                                Hooten, L. B. Woodward, George Weller, John Rusell, F. Gridley, M.
                                Halstead, Perkins Guinan, Charles Fadden. Bryant Finnan, James
                                Driscoll, Jonathan Reed, James Ballenger.
                            Liberty Township: Ezra Hoover, Peter Mellinger. Jeremiah Garrison,
                                John Manning. John Summers, J. G. Thompson, Henry Stevens, William
                                Bennet and Asa Brown.
                        
               
                     All who came to the County prior to January
                    1, 1836, were to make up the first class and to be designated by red badges;
                    those who came between January 1,1836, and January 1,1841, were placed in a
                    second class and assigned white badges; all who came between January 1,1841, and
                    January 1, 1846, were to make up the third class and were to wear blue badges. A
                    second meeting was held at the old court house on September 10, 1870, at which
                    time committees were appointed and arrangements made for a "Grand
                    Basket Picnic" to be held at the Fair Grounds on September 29. Posters
                    advertising the meting were scattered over the County. All persons attending,
                    "both old settlers and citizens," were asked to bring baskets
                    of "provisions for an old fashioned picnic dinner". People
                    having relics such as books, manuscripts or other old articles were urged to
                    bring them to the meeting for exhibition. The various musical organizations of
                    the city were invited and each township was asked to come en
                    masse under the direction of a township leader.
            The meeting was scheduled to last all day with an intermission for dinner. The
                    program consisted of "speeches (no speech to be longer than ten minutes
                    without consent of the meeting), addresses, reminiscences of early settlements,
                    exhibition of relics", etc., interspersed with music, The committee on
                    arrangements was composed of the following from the townships mentioned: Allen
                    W. Smith, J. D. Conner, Stearns Fisher, B. F. Williams, J. C. Sivey and Elijah
                    Hackle-man of 
                        Noble
                    ; John Comstock and Joshua Farley of 
                        Chester
                    ; William Hale and Mahlon Pearson of Liberty; B. W. Lowery and John
                    Watkins of LaGro; Jacob Rantz and L. C. Groninger of Pleasant; and Nathan
                    Weesner and Tobias Miller of Waltz.
            As had been planned, a "procession" which formed at the public
                    square, was led by William T. Ross, marshall and chairman, to the Fair Grounds
                    marching in the following order: Reds (first class), Whites (second class),
                    Blues (third class), other Citizens. Some were on foot and some in wagons and
                    carriages, while those on horseback were at the rear. About two hundred people
                    were included in that first parade.
            A roll call of the first jurors of the County was answered by B. W. Lowery and
                    Mahlon Pearson. Each gave some of his experiences in the first court held in the
                    county, which was back in August, 1836. Sterns Fisher, the only survivor of the
                    first commissioner's court informed his hearers that there  were but twelve families in the entire
                    county at the time of his arrival. Other talks were given by George Abbot,
                    Daniel Sayre, Henry Strickler, Allen W. Smith, Robert Miller and Dr. James Ford.
                    There is no doubt, whatever, that much county history was lost because no record
                    was kept of that meeting.
            A second meeting was held at the same place in 1871. The committee arranged for
                    another parade but visitors coming in wagons drove directly to the Fair Grounds.
                    That being the usual mode of transportation for those coming from a distance,
                    there were few left to form a "procession". At that meeting,
                    there were three hundred who wore the red, white and blue badges. In reporting
                    this meeting the 
                  
                            Wabash
                         Republican. wisely suggested that the old settlers form an
                    organization to record their memorials, preserve their relics and add more
                    system to their jubilees.
            The tradition is that meetings were held each year, but the next meeting for
                    which any record has been found was that of 1879. On September 5 of that year,
                    at the call of a few citizens, a meeting was held at the court house at
                    "one and a half o'clock P.M." for the purpose of
                    forming an organization. Benjamin McClure was appointed temporary chairman and
                    E. S. Rose secretary. A committee, composed of J. C. Sivey and A. P. Ferry of 
                        Noble
                    , Stephen Lewis of Liberty, James Anderson of Waltz, Henry Strickler
                    of 
                        Chester
                    , Daniel Schuler of Pleasant, Robert Ambers of Paw Paw and Reason
                    Badger of LaGro townships, drafted a constitution which was adopted at the
                    meeting.
            The first article gave the organization the name The 
                            Wabash
                         County Indiana Pioneer Society. The second gave as its
                    object "Co-operation with the township old settlers organizations in
                    collecting, preserving and sometimes publishing biographical sketches of the
                    early settlers of the county and other interesting matter in reference to the
                    early settlements of the county". The fifth article confined membership
                    in the society to "all citizens over fifty years of age who had resided
                    in the county thirty years; to all citizens born in the county who had reached
                    the age of thirty-five and their wives and daughters, by signing the
                    constitution". Three years later the first requirement was changed to
                    "all citizens over thirty years of age."
            Officers of the organization were: a president, seven vice presidents (one from
                    each township), a secretary, a treasurer 
                    and an executive committee of nine members. The constitution was amended later,
                    after which there was to be but one vice president. The first officers were:
                    Allen W. Smith, president; B. W. Lowery, Jonathan Scott, Henry Strickler, Samuel
                    Gamble, Daniel Schuler, James Anderson and John U. Pettit, vice presidents; B.
                    E. Davis, secretary; and, E. F. Thomas, treasurer.
            By order of the executive committee a meeting was held at the Fair Grounds on
                    September 11 [1879] "for the purpose of receiving signatures of old
                    settlers who wished to become members". A newspaper of Sept. 3, 1880,
                    records that, "An old settlers meeting at one P.M. was a feature of the
                    county fair". It was decided to hold an Old Settler's Picnic
                    on Thursday, Oct. 31. For some reason the meeting was postponed until the first
                    Thursday of the following June, when, "for lack of proper
                    notice" it was again postponed until June 24. On that day, eleven years
                    after the first meeting and two years after the organization of the Pioneer
                    Society, the annual reunions were really begun8
            
            Elijah Hackleman kept the records of the Society from 1887 until his death in
                    1901. The 
                  
                            Wabash
                         Tribune of Oct. 3, 1895, contained the following: 
                        The Tribune reporter was permitted to look over the books of the
                            association which have been kept so many years with such painstaking
                            care by the Hon. Elijah Hackleman. The names of the old settlers, the
                            history of each meeting, the records of all deaths within the
                            organization are all there. Besides all this, newspaper reports
                            referring to the organization have been neatly pasted into the book in
                            connection with the secretary's careful reports. The book is
                            valuable as being an accurate history of the county and probably
                            contains historical dates not to be found elsewhere.
                    
            
            All except two of the meetings were held in the old Fair Grounds. On August 25,
                    1856, the old settlers were the guests 
                  
                     8 Presidents of the Pioneer Society, each of whom
                            served one year unless otherwise indicated. were: Allen W. Smith, J. D.
                            Connor (six years), Elijah Hackleman (four years), B. F. Williams (five
                            years), J. S. Carpther, S. L. Gamble, Henry Froninger, Nathaniel
                            Bannister, Port Noftzger, Warren Sayre (four years), Thomas McNamee,
                            Clark Weesner (seven years), Fred J. King, Joe Davis, Alvah Taylor. The
                            last name was chosen in 1917, for a year, but no successor was elected,
                            so he may be said to have remained president of the Society till the
                            organization of the new Old Settlers' Association in 1924.
                            Secretaries of the Society were: B. E. Davis, Elijah Hackleman, B. F.
                            Williams, George A. Wellman, Charles S. Rose, C. H. Lasalle, James
                            Showalter, M. D. F. Crume, Andrew Urshell, and James P. Ross. One of
                            these, Elijah Hackleman, served for a long period, keeping the records
                            faithfully from 1887 to his death in 1901. Treasurers of the Society
                            were: E. F. Thomas, Asa Ross, John Latchem, J. D. Conner, H. B.
                            Lassalle, Thomas McNamee, S. J. Payne, O. L. Talmadge, Henry Sayre, and
                            Alexander Hess. A committee of three was always appointed early each
                            year to nominate the officers for the following year.
               
                     of the James H. Emmet Post, G.A.R., at the
                    Art Loan Exhibition that was being held by them in the city. They were
                    entertained at the exhibition in the morning and at the city hall in the
                    afternoon. They probably re-lived old times more thoroughly at that meeting than
                    at any other ever held by the Society. The fireplace of antique construction,
                    the primitive cooking utensils, the corn-pone and the dodger on the hearth, the
                    candles and lard lamps, the well-sweep, the cradle in which many a pioneer
                    infant had been lulled to sleep, the indispensible catnip hanging near, old
                    ladies spinning flax, the dummy, patiently displaying female finery of former
                    days, and the rude farming implements on exhibition were most conducive to the
                    reminiscent mood in which the visitors found themselves when they assembled at
                    the new city hall where they were addressed by Judge Horace P. Biddle of 
                        Logansport
                    .
            A feature of the morning program was the appearance on the stage of George Myers
                    with the fiddle which he had used when playing for the celebration on July 4,
                    1837. This was when the first boat ploughed its way into the city of 
                        Wabash
                     through the "raging billows" of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal. Mr. Myers with his fiddle appeared on the programs
                    at other meetings.
            The meeting of 1888 was held in the new Fair Grounds where the Pioneers had the
                    use of the amphitheater and the judges' stand. Next year the meeting
                    went back to the old Fair Grounds which had become a city park. In 1896
                    "Because of the political unrest that prevailed throughout the country
                    it was next to impossible to collect together the old settlers in such numbers
                    as to be enjoyable and profitable in the sense contemplated by the
                    society", so no reunion was held that year. Meetings occurred each year
                    after that until 1917. The officers and directors met in the summer of that year
                    and appointed committees to raise funds with which to meet the expenses of the
                    coming reunion, but on August 31, it was agreed that since the day for the
                    meeting was the same as that set for the "departure of the first boys
                    for the World War training camps it would be impracticable to hold it on that
                    day." It was accordingly postponed until the regular day in 1918. When
                    that time came no meeting was held "because of the conditions brought
                    about by the war". And so ended the original 
                        Wabash
                     County Pioneer Society. In 1924 an association  was formed, since known as the Old
                    Settlers' Association of 
                        Wabash
                     County.
            Meetings of the old Pioneer Society were held under the trees with a temporary
                    platform for the speakers. Men would come to the grove before the day of the
                    meeting and arrange seats for the comfort of the visitors. After the band-stand
                    was built, the programs were given from that place. In 1911 for the first time
                    in the history of the organization, the Pioneers met under cover, a big
                    Chautauqua tent having been rented for that purpose. Once again the tent was
                    used, then the pavillion in the city park was built, after which time the
                    Pioneers and later the "Old Settlers" have been able to laugh
                    at the weather and enjoy their sessions in comfort.
            A few relics appeared at the first meeting, then the number was increased as
                    interest in the annual reunions developed. In 1888 Dr. Ford suggested that the
                    society ask the county for a room, preferably in the court house, in which to
                    keep the collection. However, nothing seems to have been done towards securing a
                    safe place in which to store the treasurers of the Society until twenty years
                    later when plans were begun for the erection of a log cabin of the pioneer type
                    in which to keep the accumulated relics near the place of the meeting.
            Through the untiring efforts of Clarke Weesner, president of the Society, the
                    cabin became a reality in 1909. It was dedicated on the one hundredth
                    anniversary of the birth of Abraham Lincoln and is known as the
                    "Lincoln Cabin". That year was also the seventy-fifth
                    anniversary of the founding of the city of 
                        Wabash
                     and both events were fittingly commemorated with a two-day
                    celebration. The number of visitors on the first day was estimated at five
                    thousand, the "Cabin" with its contents being the center of
                    attraction.
            An opportunity was always given to the older people to participate in the
                    programs. They told of their early experiences contrasting pioneer days with
                    modern days, and all agreed, with one exception, that the new ways were a
                    decided improvement over the old. One man, the only pessimist contributing to
                    the records of the Society, expressed the opinion that the human race in this
                    section of the country was degenerating; that the inventions and discoveries of
                    the new age were of very little benefit to humanity; that children were
                    compelled to attend school to the detriment of their physical development, and
                    that he "feared for the final outcome".
            
            Many prominent men appeared upon the programs as the years passed, among them
                    being: Demarcus Brown, State Librarian, Gov. James A. Mount, Judge Lemuel Royce
                    of 
                        Warsaw
                    , Judge Horace P. Biddle of 
                        Logansport
                    , Lou Beauchamp, the humorist, and Thomas St. John of 
                        Marion
                    . At one meeting, immediately after Judge Royce began his address,
                    "a thunder storm came up and suddenly the audience adjourned, sans
                    ceremony". The Judge was given another opportunity and finished his
                    speech a year later.
            Until 1894, it seems, the men were the only old settlers who ever made any
                    remarks regarded as worthy of being recorded. Then the pioneer women were asked
                    to relate some of their experiences, and since that time they have asserted
                    their right to be heard as well as to be seen. Twice, since 1894, the Board of
                    Directors has been composed entirely of women, and each meeting conducted solely
                    by the ladies was reported as having been the most successful ever held to the
                    time.
            Every musical organization in the county—each band, orchestra and
                    quartette—entertained the crowds with music at one time or another.
                    Occasionally songs by a volunteer chorus added much to the program. At the
                    meeting in 1888, a choir, dressed in costumes of half a century earlier, sang
                    old time songs. Again the old fiddle in the hands of Sanford Honeywell, recalled
                    old times with such tunes as the "Arkansaw Traveler" and
                    "Money Musk".
            The year 1898 saw a departure from the programs of former days, with the
                    inauguration of games, athletic and other contests and prizes at the morning
                    session. Bicycle races were the order on the day of the first contests. In one
                    race the contestants rode old style high bicycles wearing "stiff hats,
                    long frock coats, knee breeches and stockings." Another race was the
                    "Married Man's Handicap" in which each man was
                    given ten yards for each child he might have, while bachelors of thirty years
                    and over were required to "start from scratch." This was a
                    source of much merriment. The last bicycle race, for "scorchers with
                    monkey stoop", was followed by a ten minute grand parade of all
                    cyclists in costume.
            Prizes were given for horse back riding, jumping, and shot-put, as well as to the
                    oldest married couple and the couple having lived longest in the county. One
                    year a prize of five dollars was offered to the mother having reared the largest
                    family. The five dollars had to be divided among Mrs. Philip Hipskind,  Mrs. John Schlemmer, Mrs. Christian Clupper
                    and Mrs. Richard Elward, each having twelve living children. The entrance into
                    the contests of 1901 of the horseless carriage indicated that the old pioneer
                    order of things was indeed but a memory. Two prizes were given for the
                    automobile events, one for speed and one for management.
            One year the prizes were given by the merchants of the city of 
                        Wabash
                     and included the following articles: a gold watch and chain, a
                    banquet lamp, a bicycle lamp, eleven boxes of cigars, a razor, a campaign hat, a
                    bottle of dandruff cure, an umbrella, a pipe, a package of fancy writing paper,
                    a pair of slippers, a pipe and case, a fine shirt, a pocket knife, a pair of
                    leggings, a pocket-book, a pair of gold cuff buttons, a Windsor necktie, a ball,
                    $1.50 in livery hire, open cab and driver for two hours, seven pounds
                    of "wiener wursts" and a box of toilet soap.
            Often a parade was a big feature of the day, when all sorts of ancient
                    conveyances were used. Also the young pioneer family on horseback appeared, the
                    husband on the old family horse with his good wife seated behind, her arm
                    encircling his portly form, each dressed in costumes of bygone days. One old man
                    came in a military suit that he had worn sixty years before. He wore a cockade
                    hat, white trousers, blue cloth coat with shining brass buttons and carried an
                    old flintlock gun which made him the observed of all observers. Another old man
                    of eighty years walked ten miles to the meeting carrying a bundle of old books.
            The expenses of the reunions were met by voluntary contributions. The speakers
                    must be paid and sometimes as much as $30 was paid to one musical
                    organization besides the cost of entertainment. One year the erection of a stand
                    alone cost $115. Water must be hauled to the fair grounds and tin
                    cups rented, organs rented and draymen paid for taking them to and from the
                    grounds. There was always the expense of printing notices and hand bills. Some
                    years there would not be sufficient funds in the treasury to meet all expenses
                    and at other times there would be a neat little sum left.
            In 1888 the practice of reading the names of the members who had passed away
                    since the preceding meeting was inaugurated. In looking over the lists one finds
                    that 
                        Wabash
                     county is a land of long-lived people. The records show two who passed the century mark, one within a few days of one
                     hundred years, three more who were
                    ninety-nine, fifty-six between ninety and one hundred and three hundred
                    seventy-five who were between eighty and ninety—certainly an unusual
                    number, each of whom reached a ripe old age.
            Those were truly grand reunions of brave men and women, to whose strong arms and
                    self sacrificing lives we owe much that we enjoy today. They met and recalled
                    the hardships and pleasures, the disappointments and triumphs of days long
                    passed. They came, with silvered hair, with quavering voices and faltering
                    steps, but their hearts grew young again as they lived once more, in memory,
                    through the days of cabin raisin's, log rollin's,
                    huskin' bees, quiltin's and maple sugar makin'.
                    So realistically did they picture the old days that listeners caught the pioneer
                    spirit and fancied themselves going forth with hearts full of courage and desire
                    for adventures to conquer an unsettled wilderness.
            In greetings sent to the Society in 1908, William Jennings Bryan said:
                    "We should never lose sight of the debt we owe to those who took the
                    lead in the opening up and settlement of our country. Many of the comforts and
                    privileges we enjoy today are due to the hardships and sufferings experienced by
                    those who preceded us".
         
         
         
            Walter Q. Gresham1
            
            By MARTHA ALICE TYNER
            
            Walter Quintin Gresham was born on March 17, 1832, in a farmhouse near
                    Lanesville, 
                        Harrison
                     County, Indiana. His grandfather, George Gresham, whose ancestry
                    can be traced back for many generations through a well known English family,
                    moved his family from 
                        Kentucky
                     to Indiana Territory. Mary Pennington, who married George Gresham,
                    was a sister of Dennis Pennington.2 William Gresham, the
                    father of Walter, who was born in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1802, was but seven years old when the family crossed the 
                        Ohio
                    . He married Sarah Davis in 1825. While serving as sheriff of 
                        Harrison
                     County, he was killed by an outlaw. On the mother fell the
                    responsibility of rearing the five children. Walter, who was next to the
                    youngest, was not quite two years old when the tragic death of his father
                    occurred.
            The Gresham family were not overcome by misfortune. The boys developed into
                    strong, healthful, young men of character and courage. A schoolhouse stood in
                    the edge of a wooded area on the Gresham farm, and here the children attended
                    school during the winter months of each year. Walter seems to have made the most
                    of his opportunities while attending this country school in the Gresham woods.
                    Later he completed a two-year course in the Corydon Seminary, while serving as
                    an assistant first to the auditor and then to the clerk of 
                        Harrison
                     County. He taught his first term of school before he was sixteen,
                    and another term three years later. The next year, 1851-1852, he was a student
                    at Indiana University. On the advice of Dennis Pennington and Judge William T.
                    Otto, both of whom were much interested in the young teacher, he now turned to
                    the law. His course was taken in the law office of Judge William A. Porter. Much
                    of his success in life he attributed to the training which he received from
                    Judge Porter. The young man began the practice of law in 1854, as 
                  
                     1 This study was first prepared as a
                            master's thesis at Indiana University. As here published it
                            is much abbreviated.
                  
                     2 Dennis Pennington was born about the time that 
                                Washington
                             became President. He was active in the later territorial
                            period of Indiana history, served as a member of the constitutional
                            convention of 1816, and WBB a vigorous leader in the affairs of the new
                            state long after the capital was moved to 
                                Indianapolis
                            . He lived to be a very old man, and through his long career
                            served his commonwealth well.
               
                     a partner of Thomas C. Slaughter. The firm
                    of Slaughter and Gresham was very successful.
            While a law student, young Gresham fell in love with Matilda McGrain. The
                    marriage occurred in 1858. Two children were born of this union, Otto Gresham,
                    who is still living, and Kate, who died several years ago. Matilda McGrain
                    Gresham was a woman of strong character and ability, an excellent companion for
                    her famous husband, whom she outlived by a number of years.3
            
            When the Republican party was born following the passage of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act, Gresham joined the movement and made speeches for Fremont in
                    1856. He was no extremist in regard to the slavery question. A strong supporter
                    of the 
                        Union
                    , he hoped emancipation could be brought about in time without
                    violence and with proper compensation, to slaveholders. He was elected to a seat
                    in the lower house of the Indiana Legislature in 1860. He was deeply concerned
                    about 
                        Kentucky
                     when the secession movement started, and exerted a strong influence
                    on George D. Prentice, editor of the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Journal. The day following a visit to Prentice by Gresham, the
                        Journal took the position that secession by 
                        South Carolina
                     was a hasty action, and that 
                        Kentucky
                     should consider carefully her course.4
            
            Gresham became chairman of the house Military Committee in the regular session of
                    1861. He sponsored bills which were aimed to place Indiana in a state of
                    preparedness, but for these the Legislature was not yet ready. In regard to
                    secession, while he did not champion the Crittenden Compromise, he favored
                    compromise with the border states. In the special session, which convened about
                    a fortnight after the firing on Fort Sumter, military measures were passed that
                    placed great power in the hands of Oliver P. Morton. As chairman of the house
                    Military Committee, Gresham had much to do with the enactment of laws that
                    enabled Morton to become an outstanding "War Governor."
                    Nevertheless a break came between the Governor and Gresham before the 
                  
                     3 Mrs. Gresham wrote a valuable work on the career
                            of her husband, Life of Walter Q. Gresham (2 vols.. 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919). The son, Otto Gresham, prepared a preliminary
                            discussion of eighteen pages which is headed
                            "Introductory." See also the sketch in the Dictionary of American Biography by Herbert F. Wright,
                            and a "Biographical Sketch of Walter Q. Gresham" by
                            James A. Woodburn (Indiana University Bulletin, June 16, 19111, for
                            further information on the youth and early public career of Gresham.
                  
                     4 Matilda Gresham, Life of Walter Q.
                                Gresham, I, 128.
               
                     close of the special session which widened
                    as time went on.5
            
            Following the close of the special session of 1861, Morton refused to grant a
                    commission to Gresham as colonel of a regiment, or even a commission as a lower
                    grade officer. The chairman of the Military Committee then returned to Cory-don,
                    aided in recruiting a regiment and enlisted as a private. Protests reached the
                    Governor, and after a few weeks, he made Gresham Lieutenant Colonel of the
                    thirty-eighth Indiana regiment which was organized at New 
                        Albany
                    .6 This regiment was placed under General
                    William T. Sherman who became a fast friend of Gresham. In December, 1861,
                    Governor Morton asked Lieutenant Colonel Gresham to return to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to become Colonel of the fifty-third Indiana which was then being
                    recruited. The call was accepted, but resulted in a new quarrel with the
                    Governor in regard to the expense of organizing the new regiment. Friends of
                    Gresham came to his aid with funds, the regiment was formed and sent to join
                    General Grant.7 After reaching the field a new controversy
                    with Morton arose because Gresham complained that recruits from 
                        Harrison
                     and adjoining counties which should have been assigned to the
                    fifty-third were sent to other commands. The Governor now demanded the
                    resignation of Colonel Gresham. Receiving no response, Morton took vigorous
                    steps to obtain a removal, but the Colonel's friends evidently
                    prevailed with the War Department and President Lincoln since he remained at his
                        post.8
            
            After the siege and fall of Vicksburg, Generals 
                        Grant
                     and Sherman united in recommending that Colonel Gresham, for
                    "gallant and meritorious services", should be made a brigadier
                    general, and the promotion promptly came.9 For some time
                    General Gresham was in charge of Natchez, 
                        Mississippi
                    .10 Later in the War he was in the 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign. It was 
                  
                     5
                            House Journal (Indiana), Jan. 25, 1861; Horace Bell to
                            Otto Gresham April 27, 1897. Photostatic copy in Indiana State Library.
                  
                     6 Mrs. Gresham, Gresham, I, 149;
                            Bell to Otto Gresham, April 27, 1897.
                  
                     7 Mrs. Gresham, Gresham, I, 169.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., I, 212-214. Mrs. Gresham states that Governor
                            Morton even went to 
                                Washington
                             to urge the dismissal of Gresham. Before going to 
                                Washington
                            , Morton wrote Gresham at 
                                Indianapolis
                             on February 4, 1863: "Sir: Your letter is at hand
                            and confirms the impression before entertained of your purpose and
                            character. If as you say in your letter, you are desirous of serving
                            your country, you can best do 80 by resigning the office [Colonel of
                            Fifty-Third Indiana Volunteers] you hold. A reasonable time will be
                            given you to do so." See Ibid., I, 213.
                  
                     9
                            Official Records of the 
                                    Union
                                 and Confederate Armies in the War of the
                            Rebellion, Series I, LII, 419.
                  
                     10 Woodburn, "Sketch of
                            Gresham."
               
                     when Sherman's army was nearing
                    that city, that Gresham was struck by a bullet that shattered one of his knees.
                    This resulted in a lameness from which he never fully recovered. He was confined
                    to his bed for a year and compelled to walk with crutches for five additional
                    years. Following his enforced retirement from the army, General Gresham changed
                    his residence to New 
                        Albany
                    . While the General was confined to his bed by his injury, Governor
                    Morton came that way campaigning for the governorship in 1864, but he did not
                    call at the Gresham home. This was very soon after Gresham had returned from the
                    front, at a time when many private soldiers, army officers and others were
                    visiting the wounded man. The family did not forget the slight extended by the
                    Governor of Indiana.11
            
            In 1866, Gresham was made a candidate for the national House of Representatives
                    in the second district, but he was defeated by Michael C. Kerr who was returned
                    to his seat by a reduced majority.12 In regard to
                    reconstruction, Gresham supported Lincoln's plan of political
                    reconstruction, and later championed Andrew Johnson against the Radicals. When
                    his party in Congress and in Indiana supported negro suffrage, Gresham was
                    greatly dissatisfied. His disappointment over the action of the Republicans of
                    Indiana was not lessened any by the fact that it was Governor Morton who reaped
                    the benefit of the drift toward the policy of the Radicals. In 1857 the Governor
                    was chosen to a seat in the 
                        United States
                     Senate.13
            
            In 1868 Gresham, as a delegate to the national convention, gave support to
                    General Grant. In that year, he was once more a candidate against Kerr in the
                    second congressional district but was again defeated. After the triumph of
                    Grant, Gresham was urged to become a candidate for the 
                        United States
                     Senate. Even Senator Morton "sent word he would not
                    interpose any opposition to Gresham's candidacy for the
                        Senate".14 Because of the swing of the party
                    toward negro suffrage, Gresham declined to become a candidate.
            President-elect Grant offered Gresham any one of three different federal offices
                    in 
                        New Orleans
                     early in 1859. One 
                  
                     11 Mrs. Gresham, Gresham, I,
                            316.
                  
                     12 In 1864, Kerr's majority was, 2,293,
                            hut in 1866 when he ran against Gresham it was 1,743. Tribune Almanac, 1865, 1867; New 
                                    Albany
                                 Weekly Ledger, Oct. 17, 1866.
                  
                     13 Mrs. Gresham, Gresham, I,
                            331.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., I, 345.
               
                     of these was at first considered favorably,
                    but was after mature reflection declined.15 Relative to the
                    situation, he wrote to his old law partner: 
                        Since I saw you I have rec'd a very kind and flattering letter
                            from Genl. Grant …. I have declined his offer and said to
                            him, that I expect nothing from his administration that I am disgusted
                            with politics and expect to keep clear of all such things in the
                            future…. My mind is now made up. I will accept no office. I
                            care not what it is. I know that you will laugh when I say that I have
                            no political aspirations and that I would not today go to the U. S.
                            Senate, if I could. I am disgusted with the whole thing and I think the
                            Republican party is an infernally corrupt concern. I don't
                            care how soon it is broken up, if the Democracy don't survive
                                it.16
                  
                    
            
            It was not long after the writing of this letter, that President Grant offered
                    Gresham the office of attorney for the federal court of the district of Indiana.
                    This offer was declined because at the time Gresham was calling at the White
                    House in the interest of a friend who desired the office. The friend, General
                    Thomas Brown, was appointed, but before the year was out Gresham was offered the
                    office of district judge for Indiana which he accepted.17
            
            Though Gresham played his part well as a soldier and filled political posts of
                    responsibility with efficiency, he was before anything else a lawyer and a
                    judge. He was no diplomat nor was he a brilliant orator. As a lawyer he was
                    successful from the first. He always enjoyed a trial or lawsuit. On the whole,
                    he was self-possessed and appealed to the reason of his hearers. He studied
                    carefully the decisions of John Marshall and Chancellor Kent, and tried to
                    acquire their exactness of language and clearness of statement.18 On the bench, he was vigorous but humane. "His conception of
                    equity as justice", wrote a friendly critic, "sometimes failed
                    to meet the approval of the Supreme Court."19
            
            Although Judge Gresham was on the bench, he manifested a deep interest in public
                    affairs. In the campaign of 1874, he ardently supported his former rival,
                    Michael C. Kerr, again 
                  
                     15 John A. Rawlins to Walter Q. Gresham, Jan. 27
                            and Feb. 22, 1869: General U. S. 
                                Grant
                             to Gresham, Feb. 11, 1869. Photostatic copies of these
                            three letters and of that cited in the succeeding footnote are in the
                            Indiana State Library.
                  
                     16 Gresham to Thomas E. Slaughter, Feb. 26, 1869.
                  
                     17
                            
                                Montgomery
                             Schuyler, "Walter Quinton Gresham," in
                                American Secretaries of State and Their Diplomacy,
                            ed. Samuel Flags Benis (
                                New York
                            , 1928), VIII, 237-238.
                  
                     18 Mrs. Gresham, Gresham, I, 30.
                  
                     19 Walter Nelles, A Strike and its
                                Legal Consequences. Pamphlet, a reprint from Yale
                                Law Journal, Feb., 1931.
               
                     the Democratic candidate for Congress.
                    Though the tariff was a minor issue, the great controversy was over hard or soft
                    money. Kerr, like Gresham, stood for sound money as opposed to paper money. Kerr
                    was elected.
            Following the advice of Gresham, President Grant appointed Benjamin H. Bristow,
                    Solictor-General. The President was so well pleased that in 1874, Bristow was
                    made Secretary of the Treasury. The Treasury Department was in bad condition.
                    Bristow instituted some drastic reforms in the department. However, he rendered
                    the greatest service to the country when he broke up the notorious Whisky Ring.
                    This was a powerful and corrupt organization of distillers of the Middle West.
                    For several years the Ring had defrauded the federal government of revenue by
                    bribing the revenue officers, and, in some instances, other government officials
                    were implicated in the conspiracy.
            In the beginning of Bristow's war on corruption, he had the hearty
                    support of President Grant. However, when the President's private
                    secretary, Orville Babcock, was accused of being connected with the Ring, the
                    President, who believed him innocent, grew cold toward Bristow. Judge Gresham
                    was a friend to both Grant and Bristow and was greatly interested in the
                    investigation. He made a trip to 
                        Washington
                     in the hope that he could convince the President of
                    Bristow's honesty and sincerity of purpose. Nevertheless, his mission
                    failed. Grant came to the conclusion, largely through the influence of some of
                    his friends, that Bristow was using his office as a stepping stone to the
                    presidency, and the fighting Secretary was virtually forced from the Cabinet.
            Senator Oliver P. Morton was a prominent candidate for the nomination for the
                    presidency in 1876. In February, Morton and his friends let Gresham know that he
                    would be approved if he would make the race for governor of Indiana. Gresham
                    turned down this opportunity, since it would call for him to support Morton in
                    the National Republican Convention.20 There was a
                    counter-current organized by such reformers as Carl Schurz, Judge Gresham, John
                    M. Harlan, Bristow's former law partner, and others. They worked for
                    the nomination of Benjamin H. Bristow for president. The movement failed, but it
                    prevented the nomination of Morton 
                  
                     20 Mrs. Gresham, Gresham, II,
                            456.
               
                     or Blaine. Rutherford B. Hayes of 
                        Ohio
                    , a compromise candidate, was nominated.
            During the seventies, one of the most complicated problems, and one which was of
                    very great importance, was the railroad question. After the panic of 1873, most
                    of the railroads in the Middle West passed into the hands of receivers, who were
                    selected, in the seventh 
                        United States
                     circuit, by Judge Thomas Drummond, an honest, straight-forward man
                    "whose public and private character illustrated all the old-fashioned
                        virtues."21
            
            During the depression ushered in by the panic of 1873, the wage scale of railroad
                    employees was several times reduced. Further reductions were to go into effect
                    on August 1 of the year 1877. On many of the roads the payrolls were withheld to
                    meet interest on the mortgages carried by the roads. The decision of Judge
                    Drummond was that railroads are public concerns and that "arrears for
                    wages and supplies that kept the railroad in operation must first he
                    liquidated," by the appointed receivers.22
            
            During June and the early part of July, 1877, there were many conferences between
                    the employers and employees. Most of the men accepted the reductions.
                    Nevertheless, by the middle of July, there was a strike on the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     road at Martinsburg, West 
                        Virginia
                    , and the strike spread to the entire system. Fear was expressed
                    that it would soon reach 
                        Indianapolis
                    . News came that 
                        Pittsburgh
                     was in the hands of a mob. The strike spread all around 
                        Indianapolis
                     and finally struck that city. The strikers took possession of the 
                        Union
                     Station and tied up freight and passenger trains that attempted to
                    leave. The Governor and Mayor took no action to preserve order. Judge Gresham
                    held a mass meeting in the federal court room at which he presided. Most of
                    those present had served in the Civil War. Gresham called attention to the fact,
                    "that the community was in possession of the mob, that the Governor,
                    the Mayor and the Sheriff, whose duty it was to act, were supine; life and
                    property were in danger; that society was disintegrating, if it had not
                    dissolved." The best policy to pursue was to organize a Committee of
                    Public Safety with enough volunteers to control the 
                  
                     21 Nelles, A Strike and Its Legal
                                Consequences, 520.
                  
                     22 Mrs. Gresham, Gresham, I,
                            372.
               
                     situation. Gresham promised that he would
                    take "no action as Federal Judge in an administrative
                    capacity," without the Committee's approval.23 Benjamin Harrison, although against hasty action and feeling that
                    the strikers had some causes for complaint, took command of one of the volunteer
                    companies.
            Gresham offered to act under the Executive of the state, but both Governor and
                    Mayor at first refused his services. Inasmuch as the city officials made no
                    attempt to control the situation, Gresham ordered General Benjamin Spooner to
                    notify the mob "that they were in contempt of court." Spooner
                    went to the 
                        Union
                     Station alone and delivered the Judge's message. The mob
                    then permitted the trains that were under orders from receivers to leave the
                    station. Gresham called for federal troops which he placed under command of the
                    federal Marshall. Governor James D. Williams finally took the volunteer
                    companies into the service of the state and, with the aid of the federal troops,
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     strike was ended.
            In the conflict, the position of the 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana federal judges made them powerful as citizens. They
                    were dealing with a revolutionary situation, and they performed their duties not
                    only as officials but as citizens. During the strike, Judge Gresham did not
                    proceed rashly. He inquired of Judge Thomas Drummond by telegram if he had
                    authority to order the Marshal to make arrests.
            It was Judge Drummond who presided at the trials of the strike leaders in Indiana
                    as well as in 
                        Illinois
                    . Judge Gresham did not hear the cases before the district court in
                    Indiana because he had taken such an active part as a citizen in the effort to
                    prevent violence while the strike was going on.
            In 1883 Gresham resigned his judgeship to become Postmaster-General in President
                    Arthur's Cabinet. During his almost twelve years of service as a
                    federal district judge, he had proved to be fearless and upright. He commanded
                    the respect and honor of the bar. The position that became vacant by the
                    resignation of Judge Drummond from the seventh 
                        United States
                     circuit, which included Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , was tendered to Judge Gresham in 1884. He immediately resigned as
                    Secretary of the Treasury to which office he had but recently been transferred,
                    and began his work on the bench in 
                        Chicago
                     on November 10, 1884.
            
               
                  23 Nelles, 522.
            
            
            Of the many actions which came before Gresham during his years of service on the
                    circuit court bench, the 
                        Wabash
                     Railway contest brought him the greatest prominence. In May, 1884,
                    Judge David J. Brewer, of the eighth 
                        United States
                     circuit at 
                        St. Louis
                     appointed John Humphreys and Thomas E. Tutt receivers for the 
                        Wabash
                     Railroad. Up to the time of their appointment, they were
                    stockholders and directors of the 
                        Wabash
                     System. The circuit court at 
                        Chicago
                     concurred in the appointments, but reserved "to itself
                    power to make such further orders in the premises as may seem
                        necessary."24
            
            The famous case arose on the application of stockholders of the 
                        Chicago
                     division of the 
                        Wabash
                     to foreclose their mortgages and remove the present receivers,
                    mainly on the ground that the existing receivership had resulted from secret
                    agreements on the part of the old management of the road. Judge Gresham granted
                    the petitioners leave to file their application in the seventh circuit court,
                    "since the bulk of the property claimed by them was chiefly in the
                    field of his jurisdiction." The attorneys for the receivers claimed and
                    insisted that when the circuit court at 
                        St. Louis
                     appointed the receivers it acquired "jurisdiction over the 
                        Wabash
                     property and system throughout its length and breadth and that all
                    persons, including creditors, whose bonds were secured by senior sectional
                    mortgages on property," whether in the state of 
                        Missouri
                     or not, must go to the circuit court at 
                        St. Louis
                     to enforce their claims, and that no other court could remove the
                        receivers.25
            
            Receiver Humphreys had made a carrying contract with the Ellsworth Coal Company,
                    whose place of business was adjacent to the 
                        Wabash
                     Railroad, for the purchase of coal. The stock of the Coal Company
                    was owned by Solon Humphreys, Jay Gould, Russell Sage, and others, all directors
                    of the 
                        Wabash
                     Railroad. The original capital of the Coal Company which was
                    $24,000, was raised to $68,000. Moreover, the 
                        Wabash
                     Railroad paid the Coal Company $250,000 a year for the
                    coal used by the road. The Railway Company also paid back to the Coal Company
                    rebates to the amount of $80,711 more even than the expanded capital
                    stock of the Coal Company. This was a striking example of "the left
                    hand paying 
                  
                     24 Atkins v. 
                                Wabash
                             Railroad, 29 Fed., 161 (C.C.N.D. Ill., 1886).
                  
                     25
                            Public Opinion, Dee. 18, 1886. Clipped from Bradstreets.
                  
               
                     to the right," a method by which
                    the directors of the 
                        Wabash
                     enriched themselves at the expense of the stockholders of the road
                    which they represented. Furthermore, interest was paid on bonds held by those in
                    the "ring", but none to those who were fighting that corrupt
                    organization. Tutt, one of the receivers, testified that when he heard of the
                    serious charges in connection with the Coal Company, he instituted an
                    investigation. However, he revealed nothing of importance to the court.
            The object in appointing receivers was to protect the property of the Wabash
                    R.R., but Judge Gresham saw clearly that it was "unusual and
                    novel" to appoint any man who was a director or a stockholder, since
                    the road had been managed unsuccessfully. The fighting spirit of an honest,
                    clear-minded man was aroused, and Gresham dared to defy the power of wealth. He
                    denied that the Federal circuit judge at 
                        St. Louis
                     had jurisdiction over property in 
                        Illinois
                    , and held that since interest on mortgages had not been paid,
                    foreclosure could not be prevented. He also declared that the non-assenting
                    stockholders of the 
                        Wabash
                     were justified in asking the removal of Humphreys and Tutt as
                    receivers, on the ground that they were unfit to act.26
            
            Judge Gresham now appointed Judge Thomas M. Cooley as receiver in the place of
                    Humphreys and Tutt who were members of the grafting "ring."
                    This action restored to the stockholders their rights over the property in which
                    they had invested their money. Jay Gould and those who served him became enemies
                    of Judge Gresham, but he was defended by many newspapers whose praise of his
                    stand found a wide response among the people. Gould at once insinuated that
                    Gresham was making a bid for the presidency. The belief that Gould and other
                    speculators and promoters of his kind would fight the Judge, caused many people
                    to hope that he might be drafted.27
            
            In 1888 the Burlington Railroad strike began in 
                        Chicago
                    . The circuit court of the 
                        United States
                     became implicated in it, since the 
                        Wabash
                     Railroad east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     River was operated by a receiver appointed by Judge Gresham. After
                    the strike was declared, the 
                        Wabash
                     Road accepted cars from 
                  
                     26 Atkins v. 
                                Wabash
                             Railroad.
                  
                     27
                            Public Opinion, Dec. 18, 1886. See for editorial
                            opinions clipped from the following: 
                                Pittsburgh
                            
                            Dispatch, 
                                Toledo
                            
                            Bee, 
                                Toledo
                            
                            Blade, 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Globe-Democrat, 
                                New York
                            
                            Herald.
                  
               
                     the Burlington System while other roads
                    remained neutral. A petition was filed in the circuit court which resulted in
                    the decision of Judge Gresham "that common carriers were bound to
                    interchange traffic although the employees of one were on a strike.28
            
            While Judge Gresham was faithful to his duties on the bench, he kept constantly
                    in touch with political leaders, and had pronounced views on political issues.
                    Although he was not a strong partizan, yet he manifested a deep interest in the
                    success of his party, In a letter to a confidential friend he wrote the
                    following after the Indiana state election and just prior to the national
                    election of 1876: 
                        The truth is the Republican party in Indiana is in bad hands….
                            I confess to you that I am fearful that Tilden will gain. His forces in 
                                New York
                             are well organized and discliplined. There is no denying
                            the fact that he has uncommon capacity as a leader. We are not in good
                            shape—too many Republicans are with us as a choice of evils
                            and the Germans have gone to the Democracy…. I
                            don't believe Schurz can control the German vote in 
                                New York
                            .29 I may be too much inclined to take a
                            gloomy view of our situation. I hope I am. I am writing to you just as I
                            feel. I shall not be surprised if Tilden is elected. Thousands of
                            Republicans believe their party is corrupt, and believing that, they do
                            not stop to reflect what will be the consequences of turning the
                            government over to the Democracy.30
                  
                    
            
            The presidential election of 1876 was followed by a long dispute. Both Democrats
                    and Republicans claimed the victory. Unquestionably each party was guilty of
                    fraud. The excitement was intense, with threats of war on both sides. As the
                    upper house of Congress was Republican, a group of Radicals, one of whom was
                    Morton of Indiana, determined to decide the election in favor of the Republican
                    standard bearer, Rutherford B. Hayes. In the hope of a fair solution, Senator
                    George F. Edmunds proposed to have the controversy decided by an electoral
                    commission composed of five members of the Senate, five members of the House of
                    Representatives, and five justices of the Supreme Court. Gresham saw an
                    opportunity to weaken Morton and the Radicals. He acted quickly. In the midst of
                    a heated discussion, Senator Edmunds produced a 
                  
                     28 Mrs. Gresham, Gresham, I,
                            416.
                  
                     29 Carl Schurz was the foremost Liberal Republican
                            in 1872. After the nomination of Hayes, Schurz called on him and soon
                            announced that he would support the Republican ticket, but many Liberal
                            Republicans supported Tilden.
                  
                     30 Gresham to Thomas Slaughter, Oct. 19, 1876.
                            Photostatic copy in Indiana State Library.
               
                     telegram from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , signed by several leading Republicans, in favor of his plan. The
                    Edmunds bill was passed. Commenting on the situation in a letter to Judge
                    Slaughter, Gresham said: 
                        I guess you accuse me of being at the bottom of getting up that telegram
                            that went from here to Senator Edmunds. Well I was, and when I see you I
                            will tell you some funny things concerning the affair. It was a
                            staggering blow to Morton, and strong as he is, he felt it. How I do
                            wish I was in the Senate but I let my opportunity pass and I must not
                            think of such things now.31
                  
                    
            
            The Joint High Electoral Commission turned out to be a strictly partizan body
                    voting eight to seven on every count. Nevertheless Hayes came in with a new
                    policy in regard to reconstruction. Gresham was so favorable to the withdrawal
                    of federal troops from the South that the President could not move fast enough
                    to satisfy the Judge. The new Administration was little over a month old when he
                    was writing of Hayes that "indecision and hesitation" would be
                    fatal to him. "Unless the Republican party abandons the policy of
                    martial state government in the South," he declared, "it
                    can't maintain its ascendency in the North…."32 The President went on to carry out the withdrawal of
                    troops, and Gresham was satisfied, but hostile to any interference with the
                    policy on the part of the Radicals. He saw that the power of the latter element
                    was waning, and believed that the people of the North would soon see
                    "the wisdom of letting the Southern States settle their domestic
                    affairs" just as was done in the North.33
            
            In regard to Indiana politics, the Judge wrote at this time: 
                        There has been quite a revolt here against Morton, growing in a great
                            measure out of the contest over the Pension Agency. I understand that
                            the President said last week that he would not support Terrell. Morton
                            takes his defeat hard, and says there would have been no trouble about
                            the office "if Gresham had kept his hands to
                            himself."… Morton seems to think that I induced
                            Gen'l Knefler to make the fight. I can tell you many funny
                            things when I see you. I plead guilty to having had something to do in
                            developing opposition to Morton and Terrell here. Ben Harrison has no
                            pluck at all. Jno. Hanna, and many others, openly denounce Morton on the
                                streets.34
                  
                    
            
            There was a bitter contest between General William H. H. Terrell and General Fred
                    Knefler over the Pension Agency in 
                  
                     31 Gresham to Slaughter, Feb. 1, 1877.
                  
                     32 Gresham to Slaughter, April 13, 1877.
                  
                     33 Gresham to Slaughter, May 20, 1877.
                  
                            34
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                    
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    . Terrell, the incumbent, had been appointed Pension Agent by
                    President Grant in 1873 and served until 1877. He was military secretary of the
                    Executive Department in Indiana during the Civil War and was made
                    brigadier-general in 1865, which was an extraordinary honor for him. Terrell was
                    a close friend of Governor Morton, who in thanking him for his excellent service
                    said: "I wish to assure you, that should you ever ask me to do anything
                    for you, I will do it."35 The other party in the
                    conflict was General Knefler who served three years in the Civil War. At the
                    close of the War, he formed a law partnership with Zohn Hanna. Knefler was
                    supported in the fight by Walter Q. Gresham, while Terrell was supported by
                    Senator Morton. Knefler's side won, and he was appointed Pension
                    Agent by President Hayes, in 1877.
            In 1880 Judge Gresham again refused to be a candidate for governor. However,
                    since the Republicans were in control of the Indiana State Legislature, he did
                    become a candidate for the senatorial nomination, but "the strength of
                    Harrison caused him finally to withdraw from the fight."36
            
            Gresham now decided to retire from the bench and form a partnership with Joseph
                    E. McDonald. In April, 1883, the Postmaster-General, Timothy Otis Howe, died.
                    President Arthur, to block an incipient presidential boom, it is claimed, and
                    with a view to an Arthur-Gresham ticket in 1884, offered Gresham the vacant post
                    by wire. Gresham was holding his last term of court at 
                        Evansville
                    , and it was there that he received the news of his selection. The
                    office came entirely unsolicited and without a knowledge on his part that he was
                    being considered. He immediately accepted.
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News promptly prophesied that Gresham's political
                    career was just beginning: 
                        He has those attributes belonging to a positive character, which do not
                            perhaps attract or create a general enthusiasm…. His
                            positiveness has perhaps, at times, tended to cause him to carry things
                            with a high hand, but all in all, his judicial career has been one of
                            honor to himself and credit to the bench. His general ability is
                            conceded, and he has a fine executive faculty, which will stand him in a
                            good stead in his new position. He is decidedly a man of action and the
                            country will not expect too much in looking to him for an energetic and
                            sufficient 
                        
                           35
                                    Memorial Record of Distinguished Men of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         and Indiana, edited by Jacob Piatt Dunn
                                    and others (
                                        Chicago
                                    , 1912). p. 238.
                        
                                    36
                                    Dictionary of American Biography.
                                
                     
                             management of his
                            department…. His place on the bench has made his political
                            predilections, more matters of individual opinion, than party influence,
                            and so it may be said he comes to his position in harmony with the
                            general interests and feelings of his party in this state, and his
                            appointment is, therefore, to be reckoned as a help to his party.37
                  
                    
            
            The following day the News contained a special telegram from
                    ex-President Grant which was given to the public: 
                        I first made General Gresham's acquaintance in the early part
                            of the War, when I first started out from Cairo. He served under me and
                            I don't know a man who is better qualified to perform the
                            duties of the office than he. His appointment will be received by the
                            Republican party, and the people generally, with satisfaction I am sure.
                            I heartily commend the wisdom of the appointment, and consider it one of
                            the very best that could be made.38
                  
                    
            
            The 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Commercial Gazette gave the following reasons for
                    Gresham's appointment: 
                        In considering the claims of Indiana it was remembered that it had been
                            the judgment of the Republican leaders, since the campaign of 1880, that
                            Indiana should have a cabinet position. Wrangling among the Indiana
                            politicians had prevented the appointment of Judge Gresham, although
                            General Garfield, who personally knew him, and greatly respected him,
                            had fully determined to select him. The names most prominently
                            considered from Indiana were those of Governor Porter and Judge Gresham.
                            Governor Porter was not personally known to the President; Judge Gresham
                            was personally and favorably known to him. Moreover, Governor Porter was
                            not a 
                                Union
                             soldier, and Judge Gresham was a very brilliant 
                                Union
                             soldier and shows the effects of his wounds to-day.
                            Moreover, the fact that General Garfield had selected Judge Gresham had
                            a very strong influence upon President Arthur, and possibly turned the
                            scale in Gresham's favor.39
                  
                    
            
            It may be argued that Gresham's position as judge was more responsible
                    and dignified than a cabinet portfolio, yet, if he had ambitions for the
                    senatorship or the presidency, a cabinet position would bring him before the
                    public and furnish an excellent start in the political field. It was believed by
                    some, however, that Gresham's ambition was to be a 
                        United States
                     circuit judge. The rumor had been afloat for some time that Judge
                    Drummond, of the seventh 
                        United States
                     circuit at 
                        Chicago
                    , intended to retire from the bench. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel claimed that if Gresham accepted the appointment to
                    the Cabinet, it would enhance his chances for 
                  
                     37
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 5, 1883.
                  
                     38Ibid., April 6, 1883.
                  
                     39
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial Gazette, clipped in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 5, 1883.
               
                     the judgeship, and added: "He will
                    make one of the most efficient officials connected with President
                    Arthur's Administration. He enjoys an exalted reputation for probity,
                    and as a judge he has won, so far as we know, as large a share of public esteem
                    as has fallen to the lot of any man who has worn the ermine of the federal
                    judiciary." The Sentinel further declared that
                    "the appointment will give general satisfaction in this state, where
                    Judge Gresham is honored and respected by every one and stands at the very head
                    of the judiciary."40
            
            
               Harper's Weekly endorsed Gresham's
                    appointment: 
                        The appointment of General Gresham has been received with universal
                            favor, not because he is very generally known to the country but because
                            all that is said of him is high praise, both of his military and
                            judicial career, and because of the unsatisfactory names that had been
                            mentioned in connection with the office. As the only objection made to
                            the appointment is that he is not generally known, it is to be
                            remembered that the trouble with most of the persons named for the
                            office was that they were too well known. General or Judge Gresham is
                            from Indiana and he is a positive but independent Republican, personally
                            friendly to Grant, but a supporter of Mr. Bristow in 1876. He is called
                            to a post requiring extraordinary energy and administrative faculty, and
                            his conduct will be watched with hope and confidence.41
                  
                    
            
            Judge Gresham adjourned his court at 
                        Evansville
                     and returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Several leading Republicans met him at the station on his arrival,
                    and he received congratulations from all parts of the country. He prepared to go
                    to 
                        Washington
                     immediately. The officials of the Panhandle Railroad offered
                    Gresham a special car to carry him to 
                        Washington
                    , which he "respectfully declined." Instead, in
                    the "style of true Republican simplicity… he boarded the
                    train, as an ordinary passenger, at full rates." A number of personal
                    friends, including the G. A. R. of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , were at the 
                        Union
                     Station to bid him "a good bye and God bless
                        you."42
            
            It was characteristic of the new Postmaster-General, that he requested that there
                    be no demonstration on his arrival at 
                        Washington
                    . He was quietly driven to the home of Colonel John W. Foster, who
                    was practicing law in 
                        Washington
                    , and who had reoently been appointed minister to 
                        Spain
                    . A few days later, The Indiana Republican Club of 
                        Washington
                     gave 
                  
                     40
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, April 5, 1883.
                  
                     41
                            Harper's Weekly, April 14, 1883.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 10, 1883.
               
                     an informal reception in honor of Judge
                    Gresham. Assistant Secretary of the Treasury John C. New said that
                    Gresham's appointment came through the recommendations of John W.
                    Foster and Senator David Davis of 
                        Illinois
                    . New further said that while he and Gresham had not been on good
                    terms for some time, he was proud of the selection for the honor of Indiana, as
                    Gresham was a man eminently fitted for any office, no matter how exalted it
                    might be. On the whole, Gresham's appointment was received with favor
                    both by the public and the press. The prominence which he now enjoyed seemed to
                    many to place him in the front row for the presidency.43
            
            There was a good deal of speculation as to how well Assistant Postmaster-General
                    Frank Hatton and Walter &. Gresham would agree. The former was a fierce
                    partisan. His idea of the Department was to use it as an adjunct to the party
                    machine. Gresham belonged to a different school, whose judicial mind preserved
                    him from narrow partisanship. His opinion was not that the Post Office
                    Department was a piece of political machinery, but that it should be run for the
                    best interests of the postal service.44
            
            The new Postmaster-General at once showed the spirit of the reformer. Through his
                    efforts legislation was secured to reduce letter postage from three cents to two
                    cents, and the weight of first-class mail was increased from one-half to one
                    ounce. The foreign postal service was improved; fast mails were
                    reëstablished and letter postage to 
                        Canada
                     was lowered. His most notable activity, however, was the war he
                    waged against the 
                        Louisiana
                     Lottery Company, which was denied the use of the mails according to
                    law. The controversy, started by Gresham, was marked by rigid enforcement of
                    existing laws and the passing of more stringent laws against the use of the
                    mails for fraud. According to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, the Lottery Company kept several high-priced men in 
                        Washington
                     to guard their interest and any previous attempts to interfere with
                    their usurped mail privileges had fallen flat. The Journal
                    added in regard to the new situation: 
                        The men who compose the Lottery crowd are afraid as death of the new
                            Postmaster-General, and quake in their boots for fear he may, by an
                            official ruling kick their fat into the fire. The prompt manner in 
                        
                           43
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Journal, April 12, 1883.
                        
                           44
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Sentinel, April 12, 1883.
                     
                             which he takes up questions and
                            goes at once to the bottom of them is something new in departmental
                            administration, and fills the parties who make a living expediting or
                            delaying matters of business by arguments, demurrers and other means
                            with a fear that their occupation will soon be gone.45
                  
                    
            
            After Gresham became Postmaster-General, his name appeared frequently as a
                    possible candidate for the governorship of Indiana. He was likewise often
                    mentioned for the presidency, and frequently as a strong man for the
                    vice-presidency. In his boom for governor, it was reported that he had written
                    to a friend in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     stating his intention to return to his native state and the law
                    practice as soon as he was through with the Cabinet, He then might take some
                    part in politics. Notwithstanding this report, Gresham sent a telegram in which
                    he stated positively that he was not a candidate for Governor.46
            
            A letter from New 
                        Albany
                    , that was published in the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune claimed that southern Indiana was strongly backing
                    Gresham for the presidency. The people of New 
                        Albany
                     had known him from his youth. Although a "cabinet officer
                    they called him Walt and he was regarded as one of the boys."
                    Gresham's friends supported President Arthur. An Arthur-Gresham
                    ticket would satisfy them. The writer of the letter quoted Morris McDonald, one
                    of the delegates to the 
                        Chicago
                     Convention, as saying that Harrison was an aristocrat, cold, and
                    not for the common man. He added: "Its the same way at 
                        Washington
                    . When the boys go on there and want anything, they have to go to
                    Dan Voorhees. Gresham is genial to everybody, no matter whether he is a
                    hod-carrier or a 
                        United States
                     Senator."47
            
            In the National Convention, which met at 
                        Chicago
                     on June 1, 1884, it was openly declared that the Gresham movement
                    had the support of Indiana, 
                  Michigan, Wisconsin
               , and 
                        Minnesota
                    , and probably would acquire the total strength counted for Senator
                    Edmunds on the early ballots. While the Indiana delegation would present
                    Harrison's name, the Hoosier delegates would rally to the support of
                    Gresham at any time.48
            
            Since Indiana had two favorite sons, the Greshamites argued that it would not be
                    fair to present the name of Harrison, 
                  
                     45
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 18, 1883.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., June 18, 1884.
                  
                     47
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, clipped in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, May 28, 1884.
                  
                     48
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, June, 1884.
               
                     since Gresham refused to have his name
                    proposed for the first place as long as Arthur was in the field. The
                    Postmaster-General was a warm friend of President Arthur, who in turn favored
                    his candidacy for second place. Sherman and Gresham or Edmunds and Gresham were
                    not infrequently mentioned as possible combinations. The outcome of the contest
                    was that Blaine's friends succeeded in nominating him on the fourth
                    ballot. John A. Logan of 
                        Illinois
                     was given second place on the ticket.
            On the death of Charles J. Folger, Secretary of the Treasury, the President
                    offered the position to the Postmaster-General. Judge Gresham hesitated to
                    accept since he desired to complete the investigations and reforms which he had
                    be gun in the Post-Office Department. However, he agreed to the transfer on
                    September 23, 1884, as a matter of accommodation to his chief. President Arthur
                    was reluctant to place new timber in his Cabinet. He much preferred to keep it
                    as it was, and there was no man among the President's counselors in
                    whom he reposed greater confidence than in Judge Gresham.49
            
            Again Gresham's selection seemed to meet the general approval of the
                    public and the press. An editorial in the Nation read: 
                        The appointment of General Gresham, as Secretary of the Treasury, in
                            place of Judge Folger, deceased, will be recognized, everywhere, as a
                            fitting and appropriate disposition of that important
                            office…. General Gresham has the full confidence of the
                            country, earned by an industrious and unsullied career, in military,
                            civil and judicial life. No appointment could have been freer from
                            objection, and hardly any could have been made giving better promise of
                            usefulness to the public service.50
                  
                    
            
            During the short time that Judge Gresham was head of the Treasury Department, he
                    made several investigations and started some reforms. One of his last acts while
                    a member of the Cabinet was the making of a speech to the business men in Wall
                    Street prior to the presidential election. He discussed the financial
                    legislation from 1860 up to that time. Although Blaine, the presidential
                    candidate, was for protection, nevertheless Gresham maintained that there should
                    be 
                  
                     49
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Sept. 14, 1884.
                  
                     50
                            The Nation. Oct. 2, 1884.
               
                     a revision of the tariff laws and a
                    reduction of the surplus revenue.
            For several months, as already mentioned, it had been known that Judge Drummond
                    of the seventh 
                        United States
                     circuit intended to resign. The general supposition was that Judge
                    Gresham would be appointed to fill the vancancy. His duties as a Cabinet officer
                    would soon end, but the judgeship would be for life. On November 2 he accepted
                    the appointment and assumed the duties of the bench a few days later. His career
                    as circuit judge has already received notice.
            The presidential campaign of 1888 opened with many possible candidates for
                    nomination in the field. The Convention, which assembled on June 17, was held in 
                        Chicago
                    . The name of James G. Blaine, the defeated candidate of 1884, was
                    brought forth by his ardent admirers. The 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune, the leading Republican newspaper in the West, was
                    again urging Blaine's nomination. But Joseph Medill, editor of the
                        Tribune, strongly approved Cleveland's annual
                    message, in which the President advised that the surplus in the Treasury should
                    be decreased by reducing the duties on imports. He argued that the government
                    was collecting more revenue than was needed. He was not for free trade but for a
                    revision of the tariff in the interests of both laborers and manufacturers. He
                    condemned combinations and trusts which prevented competition. Blaine, who was
                    in 
                        London
                     at the time, denounced 
                        Cleveland
                     as a free trader, and proposed a higher tariff than the 
                        United States
                     had ever had. His supporters were very indignant at Medill, and
                    pronounced him a free trader of the Grover 
                        Cleveland
                     type. The 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune had been favorably disposed toward Judge Gresham
                    before the appearance of President Cleveland's message, and when the
                    breach came with the Blaine leaders, the paper became a strong advocate of the
                    Judge's candidacy, while the powerful 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Inter-Ocean also fell into line.
            In February, the chairman of the Republican National Convention made public a
                    letter from Blaine, who was in Florence, 
                        Italy
                    , in which he stated that he was not a candidate for the presidency.
                    However, a number of his warm friends continued to urge his nomination, but the
                    highest number of votes received by him was forty-eight on the fifth ballot.
                    Senator John Sherman reached the high tide of his success in the Convention when
                    he received two hundred forty-nine votes  on
                    the second ballot. Blaine's letter of withdrawal had increased the
                    number of candidates. Fourteen different party leaders received votes on the
                    first ballot. The real fight was between the Greshamites and the Harrisonites.
            The powerful Indiana Republican machine was strongly behind Harrison in the
                    Convention, while Gresham was not supported by any active organization. Since
                    the time when Gresham accepted the appointment in Arthur's cabinet,
                    he had been urged by his friends, both publicly and privately, to enter the race
                    for the presidency. His fearless decision in the famous 
                        Wabash
                     Railway Case had increased his popularity with the laboring class.
            The Nation could not understand how Gresham could be a real
                    tariff reformer and receive the support of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune. If the choice for the president was between 
                        Cleveland
                     "and a half-hearted milk and water revenue reform
                    Republican," the Democratic candidate would be elected. Furthermore a
                    protective tariff regardless of revenue was the only doctrine that would obtain
                    the support of the steel interests. Gresham seemed to be ruled out by the
                    protected industries.51
            
            The 
                        Boston
                    
                    Globe conceded that Gresham had many good qualities, but
                    feared that he was "not the kind of a man to rally a united
                    party." He "was a Stalwart of the Stalwarts—a 
                        Grant
                    , Conkling and Arthur man,"52 which
                    would not please the Blaine-Garfield Republicans.
            In April Gresham's 
                        Chicago
                     friends held a meeting attended by a large number of representative
                    Republicans. They felt that his qualifications and merits were so well known
                    that it was not necessary to present them to the public. Several paid high
                    compliments to the popularity of the Judge and commented upon the fact, that
                    "as an active member of the federal judiciary, he could take no public
                    cognizance of anything that might be done in his behalf." It was
                    understood that he was adverse to any formal steps to further his nomination.
                    However, "a resolution was submitted pledging the use of all honorable
                    means to promote the nomination of Judge Gresham and expressing the opinion that
                    the sentiment in his behalf was so general and spontaneous, that it was
                    unnecessary to perfect a distinct organization to further his
                        interests."53
            
            
               
                  51
                        Ibid., March 22, 1888.
               
                  52
                        
                            Boston
                        
                        Globe, clipped in Public Opinion, April
                        14, 1888.
               
                  53
                        
                            Pittsburgh
                        
                        Commercial-Gazette, clipped in ibid.
               
            
            
            Moreover, since Judge Gresham had been on the circuit bench in 
                        Chicago
                     for over three years, 
                        Illinois
                     championed his cause as an adopted son. The 
                        Illinois
                     delegation was pledged to him and on the first three ballots he
                    received her forty-four votes. Even on the eighth ballot, Gresham had lost only
                    four of the 
                        Illinois
                     delegates.
            Senator Harrison's cause was greatly enhanced from the fact that he
                    had captured a delegate from Gresham's own Indiana county. However,
                    intimated an independent newspaper, that might be due "to the wire
                    pulling and delegate-electing class of Indiana Republicans," adding
                    that quite a difference exists between "popularity with party bosses
                    and workers" and popularity with the mass of voters.54 Nevertheless, the Republican political machine in Indiana, by skillful
                    management obtained pledges from the delegates of eleven of the thirteen
                    districts. In two districts the delegates were not pledged. However, analysis of
                    the eight ballots cast at the 
                        Chicago
                     Convention shows that the Indiana delegation at no time gave
                    Gresham more than two votes, and on the eighth ballot the total of thirty votes
                    went to Harrison.
            The Brooklyn Times proclaimed that Harrison, by securing the
                    Indiana delegation, put Gresham out of the race more effectively than if he had
                    declined to enter.55 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel contended that Gresham's many Republican
                    friends in Indiana would not submit to the "high-handed methods
                    employed… in packing the delegation to 
                        Chicago
                    , for Harrison."56 The Nation claimed that, while Gresham represented the best elements of
                    the Republican party, that the "aggressiveness of his 
                        Illinois
                     supporters" would "excite the hostility of the
                    Blaine faction." Moreover, "he was one of the suspects of the
                    Arthur administration."57 The 
                        Washington
                    
                    Gazette professed to see only campaign propaganda in the
                    support which Democratic editors were giving to Gresham. Such support would
                    increase the dissensions within the party and in the end weaken 
                        Harrison
                    , Inasmuch as Republicans would choose their own nominee, Democrats
                    should remember that any man wanted by them, Republicans would not want. 
                        Harrison
                     was a true Republican.58
            
            
               
                  54
                        
                            Philadelphia
                        
                        Ledger, clipped in ibid.
               
               
                  55 Brooklyn Times, clipped in ibid.
               
               
                  56
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, clipped in ibid., April 28,
                        1888.
               
                  57
                        The Nation. May 10, 1888.
               
                  58
                        
                            Washington
                        
                        Gazette, clipped in 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, June 11, 1888.
            
            
            The 
                        New Orleans
                    
                    States contained a "handsome testimonial,"
                    for Gresham "from Senator Voorhees, who declared that
                    ‘neither malice nor envy can breathe a word against the
                    judge's character. His whole life,’ he adds,
                    ‘has been cleanly and honest.’ From one who has known him
                    from his school days, and a political opponent to boot, such a testimonial means
                    something." The 
                        Louisiana
                     editor added: "Many Democrats said that the chief obstacle
                    to the nomination of Gresham was Jay Gould, and that the Republican party would
                    not dare nominate a man to whom Jay Gould was opposed."59
            
            Some weeks before the meeting of Gresham's friends in 
                        Chicago
                    , a conference of prominent Republicans "Favorable to
                    Gresham's candidacy" was held in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This meeting came in February. Two days later an editorial in the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune, addressed to Indiana politicians, asked if they were
                    "not making a mistake in pushing him (Harrison) instead of Judge
                    Gresham, a far stronger and more popular man ?" They were told that
                    "on every point where Harrison was weak Gresham was
                        strong."60
            
            It was the judgment of General Lew Wallace, one of the most attractive men at the 
                        Harrison
                     headquarters, but a friend of Gresham, that since the Indiana
                    delegation was instructed for 
                        Harrison
                    , no Indiana leader had a right to support any one else. To the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, the Gresham boom seemed rather curious. His candidacy
                    was pushed mostly by newspapers and especially by the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune and the Inter-Ocean. It was held to
                    be a little queer, too, that the Gresham headquarters were in the hands of a
                    self-appointed committee, representing the so-called labor element of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .61 The News also intimated
                    that the strangest thing about the whole affair was that the Judge was supported
                    in the Convention by men on whom he had been very severe. For example,
                    "After the election four years ago, Major Calkins attributed his defeat
                    largely to something that Gresham had said against him," yet Calkins
                    was in 
                        Chicago
                     working with might and main for Gresham. "Oliver Morton,
                    Jr. did the same, and yet Gresham had fought his father bitterly at 
                        Cincinnati
                     in ′76 
                  
                     59
                            
                                New Orleans
                            
                            States, clipped in Public Opinion,
                            June 9, 1888.
                  
                     60 R. C. Buley, "Campaign of 1888 in
                            Indiana," in Indiana Magazine of History, X,
                            33.
                  
                     61
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 18, 1888.
               
                     and helped to defeat him for the
                    presidential nomination."62
            
            According to a letter by Murat Halstead, published in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, the friends of Judge Gresham received a blow when Mrs.
                    Logan, wife of General John A. Logan, did not hesitate to say that her choice
                    for the presidency was General Horatio Alger, adding that "she feared
                    that the Judge was not true to the ticket in 1884." He did not even
                    give it, she asserted, "half-hearted support." She,
                    "therefore, did not feel favorable to his candidacy, and did not think
                    he stood much show, or that he ought to."63
            
            Gresham was constantly termed a "mugwump" and a "free
                    trader." His opponents defended their antagonism on the ground that he
                    supported Kerr for Congress in 1874, had not been loyal to the Republicans in
                    1876, and had voted for Cleveland in 1884.
            Nevertheless, it was reported by the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal that John Henry of 
                        Chicago
                    , who was an intimate friend of Gresham, knew that the Judge did
                    support Blaine in 1884, since Henry "was with him and saw him deposit
                    the Blaine ticket straight." This also, added the Journal, "effectually disposes of the suspicion of lukewarmness
                    on protection,"64 but one wonders how this latter
                    contention could be made.
            However, the best evidence that Gresham voted for Blaine in 1884 was his own
                    statement made during the campaign of 1892. Then he said that he had
                    "voted the Republican ticket at every Presidential election since the
                    party was organized," except in 1864, when he was not able to go to the
                        polls.65
            
            The 
                        New York
                    
                    Mail und Express declared that Gresham never had
                    "been counted among the leaders of his party," and further
                    that although he was always classed as a Republican, "for twenty years,
                    he had taken no active part, personally, in politics." He was
                    "more of a disorganizer than anything else." He
                    "adjourned his court" in 1876, to work against the nomination
                    of Governor Morton, the idol of the Republicans of Indiana, for the presidency.
                    In 1884, while a Cabinet member, he refused to lend a helping hand to his party
                    in his own state, and he had "quarreled with every prominent Republican
                    in the 
                  
                     62
                            Ibid., June 19, 1888. Major William R. Calkins was the
                            Republican candidate for governor in Indiana in 1884. He was defeated by
                            Isaac P. Gray. Calkins resigned a seat in the national House to make the
                            race.
                  
                     63 See Halstead's letter in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 16, 1888.
                  
                     64
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 21, 1888.
                  
                     65 Gresham to Bluford Wilson, Oct. 27, 1892, in
                                Literary Digest, Nov. 5, 1892.
               
                     State." When Judge Gresham went on
                    the district bench, General Tom Browne was district attorney; a quarrel arose
                    and Browne resigned. The attempted boom for the Judge in his native state had
                    already failed. Among his supporters not one prominent Republican was found.
                    Indiana had only one favorite son and leader, that was Harrison. The statements
                    of this eastern paper were not accurate as Gresham had many staunch supporters
                    at the Convention from Indiana. Such men as Charles W. Fairbanks, the leader of
                    the Gresham boom, Albert J. Beveridge, Noble C. Butler, Kenesaw M. Landis, and
                    many others were in the ranks of his friends.66
            
            According to the Sentinel of June 22, it was significant that
                    the sons of great men were for Gresham. Robert Lincoln, Stephen A. Douglas, Jr.,
                    and Fred and Jesse Grant were all active in the Judge's behalf.
                    Walker Blaine preferred him to any other man before the Convention. Fred Grant
                    heard his father say during his last illness, that the man the Republicans
                    should nominate for president was Judge Gresham.
            Conkling said just before his death that there were only two Republicans who
                    could defeat Cleveland—General Sherman and Walter Q. Gresham. The 
                        St. Paul
                    
                    Press believed that the desire for Gresham was increasing
                    daily, and that the Judge would be the successful candidate. The Indiana
                    Republicans were able to secure the election of Judge Gresham and it was
                    "their duty to refuse to allow local controversies to divide the party.
                    The Press held that it was "morally certain"
                    that Harrison could not secure the nomination.67
            
            "The men who call for Gresham," declared the independent and
                    influential 
                        Springfield
                    
                    Republican, "ask for a candidate whose prospects for
                    election would be good. They demand to know whether this man, who entered the
                    army as a private and came out a general, who is a wise judge, a clean and
                    positive personality; whose views as to tariff revision, are said to be
                    moderate;" who served in the President's Cabinet; who would
                    "antagonize no faction," whether such a one would not serve
                    the country honestly and well. The nomination of such a man was
                    "necessary to make a victory possible."68
            
            The 
                        Minneapolis
                    
                    Journal was of the opinion, that the thing which would prevent
                    the election of Judge Gresham was that 
                  
                     66 Mrs. Gresham. Gresham, XI,
                            580.
                  
                     67
                            
                                St. Paul
                            
                            Press, clipped in Public Opinion,
                            June 16, 1888.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Springfield
                            
                            Republican, clipped in ibid., June
                            2, 1888.
               
                     he would not discuss the presidency while
                    he was on the bench. Therefore there could be no "treaties" or
                    promises or "deals" of any kind. It meant that if the
                    Republicans took him it must be without pledges. This paper admired
                    "the fearless course of Judge Gresham in dealing with corporations and
                    capital." His decisions had "attracted the attention of
                    working men everywhere." He had "demonstrated repeatedly that
                    the weak and the poor have as good a chance for justice in his court, as the
                    wealthy and the powerful." If the working men "get a chance to
                    vote for him, they will gladly avail themselves of the opportunity to prove
                    their appreciation of the qualities they so heartily approve."69
            
            Robert Ingersoll was in 
                        Chicago
                     working for Gresham. He wanted Gresham because he believed the
                    Judge to be "the best and most available man." Ingersoll,
                    asserting that he was not a politician, and was not seeking an office, was for
                    Gresham because he knew that the Judge was "honest, straightforward,
                    patriotic and capable," because he was "sound to the core on
                    the question of protection;" because he is genuine man, who stood
                    "by his convictions in the field or on the bench."70
            
            To counteract the report that the laboring men were not for Gresham, on account
                    of his activities in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the strike in 1877, there was a great demonstration at the
                    time of the Convention in the streets and in the hotels by the working men in 
                        Chicago
                    , each wearing a Gresham badge and carrying a tin pail.
            On June 21, 
                        Illinois
                    , through Leonard Swett, placed the name of Walter Q. Gresham before
                    the Convention. After reviewing his life, the speaker concluded by saying that
                    Gresham was more like Lincoln than any other man. He was honest, fearless in
                    danger, full of justice, and had a noble heart. The same sympathy and confidence
                    existed between Gresham and the people as had existed between Lincoln and the
                    people. His nomination was seconded by C. K. Davis, of 
                        Minnesota
                    , John K. Lynch, a colored leader from 
                        Mississippi
                    , and by Daniel W. McDall, of 
                        Massachusetts
                    . A representative of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel reported to his paper that the nofinating speeches
                    were too long, that there was no enthusiastic response from the floor of the
                    Convention, and that but little came from 
                  
                     69
                            
                                Minneapolis
                            
                            Journal, clipped in ibid., June 9,
                            1888.
                  
                     70
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 18, 1888.
               
                     the gallery.71 The
                    meaning of this was that the stronger currents were running against the Gresham
                    forces.
            According to the statement of Mrs. Gresham, if the Judge had made the pledges
                    which Matthew Quay of Pennslyvania and Thomas C. Platt of 
                        New York
                    , who practically controlled the Convention, tried to exact from
                    him, he would have been nominated.72 Platt's
                    ambition was to be Secretary of the Treasury. Medill was convinced that only by
                    catering to Platt's desire could the Judge control the Convention,
                    and insisted that a bargain should be made. Gresham, however, was firm in his
                    stand, that if nominated, it must be without pledges.
            Shortly before the Convention, Gresham stated that he "could not
                    give…. any information as to the political situation." He
                    felt that "individual interests should weigh nothing compared with the
                    interests of the party." He declared that he was not anxious for the
                    nomination and that he would not be disappointed or unhappy over the result,
                    whatever it should be.73
            
            Gresham reached the climax of his strength on the third ballot when he received
                    123 votes. On the last ballot his strength had fallen to 59 votes. Outside of
                    the 
                        Illinois
                     delegation, his votes throughout the eight ballots were scattering.
                    Harrison, who started with 80 votes, received 544 votes on the eighth ballot and
                    was therefore nominated.74
            
            On July 7, a few weeks after the nomination of Harrison, George William Curtis
                    wrote the following to Lucius B. Swift of 
                        Indianapolis
                    : 
                        The steady departure from the Republican ranks, of the kind of men who
                            made the party and have given it character and strength, are signs not
                            to be disregarded.
                        At the convention, as reported, I saw no evidence whatever, of any
                            interest in reform, except to make a case against Mr. Cleveland. Mr.
                            Blaine's and Mr. Sherman's reform views are
                            familiar and they were the real candidates. Judge Gresham's
                            supposed identification with reasonable views of any kind was fatal to
                                him.75
                  
                    
            
            The evidence seems to be that Judge Gresham failed to become 
                  
                     71
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, June 22, 1888.
                  
                     72 Mrs. Gresham, Gresham, 11,
                            588-590.
                  
                     73 Gresham to L. C. Embree, June 1, 1888. Embree
                            letters in Indiana State Library.
                  
                     74 For a table showing the votes cast for the
                            several candidates on each of the eight ballots, see Edward Stanwood,
                                A History of the Presidency, I, 479. On the first
                            ballot Gresham stood second with 111 votes, and John Sherman first, with
                            229. On the third ballot, Gresham was second again, with 123.
                  
                     75 George William Curtis to Lucius B. Swift, June
                            7, 1888. Swift letters in Indiana State Library.
               
                     the Republican nominee for the presidncy,
                    in 1888, because he did not play into the hands of the party machine.
            From the time of the Republican National Convention of 1888, Judge Gresham became
                    more and more pronounced in his views on the tariff. He believed, as he had
                    expressed in his Wall Street speech of 1884, that tariff revision was an
                    imperative necessity. The McKinley Tariff Act of 1890 increased the breach
                    between him and the leaders, of the Republican party.
            Just after the Democratic Convention in 1888, Gresham made the statement in New 
                        Albany
                    , Indiana, that he considered "the action of the Democratic
                    Convention, in the platform accepted, a complete endorsement of the low tariff
                    wing of the party." It was a "splendid triumph," he
                    continued, "of the principles so long and so ably advocated by Mr.
                    Watterson and his Courier Journal."
               76
            
            A movement was organized to defeat President 
                        Harrison
                    's nomination for a second term at the Republican
                    Convention in 
                        Minneapolis
                     in 1892. It was led chiefly by Matthew S. Quay and Thomas C. Platt.
                    Gresham was repeatedly assured that if he would lead the fight, they would
                    nominate him; but he was decided in his stand, declearing, "I am out of
                    politics, and have no political aspiration."77 In
                    the Convention, the candidates brought forward were Blaine, McKinley, and
                    President Harrison. The President was renominated.
            An organization was started at a preliminary conference of the
                    People's party leaders, held in 
                        St. Louis
                     in February, 1892, to nominate Judge Gresham for president, at the
                    Omaha Convention, which was to be held in July. Even though Gresham had
                    repeatedly declined the nomination assured by the People's party, the
                    leaders, on the eve of assembling on July 4, were in favor of drafting him. Many
                    prominent men of both major parties declared their intention of supporting the
                    Judge, if he would accept the nomination of the new party. During the
                    Convention, General James B. Weaver, whom the People's party
                    subsequently selected as their nominee, together with other prominent members of
                    the Convention, made a final appeal by telegram soliciting Gresham's
                    acceptance. However, he did not change his former decision. His reply was the
                        
                  
                     76
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, June 8, 1888.
                  
                     77 Robert McElroy, Grover 
                                    Cleveland
                                , the Man and the Statesman (
                                New York
                            , 1923), II, 3.
               
                     same, that while he was clearly in sympathy
                    with some of the principles of the party, yet he was strongly against inflation
                    of the currency,78
            
            In the August number of the Review of Reviews
                    there appeared an article entitled, "What Might Have Been at
                    Omaha." The author stated that it was the intention of the Convention
                    to nominate Judge Gresham who would "lift the political situation well
                    out of traditional ruts." He had been a prominent Republican and his
                    decisions and actions in the judiciary positions which he had held made him
                    popular with the so-called "antimonopolists." If Gresham had
                    assumed the "role of a Moses for the new movement, there would have
                    been a great stirring up of dry bones." The strength of the
                    People's party would have been amazing in November. The Convention
                    had been assured by Populist leaders of Gresham's acceptance, so that
                    his final refusal was a severe blow to the enthusiasm of the delegates assembled
                    at Omaha.79
            
            The Indiana delegation put forth great efforts to induce Gresham to accept the
                    nomination. There was no question but that he was the choice of the
                    People's party. He was "lionized by the convention, from the
                    start, as the most available man the People's party had, and the only
                    one likely to harmonize the different factions."80
            
            The People's party needed the leadership of a "great
                    practical statesman," logical in his thinking and able to separate
                    "things essential from things trivial." Gresham would have
                    aided the party greatly in the campaign, but he denied that he entertained any
                    thought of publicly supporting Mr. Weaver the nominee.81
            
            The Judge had been much more deeply interested in the Democratic National
                    Convention which was held in 
                        Chicago
                    . The platform contained a plank for tariff reform, which harmonized
                    with his views. Isaac P. Gray of Indiana was a possible nominee for
                    vice-president, but after Cleveland was selected as the presidential candidate,
                    Gresham suggested to the Democratic managers that since they were sure of the
                        
                  
                     78 Mrs. Gresham, Gresham, II,
                            363.
                  
                     79
                            Review of Reviews, VI, 9.
                  
                     80
                            Ibid., VI. 135-136.
                  
                     81 Ernest D. Stewart, "The Populist Party
                            in Indiana," in Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XIV, 363.
               
                     pivotal state of Indiana, it would be well
                    to choose a running mate from 
                        Illinois
                     and carry that state also. Adlai E. Stevenson, of 
                        Illinois
                    , was nominated.
            After it was definitely certain that Gresham would not support the
                    People's party ticket it seemed to be taken for granted, generally,
                    that he was still within the fold of the Republican party. It was made known to
                    the Judge that if a vacancy came in the Supreme Court he would receive the
                    appointment. Inasmuch as he was now opposed to the Republican principles, he
                    caused it to be announced that even though a position on the Supreme Court was
                    tendered him by President Harrison he would not accept it. Then the idea was
                    presented to the country that Walter Q. Gresham intended to vote for Grover
                    Cleveland.
            So many contradictory statements were made, and so many appeals and protests were
                    forthcoming that the Judge finally decided that the best method by which to make known his position was through a public letter.
                    Thereupon, the following letter written to a friend that it might be published,
                    appeared in the Literary Digest of November 5, 1892: 
                        I have your letter of 21st, inst. I did tell you at 
                                Springfield
                             that after mature reflection I had determined to vote for
                            Mr. Cleveland this fall because I agree in the main with his views on
                            the tariff and did not believe in the principles embodied in the
                            McKinley Bill. I adhere to that determination and have said nothing
                            indicating a change of purpose.
                        It is not true that with my knowledge or consent the President was asked
                            to appoint me to any office. It is not true that I requested anyone to
                            say or to do anything to obtain the Republican nomination this year. It
                            is not true that I voted for Mr. Cleveland in 1888. I voted the
                            Republican ticket at every presidential election since the party was
                            organized, except in 1864, when I was not able to go to the polls.
                        The Republicans were pledged to a reduction of the war tariff long before
                            1888, and during the campaign of that year the pledge was renewed with
                            emphasis again and again. Instead of keeping that promise the McKinley
                            Bill was passed, imposing still higher duties.
                        It was passed in the interest of favored classes, and not for the benefit
                            of the whole people.
                        It neither enhanced the price of farm products nor benefitted labor.
                            Wages are and ever will be regulated by supply and demand. Duties were
                            imposed on some articles so high as to destroy competition and foster
                            trusts and monopolies. I think you will agree with me that this was an
                            abandonment of the doctrine of moderate incidental protection.
                        The tariff is now the most important question before the people and
                            whatever others may do I shall exercise the right of individual judgment
                            and vote according to my convictions.
                        
                        I think, with you, that a Republican can vote for Mr. Cleveland without
                            joining the Democratic party. How I shall vote in the future will depend
                            on the question at issue.82
                  
                    
            
            Woodrow Wilson considered Gresham's announcement that he would vote
                    for Cleveland "one of the notable incidents of the campaign."
                    He stated that Gresham's attitude changed many votes, especially in
                    Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , "where his name stood for courage, sagacity, integrity
                    and public spirit."83 Be that as it may, Cleveland
                    received a safe majority over his opponents President Harrison and General
                    Weaver in the electoral college.
            The President-elect without suggestion, pressure from anyone, or the knowledge of
                    his campaign managers, determined to offer Gresham the first place in his
                    Cabinet. In his letter to Gresham tendering him the headship of the State
                    Department, Cleveland said: "In what may be called an emergency, in the
                    affairs of the people, I need you. Will you come to us?"84 This offer came as a great surprise to Judge Gresham. His wife and
                    son, Otto, objected to his acceptance. They felt that the Judge's
                    popularity would be sacrificed and that his motives would be misjudged. Owing
                    partly to their influence, the offer was at first rejected. Notwithstanding, a
                    number of Cleveland's personal friends and prominent Democrats, among
                    them John G. Carlisle, recently selected to be Secretary of the Treasury, urged
                    Gresham to accept. He still hesitated. Cleveland sent him a message asking him
                    to reconsider his refusal. It was the appeal made by Henry Watterson, however,
                    who was not a friend of Cleveland, that finally persuaded Gresham to accept the
                        offer.85 He was reported to have said in regard to his
                    acceptance of the post: 
                        I accepted the Secretaryship of State, purely from a sense of duty.
                            I've had all that I care for in politics, I know its
                            shallowness and its intrigues, and it was not the glamour that prompted
                            me to accept. I had no desire to return to 
                                Washington
                            , and whatever may be said, I accepted simply because the
                            office was urged upon me as a duty that I owe to the American people.86
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  82 Gresham to Bluford Wilson, Oct. 27, 1892, in Literary Digest, Nov. 5, 1892.
               
                  83 Woodrow Wilson, "Mr.
                        Cleveland's Cabinet," in Review of
                        Reviews VII, 287-289.
               
                  84
                        
                            Philadelphia
                        
                        Ledger, "Motive in the Selection of
                        Gresham," clipped in Literary Digest, March 4,
                        1893.
               
                  85 Schuyler, "Walter Quintin
                        Gresham," in American Secretaries of State, VIII,
                        227.
               
                  86
                        Literary Digest, March 4, 1893.
            
            
            It had been rumored for some time that the western jurist would be offered a
                    place in the new administration, but the selection of Judge Gresham to the
                    premiership of the Cabinet caused the greatest excitement and comment not only
                    among politicians of both parties but among business men and citizens of all
                    classes. However, all were agreed in regard to the Judge's honesty
                    and efficiency. Even by those who criticized the appointment most severely, it
                    was admitted that he was competent and eminently fitted for any position that
                    might be offered him. The chief objection voiced was that the Judge was such a
                    recent comer among Democrats. But it must be remembered that he never had been
                    an extreme partizan, and for sometime, had been out of sympathy with the
                    Republican party. According to the 
                        Boston
                    
                    Republic, "He never had a high regard for Benjamin
                    Harrison and Reedism, and Mc-Kinleyism made him shudder." His position
                    on the federal bench barred him from participating in partizan politics.
                    However, under the circumstances existing in 1892, he felt it his duty to break
                    away from his traditions, and publicly throw his support to Cleveland.
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel of February 10, carried a heavy headline relative to
                    the appointment and declared that there was "joy in the camp, over the
                    news," that Gresham would be premier in the incoming administration.
                    His conservative and judicial cast of mind made him well fitted for the
                    position. His selection was accepted with almost universal favor not only by
                    Indiana Democrats, but by the Democracy of the country in general.87
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal presented the following on the situation: 
                        There is not a Democrat in 
                                Washington
                            , who does not, in private, remind the casual observer, by
                            his facial contortions, of a man biting a green persimmon, when he hears
                            the name of Gresham mentioned, and yet there is scarce a one of them,
                            who dares to breathe his discontent.88
                  
                    
            
            The Journal contended that it was humiliating to Democrats that 
                        Cleveland
                     could find no statesman among them able to fill the first Cabinet
                    position. Gresham was evidently a poor choice, being "blunt, aggressive
                    and open in procedure and accomplishments." He had "no skill
                    in diplomacy, or learning 
                  
                     87
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Feb. 10, 1893.
                  
                     88
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Feb. 12, 1893.
               
                     in international law," nor had he
                    any "power in handling men." He might have served in the
                    Department of the Interior or as Postmaster-General, but Democrats in Congress
                    saw nothing that fitted him for Secretary of State. The leading Republican organ
                    of Indiana concluded that these must have been some underlying secret reason
                    that caused his selection, intimating that it was Gresham's reward
                    for aiding quietly in Cleveland's nomination, and publicly in his
                        election.89
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News felt sure that to the independent and conservative
                    element of the party, the appointment would be satisfactory, but possibly not to
                    the party organization and old-line Democrats. On February 13, the News published comments on Gresham's appointment in which
                    the Honorable W. H. English declared that he was not dissatisfied in the least
                    with the selection. On the contrary, English felt about Gresham's
                    appointment as Clay did about the annexation of 
                        Texas
                    , when he said, "I think I should be glad to see
                    it." English and Gresham were born in the same congressional district.
                    They belonged to different parties, but were always personal friends. English
                    believed that Gresham "by nature was a Democrat," and had
                    drifted into the Republican party through "family and other
                    influences." For years he was certain that the Judge had been in
                    sympathy with the leading Democratic principles. It was natural that Cleveland
                    would give some recognition to the Independents who supported him, and the
                    selection of Gresham was the "very best, he could have
                        made."90 Two days later the same paper
                    contained the opinions of other 
                        Indianapolis
                     citizens in regard to Gresham as a Cabinet member. Among these
                    Thomas Taggart expressed his high regard for Gresham, who, he felt, was amply
                    able to fill any position that Cleveland would bestow upon him. At the same time
                    Taggart feared that the appointment would not "meet the general
                    approval of those who for many years had been identified with the Democratic
                        party."91
            
            Woodrow Wilson discussing 
                        Cleveland
                    's Cabinet in a current magazine characterized Gresham as
                    a man of fine qualities of mind, "of engaging liberality of temper, and
                    elevation of moral view." Yet he believed that with "all his
                    reading, his 
                  
                     89
                            Ibid., Feb. 15, 1893.
                  
                     90
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Feb. 11, 1893.
                  
                     91
                            Ibid., Feb. 13, 1893.
               
                     knowledge of men, and of the history of the
                    country, wide sympathies and quick insight, he will be a novice in adjusting the
                    foreign relations of the country." Gresham's learning and
                    experience was far from the diplomatic field. He would be ignorant regarding the
                    affairs of state, but would, no doubt, have been a fine Secretary of the
                    Interior. "It would seem a pity, I say," added Professor
                    Wilson, "to lose so fine a Secretary of the Interior in order that a
                    man of brilliant gifts may have the honor of the chief post in the
                        Administration."92
            
            Possibly no other Cabinet appointment ever caused so much comment and criticism
                    as that of Judge Gresham to the office of Secretary of State. The party which he
                    deserted naturally condemned the selection and there was some bitter resentment.
                    Of course, there was a dissatisfied element in the Democratic party who
                    disapproved of the appointment to a high office of any one who had just come
                    over from the enemy's ranks.
            Gresham was, however, received into the Democratic family at 
                        Washington
                     with a hearty welcome. He entered upon the duties of his new office
                    at once. There were several international questions left unsettled by the former
                    administration. Before the inauguration, the newly selected Secretary of State
                    had a conference with President-elect Cleveland at his home at Lakewood, 
                        New Jersey
                    . One of the questions discussed was the Bering Sea arbitration. The
                    commissioners were to meet in 
                        Paris
                     on February 23, 1893, but the work did not really begin until after
                    Cleveland became President. Seal hunters were depopulating the waters of Bering
                    Sea and making vast profits. During Cleveland's first administration,
                    a controversy with the Dominion of 
                        Canada
                     arose. Secretary of State, Thomas F. Bayard, decided to confine the 
                        United States
                     claims to the three-mile limit in the Alaskan waters, and to urge
                    the British and Canadian governments to stop seal fishing in the open seas. The
                    question was not settled and became more serious under the Harrison
                    administration. The 
                        Paris
                     arbitration commissioners conducted the investigation before
                    Secretary of State, John W. Foster, who served under Harrison, and gave a
                    decision in favor of Great Britain. The 
                        United States
                     succeeded in holding only those rights previously held by Russia in
                    Alaskan and adjacent waters. This was 
                  
                     92 Wilson, "Cleveland's
                            Cabinet," in Review of Reviews, VIII,
                            287-289.
               
                     far short of what the American government
                    claimed. Secretary Gresham accepted the report subject to the appropriation by
                    Congress of $425,000 awarded to Great Britain in full settlement. But
                    the next Congress, for partizan reasons refused to make the appropriation. A
                    joint commission was appointed in 1897 which awarded Great Britain
                    $48,151.26 more than had the tribunal of 1893. Congress then made the
                    appropriation authorizing the payment of the award.
            The most significant international question, and the one that brought forth the
                    greatest store of adverse criticism on the State Department, was the policy in
                    relation to the Hawaiian Islands. For instance, Gresham was accused of leaving
                    the bench of a federal circuit court to become premier in a Democratic Cabinet
                    in order to reverse one of Harrison's pet schemes. His attack on the
                    Hawaiian policy of the former administration was carried to the extent of
                    bolstering up the worn out Hawaiian dynasty by force.93
            
            In January, 1893, just before Cleveland first approached Judge Gresham, a revolt,
                    organized largely by a Committee of Public Safety, had deposed the Hawaiian
                    queen and established a provisional government. Then a deputation of five
                    commissioners was sent to 
                        Washington
                     to secure annexation to the 
                        United States
                    . Within eleven days the commission and Secretary of State Foster
                    had drawn up a treaty of annexation which was submitted to the Senate on
                    February 14, 1893, together with a message from President Harrison urging
                    ratification. At the Lakewood conference, between Cleveland and Gresham before
                    Cleveland's inauguration, Gresham expressed opposition to the
                    aggressive policy of the Harrison administration in regard to the annexation of
                    the Hawaiian Islands.
            Three days after the inauguration, the President withdrew the Harrison treaty of
                    annexation from the Senate, and, upon the advice of Secretary Gresham, sent
                    James H. Blount of 
                        Georgia
                    , recently chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee of the House,
                    as a special commissioner to 
                        Hawaii
                     to ascertain "the facts." Blount's
                    report strengthened the belief of the administration that the Americans had
                    aided the revolution with a view to acquiring the Islands. Attention was drawn
                    to a sentence in a dispatch from John L. Stevens, the 
                  
                     93 Arthur Wallace Dunn, From Harrison
                                to Harding (
                                New York
                            , 1922), I, 109.
               
                     American minister at Honolulu at the time
                    of the revolt, under date of February 1, 1893, in which that official said:
                    "The Hawaiian pear is fully ripe, and this is the golden hour for the 
                        United States
                     to pluck it."94
            
            Secretary Gresham's policy was to restore the rights of the Queen. In
                    closing a review of Blount's report to the President, he said: 
                        Should not a great wrong done to a feeble, but independent State by an
                            abuse of the authority of the 
                                United States
                            , be undone, by restoring the legitimate government?
                            Anything short of that, will not, I respectfully submit, satisfy the
                            demands of justice.
                        Can the 
                                United States
                             consistently insist that other nations shall respect the
                            independence of 
                                Hawaii
                             while not respecting it themselves? Our government was the
                            first to recognize the independence of the islands, it should be the
                            last to acquire sovereignty over them, by force and fraud.95
                  
                    
            
            Albert S. Willis, our new minister to Honolulu, was instructed to have an
                    interview with the Queen on his arrival in 
                        Hawaii
                    . He was to assure her that the Harrison Treaty would not be sent to
                    the Senate, and to express the President's "sincere
                    regrets" for the "reprehensible conduct" of Minister
                    Stevens, which had "obliged her to surrender her sovereignty,"
                    and that she could rely on the justice of the 
                        United States
                     government.96
            
            A letter was also sent to the provisional government stating the attitude of the
                    Cleveland Administration toward the Hawaiian situation. Minister Willis
                    explained to the Queen that her rights would be restored, provided she would
                    grant complete amnesty to all connected with the provisional government. This
                    she refused to do, as the laws of her government required persons who had
                    committed treason to be beheaded and their property confiscated. The Queen,
                    herself, thus blocked restoration, and the Cleveland Administration found itself
                    at the end of the tether. Gresham ordered Willis to explain that the President
                    could not use force without the authorization of Congress. On December 18, 1893,
                    Cleveland laid the whole controversy before Congress, for such action as it
                    might advise.
            
               
                        Hawaii
                     continued under the provisional government until 
                  
                     94 Schuyler, "Walter Q.
                            Gresham," in American Secretaries of State.
                            VIII, 243-245.
                  
                     95
                            Public Opinion, Nov. 16, 1893.
                  
                     96 Henry James, Richard Olney and His
                                Public Service (
                                Boston
                            , 1923), 90.
               
                     July 4, 1894, when the Hawaiian Republic
                    with a liberal constitution was proclaimed. The following month President
                    Cleveland recognized the new Republic. The Senate, in January, 1895, after
                    prolonged discussion, passed a resolution approving the
                    Administration's policy of non-intervention. The Hawaiian government
                    continued undisturbed, with the exception of an unsuccessful revolution in 1895,
                    until 1898, when, during the Spanish-American War, the islands were annexed to
                    the 
                        United States
                     by a joint resolution of Congress.
            Many Republican newspapers explained the Hawaiian policy of the Cleveland
                    Administration as an outgrowth of Gresham's hostility to ex-President
                    Harrison. On account of "personal hatred," it was charged, the
                    Secretary of State had deliberately "thrown away the key to the
                        Pacific."97 On the other side, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel claimed that the Gresham policy gave general
                    satisfaction. The national government would "not play the part of the
                    bully" nor be involved in questionable transactions. It was the pride
                    of America that she had protected the weak countries of the western continents
                    against the greed of Europe. The last administration had established a brilliant
                    foreign policy under a pretense of friendship. The only proper course to pursue
                    was to retrace our steps in the Hawaiian matter. The Sentinel
                    hoped that Congress would arrive at that conclusion.98
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News concurred with the Cleveland Administration, holding that
                    the facts relating to both sides of the revolution centering at Honolulu should
                    be ascertained before a decision as to the policy of the 
                        United States
                     could be made. "Let us act as men and Americans, not as
                    partisans," was the appeal made to the country by this independent
                    paper. Gresham evidently understood the situation. If, on the other hand, the
                    Cleveland Administration was playing the game of politics, that fact would be
                    found out.99 The attitude of the Administration received the
                    support of the 
                        Baltimore
                    
                    Sun and of the 
                        Boston
                    
                    Herald. If the government of 
                        Hawaii
                     was unjustly overthrown, it should be restored.100 Nothing would 
                  
                     97
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 13, 1893. See also editorial opinions
                            from 
                                St. Paul
                            
                            Pioneer Press, 
                                Providence
                            
                            Journal, and 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Inter-Ocean. clipped in Public
                            Opinion, Nov. 23, Nov. 30, and Nov. 16, 1893.
                  
                     98
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 13, 1893.
                  
                     99
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Nov. 15, 1893.
                  
                     100
                            
                                Baltimore
                            
                            Sun and 
                                Boston
                            
                            Herald, clipped in Public Opinion,
                            Nov. 16, 1893.
               
                     strengthen the administration and win the
                    "confidence of fair-minded and right-thinking men," better
                    than the act of justice to 
                        Hawaii
                     which Secretary Gresham announced, asserted the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times.
               101
            
            The de facto government of 
                        Hawaii
                     sent Lorin A. Thurston as minister to the 
                        United States
                    . During the time the movement was on foot to restore Queen
                    Liliuokalani, stormy interviews between Secretary Gresham and Thurston took
                    place. Gresham's letter to the 
                        United States
                     minister at Honolulu sets forth in detail the circumstances of the
                    rupture which took place between himself and Thurston. According to the
                    Secretary of State, Thurston called at the State Department to discuss the
                    alleged violation of the neutrality laws of the 
                        United States
                     in carrying arms to 
                        Hawaii
                    . "After a brief" discussion of this subject,
                    Gresham mentioned that he understood that Thurston "was not pleased
                    with the action of Minister Willis" in connection with recent events in
                    Honolulu. Whereupon "Thurston desired to know why" the
                    Secretary should arrive at such a conclusion. Gresham then inquired of the
                    Hawaiian minister if he were responsible for matter that had appeared in a 
                        New York
                     paper, written by a "prominent" Hawaiian lawyer,
                    describing the situation in Honolulu and which matter was adverse to the
                    Administration and reflected upon its Hawaiian policy? Thurston denied that he
                    furnished the article to the newspaper but acknowledged that "he had
                    permitted an employee or agent of one of the press associations to copy at his
                    legation a private letter or letters which he had received." He
                    declared that he furnished the letter simply "as news or information
                    which the public might like to know from Honolulu." It was not done in
                    his representative capacity nor to cause a bitter feeling against the
                    Administration or against Minister Willis. Two days later Thurston again called
                    at the State Department. This time he admitted that he "was guilty of
                    official impropriety in furnishing for publication the matter"
                    previously mentioned. He regretted what he had done and apologized for it. The
                    secretary requested that his apology be presented in official form but Thurston
                    declined to acquiesce because he "did not feel called upon to make a
                    written apology." The Secretary was surprised that a foreign minister
                    would use "influence through 
                  
                     101
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times. clipped in ibid.
                  
               
                     the press to bias public opinion in a
                    country whose hospitality he enjoyed," adding "that the
                    President would be pleased were Mr. Thurston replaced by another minister from 
                        Hawaii
                     in whom he may feel that confidence which is essential to frank and
                    cordial intercourse.102 The government at Honolulu was
                    notified that a new minister would be acceptable to the government of the 
                        United States
                    .
            Concerning 
                        Cuba
                    , the Cleveland Administration was anxious to maintain perfect
                    neutrality relative to the disturbance existing there. Nevertheless, supplies
                    from the 
                        United States
                     were reaching the Cuban shores. In March, 1895, the 
                        United States
                     mail ship, Alliance, was fired upon by a Spanish
                    gunboat, when six miles off the Cuban coast. The Secretary of State made very
                    strong statements to the Spanish government and received a "disavowal
                    of any intended discourtesy and an apology from the Spanish
                        government."103 After Secretary
                    Gresham's death, President Cleveland notified the Spanish government
                    that its explanations were accepted, thus closing the incident.
            In 1889, 
                        Brazil
                     had overthrown the monarchial form of government and established a
                    republic. In September, 1893, a revolt in the Brazilian navy broke out in an
                    attempt to crush the republican government and restore the old regime. American
                    shipping suffered as did also British shipping. Reports reached 
                        Washington
                     that Great Britain intended withdrawing her protection from the
                    operations of neutral commerce at Rio de Janeiro, and the Brazilian minister
                    claimed to have information that several European nations were aiding the
                    insurgents. Secretary Gresham sent the following message to Thomas F. Bayard,
                    American ambassador to the Court of St. James: "The consistent views of
                    the Government of the 
                        United States
                    , touching non-intervention of the powers of Europe, in the domestic
                    questions of the American hemisphere have become well known abroad, and are
                    firmly rooted here."104
            
            Having restated to Great Britain the Western Hemisphere policy of the 
                        United States
                    , the Cleveland Administration sent General Benham with his flagship
                    and several cruisers to Rio de Janeiro with instructions to protect American
                    commerce. 
                  
                     102
                            House Document, No. 1, Part 2, 54 Cong., 1 Seas.,
                            876-881.
                  
                            103
                            Dictionary of American Biography.
                        
                  
                     104 Schuyler, "Walter Q.
                            Gresham," in American Secretaries of State.
                            VIII, 253-254.
               
                     Upon the Admiral's arrival,
                    complaints were brought to him by various ship captains that they were being
                    fired upon by the insurgents. Thereupon he sent orders to the insurgents that
                    firing on American vessels must cease, and, moreover, that he would sink any
                    vessel that attempted to stop the progress of his ships to the wharf. A few
                    shots were exchanged and the rebels surrendered. This ended their efforts to
                    reestablish a monarchy in 
                        Brazil
                    . This was only one of the instances in which Secretary Gresham
                    expressed his firm belief in the 
                        Monroe
                     Doctrine.
            One of the most knotty problems which occurred during Gresham's period
                    in the State Department was that relating to the Mosquito Coast. This
                    controversy which had begun in 1838 when the British vice-consul informed the
                    Nicaraguan government that the Mosquito Indians were an independent nation under
                    the protection of Great Britain. Prolonged discussions with the 
                        United States
                     over the violation of the 
                        Monroe
                     Doctrine occurred. The questions at issue were supposed to be
                    settled by the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty of 1850, which stipulated that neither the 
                        United States
                     nor Great Britain would ever "occupy, or fortify, or
                    colonize, or assume, or exercise any doninion over Nicaragua, Costo Rica, the
                    Mosquito Coast, or any part of Central America." Differences of opinion
                    over the interpretation of the treaty followed, and finally in 1894, a
                    provisional government was set up in which the local British consul and a
                    British naval officer had prominent parts. Secretary Gresham at once ordered
                    Ambassador Bayard to ascertain the cause of British action. The British Foreign
                    Office denied any intention to extend British authority over any part of
                    Nicaragua. The aim was simply to protect British citizens. Secretary Gresham
                    maintained in his reply to the British government, that according to the
                    Clayton-Bulwer Treaty, joint authority of Great Britain and Nicaragua could not
                    exist on the Mosquito Coast, and that no foreign agency would be permitted to
                    dictate to Nicaragua. The British government explained that the only wish was to
                    cooperate with the 
                        United States
                     for the protection of the interests of both governments, but the
                    State Department refused to be drawn into any joint agreement.105 Great Britain withdrew and the Mosquito Reserve question was settled.
            
               
                  105
                        Ibid., VIII, 255-260.
            
            
            In 1894, both 
                        China
                     and 
                        Japan
                     sent troops into 
                        Korea
                     to put down an uprising against the government. When the rebellion
                    was settled, the Korean King asked that the troops be withdrawn. This 
                        Japan
                     refused to do. The King made an appeal to foreign governments,
                    stating that the independence of 
                        Korea
                     was threatened. Secretary Gresham through the Japanese minister at 
                        Washington
                     urged a peaceful settlement adding that, if the situation
                    continued, European powers would possibly interfere. 
                        Japan
                     withdrew her troops and the war ended.
            The Secretary of State deplored our action in the Samoan Islands and urged the
                    President to recommend to Congress in his message of May 9, 1894, a withdrawal
                    from the Tripartite Treaty of 1889.106 He believed it a
                    departure from the traditional policy of the 
                        United States
                     and declared: "Every nation, and especially every strong
                    nation, must sometimes be conscious of an impulse to rush into difficulties that
                    do not concern it, except in a highly imaginary way."107
            
            Gresham's death occurred during the first stages of the Venezuelan
                    boundary dispute, which was therefore left to his successor, Richard Olney, who
                    sent a note to the British government that was practically an ultimatum.
                    However, had Gresham lived, the question might have been settled with less
                    excitement and ill feeling, as is indicated by the following dispatch from
                    Gresham to Ambassador Bayard at 
                        London
                    , dated December 1,1894: "
                        England
                     and America are fully committed to the principle of arbitration,
                    and this government will gladly do what it can to furnish a determination in
                    that sense." Judge Gresham believed he could make such a statement of
                    the case that the British government would accept it or ask that it be left to
                    arbitration. Later, Mrs. Gresham in conversation with a friend regarding the
                    Venezuelan dispute said: "There was to be no ultimatum as my husband
                    had prepared it (the note to Great Britain), and Mr. Olney and Mr. Cleveland are
                    entitled to all the credit for such a state paper."108
            
            Speculators were disappointed because the State Department did not establish a
                    more vigorous foreign policy, but the Secretary opposed imperialism as being
                    contrary to the principles 
                  
                     106 Great Britain, 
                                Germany
                             and the 
                                United States
                            , to enhance trade relations, had agreed to maintain King
                            Malietoa on the throne of the Samoan Islands.
                  
                     107 Schuyler, "Walter Q.
                            Gresham," in American Secretaries of State.
                            VIII, 262.
                  
                     108
                            Ibid., VIII, 266.
               
                     and traditions of the American republic
                    because it involved large armaments and because his theory was that a strong
                    nation should protect a weaker nation.
            In April, Secretary Gresham contracted a cold which developed into pleurisy and
                    finally into pneumonia which led to his death on May 28, 1895. He was
                    temporarily buried in Oakwood Cemetery, 
                        Chicago
                    . A year later his remains were taken to Arlington Cemetery, His
                    final resting place is near the Lee mansion. The family was accompanied to 
                        Chicago
                     by President Cleveland.
            In some respects Judge Walter Q. Gresham did not measure up to "the
                    ideal requirements of a Secretary of State." He received
                    "ambassadors and ministers—men bred in most punctilious
                    etiquette—sitting in his shirt sleeves at his desk, chewing on the
                    stump of a cigar." Persons familiar with his habits noticed that
                    "he was overfond of lounging about the corridors of
                    Willard's Hotel, and mingling with the very motley mob which sprawled
                    there at all hours of the day and night."109
                    According to an observer, he was the man who first put 
                        shirt sleeve diplomacy into actual visual operation. He was handsome,
                            personally attractive and his free and easy western habits led him into
                            the indiscretion of receiving diplomats at his office in his shirt
                            sleeves, when the weather was hot. This only increased the additional
                            sneers of Europeans at the alleged crudeness and amateurishness of the
                            handling of international questions by the 
                                United States
                            .
                     He was a typical American, "red-blooded, honest-minded, alert
                    mentally and physically, but lacking in that sort of discriminating tact and
                    physical camouflage," which is "supposed to be necessary in
                    the conduct of diplomatic affairs."110
            
            In a contemporary magazine article, by Henry Cabot Lodge, headed "Our
                    Blundering Foreign Policy," that "scholar in
                    politics" asserted: "Indeed the desire of the Administration
                    to retreat has been the desire to meddle." The State Department was so
                    anxious "to yield to any foreign demand" that Mr. Gresham
                    actually advised giving up even obvious rights.111 In
                    contrast to the estimate of Mr. Lodge that of the Nation is
                    interesting: "Judged by the international standards (and that is the
                    standard by which a Secretary of State should be chiefly 
                  
                     109 Harry Thurston Peck, Twenty Years
                                of the Republic (
                                New York
                            , 1906), 308.
                  
                     110 David S. Barry, Forty Years in 
                                    Washington
                                
                      (
                                Boston
                            , 1924), 177-179.
                  
                     111 Henry Cabot Lodge, "Our Blundering
                            Foreign Policy," in Forum, XIX, 11-13.
               
                     judged), Mr. Gresham has been a great
                    success and has made American honor, capacity, and courtesy mean more in the
                    eyes of the world than they had meant for many a day."112
            
            With the exception of approximately five years, Walter Q. Gresham was in public
                    service from the time he became a member of the State Legislature in 1861 until
                    his death in 1895. While it cannot be said that he rose rapidly in public life,
                    yet each appointment could be called a promotion. It is of interest that he
                    resigned each position that he held, with the exception of General in the Civil
                    War when a severe wound ended his military career and that of Secretary of State
                    which was ended by his death.
            Gresham's greatest strength was in his absolute honesty and undaunted
                    courage. No matter how severely his enemies censured him at no time was he
                    charged with deception, dishonesty or fraud. The criticism which he received
                    relative to the Hawaiian controversy can hardly be justified when compared with
                    his conscientious administration of all foreign affairs. He was courageous
                    enough in the face of adverse criticism, both of the public and of the press, to
                    make no unjust claims for his government. Because he advocated square dealing
                    and fairness, and because he refused to follow his party into paths, which, in
                    his judgment, were wrong, he never had the support of party bosses or of the
                    party machine. His independence caused him many bitter enemies.
            Gresham was as fearless on the field of battle as he was in rendering his
                    decisions on the federal bench. He was as true to his convictions on the tariff
                    question as he was in his dealings in foreign affairs. It was his natural
                    temperament.
            In rendering judicial decisions and in arriving at conclusions, he was perhaps
                    hasty. In his manners he was, no doubt, blunt, and cared little for that
                    superficial polish which makes so many political leaders prominent. In his
                    various public positions, as member of the Indiana State Legislature, as Colonel
                    and Brigadier-General in the Civil War, as 
                        United States
                     District Judge, as Postmaster-General and Secretary of the Treasury
                    in President Arthur's Cabinet, as 
                        United States
                     Circuit Judge, and as Secretary of State, Walter Quintin Gresham
                    unquestionably rendered valuable service to both his state and to his nation.
            
               
                  112
                        The Nation, May 30, 1895. Dr. James A. Woodburn in his
                        "Sketch of Gresham" quotes this passage with
                    approval.
            
         
         
         
            Cravenhurst
            By JULIE LE CLERC
                        KNOX
            
            
               
                        Michigan
                     Hill, back of the quaint, little city of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, is rich in fine old mansions. At its crest is
                    Cravenhurst, the home of an old and distinguished family. Here the twelve
                    children of Judge John R. Cravens were reared.1 Senator
                    Joseph M. Cravens was born there. It was in 1851 that this house was built by
                    John Brough, at that time the fir& president of the 
                        Madison
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana's first steam railroad. The tunnels which he
                    constructed through the hills of North 
                        Madison
                     constituted one of the most wonderful feats of engineering then
                    known and were at first called "Brough's Folly".2
            
            Cravenhurst is a three-story brick house set in the midst of veteran trees, with
                    a broad veranda, suggestive of southern homes, sweeping in a wide curve across
                    the front, side and back. This feature is an addition, made some forty years
                    ago, replacing the original, little front stoop. Such stoops were popular in the
                    architecture of the day in which the house was built. The veranda is, therefore,
                    something of a subtraction as it takes somewhat from the unity of the first
                    plan. There is the usual front hall of the period, cutting through the center,
                    the entire width of the house, to the rear veranda, and the usual stairways with
                    easy tread, ascending by graceful curves, to the second and third floors. The
                    rooms on the highest floor which served as servants' quarters in the
                    old days, include a wide, central hall off from which open two light and airy
                    bedrooms. Each of these has front and back closet-like attics which could easily
                    be transformed into snug winter bedrooms. The south room is especially
                    attractive with wall paper of yellow-bird design (impossible to match now) and a
                        
                  
                     1 In recent years, Cravenhurst became the property
                            of Mr. and Mrs. J. W. LaGrange, who made an inn of the place. Since the
                            death of Mr. LaGrange in July, 1933, Mrs. LaGrange has continued the
                            business, with herself as manager of the inn. Joseph M. Cravens served
                            for a number of years as a Democratic state Senator from the senatorial
                            district which includes 
                                Jefferson
                             County.
                  
                     2 John Brough was a well known newspaper man of 
                                Ohio
                             before his brief period of residence in Indiana. He was
                            successively editor of the Western Republican
                            (Marietta), the 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Eagle (
                                Lancaster
                            ), and the 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Enquirer. These were Democratic organs. The last
                            mentioned paper, which he purchased in 1844, was known as the 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Advertizer before that date. It was from 1848 to 1863
                            that Brough was devoted to railroad interests. After living in 
                                Madison
                             and then in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , he became a resident of 
                                Cleveland
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            . He wad elected Governor of 
                                Ohio
                             in 1863, the Democratic candidate being Clement L.
                            Vallandigham. Brough, a lifelong Democrat, was made the candidate of the 
                                Union
                             party for Governor in 1863, because of a speech made at
                            Marietta, 
                                Ohio
                            , on June 10, of that year.
               
                     large, doorlike window, swinging out on
                    hinges upon a lovely view of restful, green lawn.
            Four roomy bedrooms on the second floor have wonderful old bureaus, chests,
                    dressing tables, four-poster beds, mirrors and other furniture in keeping. As
                    one looks at the framed Godey prints on the walls one almost expects the lovely
                    ladies to glide out in their hoop skirts and give surprised greetings, so much
                    do the surroundings seem theirs. The most unusual things to be observed and
                    enjoyed are the rare old bells, still in the walls, by which the servants were
                    summoned in the days of the mansion's pride and glory. From the
                    landing on the second floor, the visitor may step back and emerge on a sort of
                    porch which looks like a conservatory, from which leads another series of rooms
                    and still more rooms—some twenty in all.
            On the ground floor, spacious double parlors are on the right of the hall. They
                    are divided by the fluted Corinthian pillars characteristic of old mansions in 
                        Madison
                    . Each parlor has its wonderful mantel piece and at each end of both
                    rooms, between the windows, are large gold-framed pier glasses. Heavy brass
                    cornices, suggestive of the old royal palaces of 
                        France
                    , extend across the mirrors and the windows as well. Elaborate
                    French gilt chandeliers strengthen the impression of foreign magnificence. There
                    is at least one chair that has passed the century mark. Needless to say it seems
                    thoroughly at home in its surroundings. A Birge-Mallory clock with its
                    invariable spread eagle, adorns the front mantel while a Seth Thomas of scarcely
                    less ancient "vintage" surmounts the corresponding mantel in
                    the back parlor. All the furnishings, chairs, sofas, tables, and other articles
                    are beautiful antiques that would delight the eye of a collector,
            At the left of the hall the house extends in a long drawn out wing of two
                    stories, the lower part terminating in an ell rising in a sort of postscript, as
                    it were, of more and more bedrooms. Here is a back stair leading to the third
                    story, already described, and an elevator, erected by Senator Joe Cravens for an
                    invalid sister.
            One of the most remarkable art treasures which the house contains is an old and
                    unique Chinese chandelier, beaded and fringed. Brought from the Orient by the
                    son of Governor Brough, it has shed light on the comings and goings of the old
                         place for some eighty years. Much of
                    the paper on the walls is of very ancient pattern, which has clearly been there
                    for many years. It would be expected, of course, that the old mansion would have
                    a lion's head knocker on the front hall door.3
                    The once extensive grounds have been diminished until now they include only ten
                    acres. Several drives lead to the hospitable front door of the dignified home
                    where so many distinguished guests have been entertained. When James Whitcomb
                    Riley was entertained here by Miss Drusilla Cravens, he composed a poem which he
                    scribbled on the margin of Moulton's edition of the Book
                        of Job.
               4
            
            The present home of Miss Drusilla Cravens is nearer 
                        Madison
                    , being farther down the hill. Its architecture is of the Victorian
                    period and it is approached by a beautiful driveway. At the front is a wonderful
                    sun-parlor and just back of it a living-room commanding a magnificent view of
                    the Ohio River. There is a music room with souveniers that
                    recall some of the most distinguished musicians. Among them is a mahogany
                    cabinet that once belonged to Liszt. The Library has not only rare old volumes
                    but an endless number of priceless works of art. The dining room has a wonderful
                    chandelier and antique china. In the bedrooms on the second floor are found
                    marvelous old four-posters with canopied tops. Here are also fine old mirrors,
                    chests and additional attractive furniture. Everything has an interesting
                    history, many objects having been brought from Europe by Miss Cravens, who has
                    made numerous trips across the Atlantic. She is an antiquarian of excellent
                    taste, and a visit to her home is an education 
                  
                     3 The metamorphosis of
                            "Cravenhurst" into an inn, after it passed into the
                            hands of Mr. and Mrs. LaGrange, brought many changes in the furnishings
                            of the rooms and also many rooms were put to new uses. The first room on
                            the left as one enters the front door was once the library. It is now
                            one of a string of dining rooms, where are found old sideboards,
                            cupboards, tables and china, including the famed rosebud china of the
                            LaGrange family. One of the most striking features of the rear dining
                            room is a massive white mahogany sideboard, an inheritance of the
                            Cravens family. It is a marvel of the rococo style with deer,
                            dragons' heads, clusters of grapes—a riot of the
                            artist's imagination—carved all over it in high
                            relief. In the hallway hangs a very large picture, painted by A. Nicolls
                            in Rome in 1854. It seems to be a landscape, but the observer is rather
                            uncertain. It commands respect in America on account of its age. Just
                            below this painting is the LaGrange coat-of-arms, designed in 
                                France
                             in 1626. At the top is a helmet with closed visor,
                            emblematic of distinguished military prowess. Under this there is a
                            crescent and below it a diagonal cross, with the whole encircled by a
                            golden shield. The design is well balanced and distinctive. Mr. LaGrange
                            was descended from a Huguenot family that fled from 
                                France
                             in the seventeenth century to escape religious persecution.
                            For many years Mr. LaGrange was a trustee of 
                                Hanover
                             College. Mrs. LaGrange also comes from a fine family, which
                            was at one time very wealthy.
                  
                     4 This volume, together with the poet's
                            letter to the hostess, was presented by Miss Cravens to Dr. W. D. Gatch,
                            Dean of the Medical School of Indiana University at 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     in itself. It would take a volume to
                    describe accurately the things of interest which her present home holds.5
            
            Near the house of Miss Drusilla Cravens, is a lovely old mansion, now occupied by
                    her brother Senator Joe. There is a triangular lawn from which one gets a
                    splended view of the winding 
                        Ohio
                    . Great pillars support the facade in true southern style. This
                    house was built in 1832 by Shadrack Wilber, one of whose daughters, Mrs. Taylor,
                    widow of Captain Bush-rod Taylor of the 
                        United States
                     Navy, owned and occupied the house until a few years ago.
            This mansion is furnished with the most wonderful antiques with everything
                    arranged in perfect harmony. It is worth traveling far to see. The priceless old
                    mahogany and cherry furniture are a delight to the eye. The wide hall with
                    hospitable settees, the great double rooms on each side and the inevitable broad
                    stairway—these present a picture from a past day, back into which the
                    visitor seems to have stepped. It was Captain Taylor's expectation
                    that, on retiring from the Navy after years of service in foreign ports, he
                    would cast final anchor at Wilber Point, but death claimed him before he was
                    made an admiral. His dream did not come true, but no one who has seen the old
                    place in 
                        Madison
                     can dispute the wisdom of his plan to make it his last harbor.
            There are many fine old homes on 
                        Michigan
                     Hill and others in the little city.6 It is
                    always a matter of astonishment to people from other parts of Indiana to
                    discover that so many fine homes were built in the cities down along the 
                        Ohio
                    , but they are there and many of them were built by pioneers. They
                    show conclusively the presence of a high culture in an early period, and should
                    be a source of pride to the residents of the southern fringe of
                    Indiana—indeed to all Hoosiers.
            
               
                  5 It was Miss Cravens who planned and executed the
                        restoration of the Lanier home, built and owned by her grandfather. James
                        Lanier.
               
                  6 See Julie LeClerc 
                            Knox
                        , "A Quaint, Little, Old Indiana City", in Indiana Magazine of History (June, 1932), XXVXI, 88-95,
                        for a description of the Lanier mansion. Another old residence, popularly
                        called the Vawter House, said to be the oldest mansion. 
                            Jefferson
                         County, is now occupied by Charles Davidson, whose mother was a
                        sister of Drusilla and Joseph M. Cravens. It is a long, low building which
                        is full of interest. The writer in indebted to the following friends for the
                        opportunities to study the homes described in the above article: Ella Porter
                        Griffith and Mrs. W. R. Sulzer of 
                            Madison
                        , and Evelyn Craig and Frances Culberson of 
                            Vevay
                        .
            
         
         
         
            The Henry Bryan Family
            By EMILY KING ANDERSON
            
            Henry Bryan and two sisters, all single, came from 
                        New Castle
                     County, 
                        Delaware
                    , after the Revolutionary War and bought land about three miles
                    southwest of the present town of 
                        Centerville
                    , Indiana, They talked very little about their past. They were
                    wealthy, or had been, in 
                        Delaware
                    , where they were merchants, importing fine dress materials, furs,
                    etc. When they came west they brought great trunks full of fine silks, paisley
                    shawls, and other such luxuries, which were not displayed but kept packed for
                    years. They had been loyal to 
                        England
                    , that is, Tories, while their neighbors on all sides were for
                    independence, but were all on good terms. Henry Bryan's brother, John
                    Bryan, settled in 
                        Beaver County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
            A family by the name of 
                        Crawford
                    , whose head had fought in the Revolutionary War, lived on the farm
                    next to them after they settled in Indiana. Henry Bryan married one of the
                    daughters. He was a well educated man. He surveyed the land for the location of
                    the town of 
                        Centerville
                    . He built a schoolroom on his farm, where his small girls were
                    taught in regular sessions, and he was their teacher. Other children in the
                    neighborhood were invited to attend school free of charge. He continued this
                    school until his girls were ready for the higher grades.
            Eliza Bryan, one of the daughters, lived in 
                        Centerville
                     across from the Methodist Episcopal Church for many years. I have
                    been in her parlor several times; it was furnished with old-fashioned haircloth
                    mahogany chairs and sofa and velvet carpet. She went to 
                        Indianapolis
                     later to live with a sister where she died.
            Martha, another daughter of Henry Bryan, who must have been beautiful when young,
                    married a young lawyer, Jacob B. Julian. They started housekeeping in two rooms
                    in 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, but later returned to 
                        Centerville
                    . Jacob Julian had a taste for landscape gardening and could see
                    possibilities in a vacant lot. He selected a knoll in the west part of 
                        Centerville
                    , built a substantial brick house with a large latticed porch at the
                    back of the kitchen, and laid off winding gravel walks in the large yard, with
                    clusters of shrubbery at the turns. He planted rare bulbs and shrubs, including
                    Jack Parlneyron  roses and many kinds of
                    trees, especially evergreen and fruit trees. The persimmon trees set out by him
                    multiplied into a grove at the west side of the lot.
            This home was sold to Oliver P. Morton, after which Mr. Julian bought the whole
                    block enclosed by what is now Morton Avenue on the west, the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Railroad on the north, First Street on the east, and Plum Street on
                    the south. He made a gravel walk from the house at the east part of the lot to
                    Morton Avenue, with rare rose bushes on each side, and smoke bushes and other
                    shrubs just at the right places. A walk wound down the hill to
                    Paddy's Run. There was a perennial spring at the edge of the branch
                    with stepping stones leading to the circular-cut stone. A group of thick
                    evergreens was planted so as to enclose an oval space, within which was a seat
                    just large enough for two persons. This was called "Lovers
                    Retreat."
            A class of young girls gave a moonlight picnic in the Julian place one beautiful
                    moonlight night. Over one hundred guests were invited, many of them coming from 
                        Richmond
                    . Two young girls served buttermilk from an artistic fountain. I
                    think they called it the 
                        Fountain
                     of Youth. There were long tables in the yard with cake, pie,
                    chicken, and other good things to eat. An orchestra furnished music for dancing.
            Mary, the oldest daughter of Jacob B. and Martha Bryan Julian, married James E.
                    Downey of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . She had been teaching a Sunday School class of young girls and
                    invited them to come and look at the wedding preparations, her dresses,
                    presents, and the tables already set for the feast. She also gave each one a
                    piece of her beautiful wedding dress, which some of them have kept to this day,
                    and a piece of cake to dream over. The Downeys afterwards lived in 
                        Irvington
                     and were the parents of nine children, Julian Bryan Downey being
                    the oldest. A daughter, Rebecca, is the wife of Professor Alfred Holmes White of
                    the University of 
                        Michigan
                    . Rebecca, Julian next younger than Mary, married James L. Mason, a
                    lawyer of 
                        Greenfield
                    . Both these weddings took place in 
                        Centerville
                    .
            Martha, the youngest child, was a beautiful girl, a leader in school and society.
                    She spent a winter in 
                        Washington
                     with her uncle, Congressman George W. Julian, which meant a round
                    of pleasure for her. I attended her wedding in the beautiful new home in 
                        Irvington
                    . She married Edgar A. Brown, an attorney  of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , soon after her family moved from 
                        Centerville
                    . They had two children, a boy, George, now in the real estate
                    business in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and a daughter, Juliet, wife of Dr. Christopher B. Coleman,
                    director of the Indiana Historical Bureau.
            John F. Julian, the oldest child, and only son of Jacob and Martha Julian,
                    practiced law with his father both in 
                        Centerville
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He was named for John Finley, early Indiana poet, author of
                    "The Hoosier's Nest," who resided in 
                        Centerville
                     and was an intimate friend of the family.
         
         
            The John Bryan Family
            By President WILLIAM LOWE BRYAN
            
            Henry Bryan, subject of Mrs. Anderson's sketch, was a brother of my
                    grandfather, John Bryan. They were the sons of my great-grandfather, Henry
                    Bryan, who at the time of the War of the Revolution lived on the Brandywine in
                    Newcastle County, 
                        Delaware
                    , near Chads Ford, which is in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . There is a family tradition that two daughters of Henry Bryan, the
                    elder, were captured by British troops, taken to British headquarters, and then
                    courteously conducted to their father's home. There is another
                    tradition that Washington visited the Bryan home and ate at their table. Some
                    years ago I saw a table which was piously believed to be the Washington table,
                    along with many other beautiful inheritances in mahogany and silver in the home
                    of Miss Walpole, granddaughter of Henry Bryan, the younger. Finally, there is
                    the tradition that Hessian troops invaded the Bryan home, ate whatever could be
                    found, and as a joke which little Henry Bryan could not enjoy but never forgot,
                    carried away his hat.
            My grandfather, John Bryan, born in 1763, spent most of his adult life in
                            
                  Beaver County, Pennsylvania
               , where he had a
                    typically large family. From his children have come very many descendants, of
                    whom many still survive in various parts of the 
                        United States
                     and beyond.
            My father, John Bryan, was born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1811. He became a minister of the United Presbyterian Church. He
                    preached at various places, including 
                        New York
                     City, but principally in eastern 
                        Ohio
                     and in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana. He died in 1887.
            
            I shall record nothing of him here except that from his college days he was foe
                    of slavery and foe of the liquor traffic through years when it was dangerous
                    even in the North to be an open foe of slavery and dangerous even for a minister
                    to be the foe of the liquor traffic.
            When my father was about fifteen he spent considerable time at the home of his
                    uncle, Henry Bryan, in 
                        Centerville
                    , Indiana. He maintained intimate acquaintance with his
                    uncle's family and cherished through life the friendship of his
                    cousins, Eliza and Martha Bryan, who became Mrs. Walpole and Mrs. Julian. They
                    are referred to in Mrs. Anderson's paper.
            My cousin, Reverend Dr. James O. Campbell, has prepared a formidable volume about
                    our Bryan clan. The book includes the names of hundreds of the dead and the
                    living.
            As a final note I may add that I have not found the name Bryan in any Scotch or
                    Scotch-Irish list of names. The name Bryan is found in English records as far
                    back as the thirteenth century and frequently thereafter.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            By CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            In the Centennial Handbook, published in December, 1930, at the
                    end of the alphabetical list of members of the Indiana Historical Society, a
                    table was given of membership by counties. This brought out the fact that
                    membership was not as well distributed geographically as it ought to be. Six
                    counties were without any members. A number of counties had only one member
                    each. 
                        Marion
                     County had approximately two-fifths of the entire membership.
            Since 1930 circumstances have compelled the resignation of a number of members
                    and have prevented the accession of a considerable number of new members. The
                    total enrollment, therefore, has declined nearly one-third and the distribution
                    of members throughout the state is even more uneven than in 1930. The number of
                    important counties and important county seats which are either wholly without
                    representation in the Society or have only one member is a source of regret to
                    the Society and should be a stimulus to at least some people in each of those
                    counties to put their county into a more satisfactory situation.
            The Indiana Magazine of History is sent to every member of the
                    Historical Society. It is hard for the secretary of the Historical Society to
                    think that there is any county in Indiana which can maintain a satisfactory
                    standard of civilization without receiving at least several copies of the Magazine. Requisites for membership consist in a good moral
                    character, interest in Indiana history and the annual two dollar membership
                    dues. There is no initiation fee. Applications for membership will be welcomed
                    by, and should be addressed to, the Secretary, State Library
                    and Historical Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Nominations for membership will also be appreciated.
            Occasionally the Secretary finds people who would like to be
                    members of the Society and who would be valuable additions to it but are waiting
                    to be asked to join, perhaps even hurt at not being asked.
            Let this be a general invitation to all who are interested to join the Society,
                    and to all who are members to extend personal invitations to others to do so.
                    The roll-call by Counties as it stands now is presented below.
            
            
               Distribution of Members of Indiana Historical Society by Counties
               
                  
                            
                                Adams
                            
                        
                  1
               
               
                  
                            
                                Allen
                            
                        
                  10
               
               
                  
                            
                                Bartholomew
                            
                        
                  7
               
               
                  
                            
                                Benton
                            
                        
                  4
               
               
                  
                            
                                Blackford
                            
                        
                  1
               
               
                  
                            
                                Boone
                            
                        
                  2
               
               
                  Brown
                  1
               
               
                  
                            
                                Carroll
                            
                        
                  3
               
               
                  
                            
                                Cass
                            
                        
                  9
               
               
                  
                            
                                Clark
                            
                        
                  2
               
               
                  
                            
                                Clay
                            
                        
                  5
               
               
                  
                            
                                Clinton
                            
                        
                  6
               
               
                  
                            
                                Crawford
                            
                        
                  1
               
               
                  
                            
                                Daviess
                            
                        
                  1
               
               
                  
                            
                                Dearborn
                            
                        
                  4
               
               
                  
                            
                                Decatur
                            
                        
                  1
               
               
                  
                            
                                DeKalb
                            
                        
                  0
               
               
                  
                            
                                Delaware
                            
                        
                  10
               
               
                  
                            
                                Dubois
                            
                        
                  3
               
               
                  
                            
                                Elkhart
                            
                        
                  7
               
               
                  
                            
                                Fayette
                            
                        
                  2
               
               
                  
                            
                                Floyd
                            
                        
                  6
               
               
                  
                            
                                Fountain
                            
                        
                  9
               
               
                  
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                        
                  6
               
               
                  
                            
                                Fulton
                            
                        
                  1
               
               
                  
                            
                                Gibson
                            
                        
                  4
               
               
                  
                            
                                Grant
                            
                        
                  2
               
               
                  
                            
                                Greene
                            
                        
                  1
               
               
                  Hamilton
                  2
               
               
                  
                            
                                Hancock
                            
                        
                  3
               
               
                  
                            
                                Harrison
                            
                        
                  5
               
               
                  
                            
                                Hendricks
                            
                        
                  3
               
               
                  Henry
                  3
               
               
                  
                            
                                Howard
                            
                        
                  2
               
               
                  
                            
                                Huntington
                            
                        
                  3
               
               
                  
                            
                                Jackson
                            
                        
                  3
               
               
                  
                            
                                Jasper
                            
                        
                  4
               
               
                  
                            
                                Jay
                            
                        
                  4
               
               
                  
                            
                                Jefferson
                            
                        
                  5
               
               
                  
                            
                                Jennings
                            
                        
                  1
               
               
                  
                            
                                Johnson
                            
                        
                  7
               
               
                  
                            
                                Knox
                            
                        
                  14
               
               
                  
                            
                                Kosciusko
                            
                        
                  2
               
               
                  LaGrange
                  0
               
               
                  
                            
                                Lake
                            
                        
                  7
               
               
                  LaPorte
                  12
               
               
                  Lawrence
                  6
               
               
                  
                            
                                Madison
                            
                        
                  5
               
               
                  
                            
                                Marion
                            
                        
                  302
               
               
                  
                            
                                Marshall
                            
                        
                  1
               
               
                  
                            
                                Martin
                            
                        
                  3
               
               
                  
                            
                                Miami
                            
                        
                  2
               
               
                  
                            
                                Monroe
                            
                        
                  20
               
               
                  
                            
                                Montgomery
                            
                        
                  8
               
               
                  
                            
                                Morgan
                            
                        
                  3
               
               
                  Newton
                  3
               
               
                  
                            
                                Noble
                            
                        
                  4
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  0
               
               
                  
                            
                                Orange
                            
                        
                  4
               
               
                  
                     
                                Owen
                            1
               
               
                  
                            
                                Parke
                            
                        
                  2
               
               
                  
                            
                                Perry
                            
                        
                  1
               
               
                  
                            
                                Pike
                            
                        
                  2
               
               
                  
                            
                                Porter
                            
                        
                  4
               
               
                  
                            
                                Posey
                            
                        
                  4
               
               
                  
                            
                                Pulaski
                            
                        
                  0
               
               
                  
                            
                                Putnam
                            
                        
                  6
               
               
                  
                            
                                Randolph
                            
                        
                  3
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ripley
                            
                        
                  5
               
               
                  
                            
                                Rush
                            
                        
                  4
               
               
                  Saint Joseph
                  28
               
               
                  
                            
                                Scott
                            
                        
                  5
               
               
                  
                            
                                Shelby
                            
                        
                  0
               
               
                  
                            
                                Spencer
                            
                        
                  6
               
               
                  
                            
                                Starke
                            
                        
                  0
               
               
                  
                            
                                Steuben
                            
                        
                  4
               
               
                  
                            
                                Sullivan
                            
                        
                  4
               
               
                  
                            
                                Switzerland
                            
                        
                  6
               
               
               
                  
                            
                                Tippecanoe
                            
                        
                  22
               
               
                  
                            
                                Tipton
                            
                        
                  0
               
               
                  
                            
                                Union
                            
                        
                  0
               
               
                  
                            
                                Vanderburgh
                            
                        
                  10
               
               
                  
                            
                                Vermillion
                            
                        
                  1
               
               
                  
                            
                                Vigo
                            
                        
                  18
               
               
                  
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                        
                  9
               
               
                  
                            
                                Warren
                            
                        
                  0
               
               
                  
                            
                                Warrick
                            
                        
                  3
               
               
                  
                            
                                Washington
                            
                        
                  8
               
               
                  
                            
                                Wayne
                            
                        
                  10
               
               
                  
                            
                                Wells
                            
                        
                  3
               
               
                  
                            
                                White
                            
                        
                  0
               
               
                  
                            
                                Whitley
                            
                        
                  3
               
            
            Out-of-state members, 83.
         
         
         
            Documents
            THE FOURTEENTH INDIANA REGIMENT ON CHEAT MOUNTAIN1
            
            LETTERS TO THE VINCENNES SUN
            
            The Fourteenth Indiana left Camp 
                        Vigo
                     for the front, by way of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , on June 24, 1861. The Seventh Corporal of Company B, J. W.
                    McHenry, wrote to the editor of the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Sun, George E. Greene, under date of June 23, giving a list of
                    the names in this Company which was known as the "Old Post
                    Guards." The Company was recruited at Vincennes and had been sworn in
                    for three years service, at Camp 
                        Vigo
                    , before Corporal McHenry wrote his letter. At the moment Company B
                    included eighty-two privates, the Captain, First Lieutenant, Second Lieutenant,
                    five Sergeants, eight Corporals, a drummer, a fifer, and a wagoner.2 The roll would be slightly altered, wrote McHenry, since
                    Henry Joseph would 
                  
                     1 George E. Greene began his sixth year as editor
                            of the Vincennes Sun with the issue of August 3, 1861.
                            The letter ascribed to Corporal McHenry was signed by the initials
                            "J.W.M.", but among the members of the Old Post Guards
                            as given in the letter only one name, that of the Seventh Corporal, J.
                            W. McHenry, appears with the appropriate initials.
                  
                     2 There were three companies in the fourteenth
                            Indiana regiment besides the Old Post Guards when it left Camp 
                                Vigo
                            . One of the three became known as the Invincibles. The
                            members of the Old Post Guards on June 23, 1861, as furnished to the
                            Vincennes Sun by Corporal McHenry, were: OFFICERS
                            
                        Captain, John D. Wood
                        1st Lieutenant, L. M. Terrell
                        2d Lieutenant, Wm. D. Lewis
                        1st Sergeant, A. J. Trindall
                        2d Sergeant, Jno. M. Denny
                        3d Sergeant, Thomas C. Waters
                        4th Sergeant, Jno. A. Stannia
                        5th Sergeant, D. Rutherford
                        1st Corporal, T. D. Hall
                        2d Corporal, J. E. Hutchins
                        3d Corporal, A. S. Andrews
                        4th Corporal, Chas. Kreggs
                        6th Corporal, Victor Sintz
                        6th Corporal, Sylv'tr Rollins
                        7th Corporal, J. W. McHenry
                        8th Corporal, H. Dougherty
                        Ed. B. Burns, drummer
                        Wm. Donaldson, fifer
                        David Coy, wagoner
                     
                            PRIVATES
                            
                        1 Ackley, William
                        2 Ackley, Thomas
                        3 Ackley, Jasper N.
                        4 Andre, William
                        5 Baird, Thomas B.
                        6 Bonhomme, John
                        7 Barron, Joseph G.
                        8 Berry, William
                        9 Burdolowe, John
                        10 Burdalowe, August
                        11 Bradshaw, Wm. H.
                        12 Brown, Tristram
                        13 Brown, Marion
                        14 Burns, Edward B.
                        16 Carr, F, cho'l artist
                        16 Clark, James
                        17 Companyott, Frank
                        18 Crowder, Benj.
                        19 Curry, John
                        20 Daum, Geo. L.
                        21 Delachemett, Frank
                        22 Dill, John
                        23 Dill, William
                        24 Doneau, James
                        25 Dunham, Nelson
                        26 Dwyer, Mitchel
                        27 Entglemeir, Chris.
                        28 Foreman, James N.
                        29 Gaylord, Harrison
                        30 Gillin, John
                        31 Graham, Robert
                        32 Green, Frank M.
                        33 Green, Thomas
                        34 Hall, George
                        35 Hampton, John C.
                        36 Hill, George
                        37 Hoffman, Wm.
                        38 Holland, Isaac
                        39 Ingersoll, Jeremiah
                        40 Ivins, Soloman
                        41 Joseph, Henry
                        42 Joyce, Mitchell
                        43 Just, Jacob
                        44 Kelly, Bernardo
                        46 Kilgamon, John
                        46 Lee, James
                        47 Lodge, John
                        48 Losha, Frederick
                        49 Montgomery, John
                        50 Nesbitt, Edward
                        51 Osha, Nesbitt, Nathan
                        52 Osha, Peter
                        53 Otis, Martin
                        54 O'Neal, John
                        56 Pfoll, Andrew
                        57 Pryor, George
                        58 Pryor, Tracer
                        59 Quilligan, Samuel
                        60 Racine, John
                        61 Rakar, Chas.
                        62 Reavis, Benoni
                        68 Richardbille, Paul
                        64 Robertson, James
                        66 Saner, Benjamin F.
                        66 Schussie, Conrad
                        67 Schulmier, Conrad
                        68 Sheppard, William
                        69 Shoemaker, Henry
                        70 Soudriette, Frank
                        71 stevens, Patrick J.
                        72 Swonger, John
                        73 Street, William
                        74 Thorn, John
                        75 Touhey, James
                        76 Weidekamp, Henry
                        77 Wilson, John
                        78 Wire, James
                        79 Wood. Frank
                        80 Worley, William A.
                        81 Wilkerson, William
                        82 Young, John
                     
                  
               
                     doubtless go with the hospital department,
                    and J. M. Denny probably be appointed a field sergeant. The letter closed with
                    the statement that a former correspondent of the Sun,
                    "K. M. D.", who was at Camp 
                        Vigo
                     would be "enrolled to go as one of us and in the capacity
                    of secretary,' and "K. M. D." would keep the Sun regularly informed on subjects of interest and as often as
                    possible send "news from the seat of war."
            On July 27 there appeared in the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Sun the first of a series of letters from a correspondent who
                    used the name "Prock." This writer was not a member of Company
                    B (Old Post Guards), but of Company G, another of the companies of the
                    fourteenth Indiana. "Prock" was from 
                        Vincennes
                     and had evidently made arrangements with Editor Greene before his
                    departure to write for the Sun. A natural inference would be
                    that "Prock" was the "whilom correspondent,
                    ‘K. M. D.,’ " that Corporal McHenry mentioned in
                    his letter. This seems not to be true, however, unless "Prock"
                    tried to hide his identity further. As the reader will notice, near the end of
                    the letter of July 25, printed below, "Prock" says:
                    "Nothing from home yet for ‘A. B.’; beats
                    h—11. Excuse the hard word friend G., as even the patience of our
                    Jobs has been exhausted, and I do not claim to be one. My address is Beverly,3
                    
                        Va
                    ., Company ‘G’, 14th Regiment Indiana
                    Volunteers, care of Col. Kimball." It would seem from this complaint
                    that the initials of "Prock" were "A. B.",
                    though possibly, as already hinted, the letters "A.B." were
                    used to cover up the real initials of the correspondent.
            The letters of "Prock" to the Sun ran on to a
                    time far beyond that of the last one here printed. It is probable that the
                    remainder of this correspondence will be published in a future issue. The
                    letters were brought to the attention of the Editor by Mr.
                    Howard R. Burnett of 
                        Vincennes
                    , who prepared the first eight in the series for the printer.
            PROCK'S LETTERS
                    FROM CHEAT MOUNTAIN
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Cheat Mountain Pass, 
                                    Va
                                .,
                           
                                     Wednesday, July 17th, 1861.4
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene:
                         For the first time in five days old Sol shines brightly down
                                    upon us. We began to give up all hope of ever seeing his face
                                        
                              
                                 3 Beverly is in the valley of the
                                            Tygart River which flows northward between Rich Mountain
                                            and Cheat Mountain.
                              
                                 4Printed in 
                                                Vincennes
                                            
                                            Sun, July 27, 1861.
                           
                                     again. Here we are cooped
                                    up in a narrow gorge, three companies of the 14th Indiana, the
                                    whole of the 16th Indiana, and 3d 
                                        Ohio
                                    , a battery of six pounders from Cold Water, Mich,
                                    and a company of German cavalry from 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    .
                        The Pass is about 250 yards wide. Our encampment is situated in
                                    the midst of a strip of pasture land or meadow. A noisy mountain
                                    stream of clear, cold water sparkling in the sunlight, as it
                                    rushes over its bed, supplies us with an abundance of the purest
                                    water—the mountains on either side are full half a
                                    mile high, and covered from foot to crest with the most
                                    luxuriant growth of trees, shrubs, vines and flowers imaginable.
                                    The tall, majestic pine towering far above the more modest, but
                                    none the less beautiful hemlock and juniper, chinkapin-shrubs,
                                    huckleberry bushes, and every variety of the wild mountain
                                    laurel fill up the picture.
                        The nights are very cold and the dews equal to a heavy shower of
                                    rain. Speaking of rain, it falls here every day. The angels in
                                    Heaven seem to be weeping constantly over the unhappy condition
                                    of this once most peaceful and prosperous Republic.
                        Your readers would no doubt be gratified with a description of
                                    the battle of Rich Mountain.5 As our
                                    regiment took no part in it, 'tis impossible for me
                                    to afford them anything like a full account of it.
                                    'Twas fought about 4 P.M., and from appearances, I
                                    should judge pretty hotly contested. Seven pieces of artillery,
                                    one flag, and about $60,000 worth of property,
                                    consisting principally of horses, mules, wagons, provisions and
                                    clothing fell into the hands of the 
                                        United States
                                     forces. One 12 pounder was not discovered till the
                                    day after the fight. The gun carriage having broken, it had been
                                    rolled to the bottom of a deep ravine. Major
                                    Ringgold's name was on it, and the
                                    "Regulars" with us say 'twas one of
                                    the pieces used by the gallant Major at Palo Alto and Rosea De
                                    La Palma [Resaca de la Palma]. The small arms taken were of an
                                    inferior order. Two hundred men laid down their arms on the spot
                                    and 800 more were overtaken, cut off, and captured next day.
                        Owing to every regiment of volunteers being dressed differently,
                                    the 
                                        Ohio
                                     boys fired a volley into the 13th Indiana regiment,
                                    which was coming down the opposite side of the hill at a charge
                                    bayonet, killing and wounding several. Most unfortunate is this
                                    variety of uniforms; 'tis hard to distinguish friend
                                    from foe at 150 yards.
                        As our regiment marched past the battleground next day, no
                                    unexpected sight greeted my eyes. Piles of dead men, and the
                                    ground strewn with the implements of war, pools of blood, trees
                                    stained with it and scarred with bullets.
                        Our troops had no artillery engaged in the fight, it being
                                    impossible to bring the guns to bear on the rebel camp, so the
                                    victory was achieved with small arms alone.
                        
                           One company of the 14th is encamped at Huttonville,
                                        3 miles below [north of] us, and the other six or 8
                                    miles in advance, fortifying Cheat 
                              
                                 5 The Battle of Rich Mountain
                                            occurred on July 12, 1861.
                           
                                     Mountain. In all
                                    probability we shall remain in this mountain gorge for a couple
                                    of weeks—perhaps longer.
                        About 6,000 
                                        Union
                                     troops are encamped at Beverly, some 16 or 18 miles
                                    below [north of] us, where Major-General McClelland has his
                                    headquarters.
                        We fare much better now than when marching, and the boys are all
                                    getting jovial and round-faced once more.
                        Not a word of news from home since we left 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    —nor indeed from any other
                                    place—not even a paper, Madame Rumor is the "news boy" of this camp. Of
                                    course her "extras" are not credited by your
                                    correspondent "or any other man."6 Health of the camp good. A few cases of
                                    "ager" brought all the way from the 
                                        Wabash
                                    . The complaint is one entirely new to the people in
                                    this section.
                        
                                    Truly yours,
                                     PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Cheat Mountain Pass, 
                                    Va
                                ., 
                           
                                    Thursday, July 26th [18?], 1861.7
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene:
                         Far to the West, behind the distant mountain, the bright and
                                    fiery orb of day has long since sank to rest; "Roll
                                    Call" sounded, "taps" beaten off, and
                                    all is quiet in camp, Watchful sentinels, fifty in number, pace
                                    their lonely "beats"—lights and
                                    fires extinguished, with the exception of the "guard
                                    fire, around which, wrapped in their blankets—muskets
                                    loaded and bayonets fixed, placed handy to their grasp, repose
                                    one hundred men—two reliefs" of the
                                    "camp guard," and your correspondent, to keep
                                    awake and while away a lonesome hour, pens this by the light of
                                    its glowing embers.
                        A man can indeed realize that this is a soldier's
                                    life. The long rows of white tents forming the encampment, with
                                    a chain of wagons behind them—the sight of six brass
                                    field-pieces glistening in the light of the silvery moon as she
                                    escapes for a moment behind a flying cloud—stacks of
                                    muskets, whose polished barrels flash as they reflect the guard
                                    fires' uncertain light—and above all, the
                                    solomn stillness that reigns around, where but a few short hours
                                    before all was life and excitement, proves to your humble
                                    servant that he is soldiering—-"divil a
                                    less."
                        The sentries, as the "reliefs" go their rounds,
                                    no longer challenge in the careless, hall-play style of Camp 
                                        Vigo
                                    ; but their voices ring out on the night air with a
                                    "Halt! who comes there!" that, added to the
                                    ominous click of the musket locks, brings a man up "all
                                    standing" with a full consciousness of his dangerous
                                    situation and the necessity of a prompt
                                    answer—-"Sergeant of the Guard."
                                    "Advance, Sergeant of the Guard, and give the counter
                                    sign." The watchful "guardian of the
                                    night" receives it with his bayonet at your breast and
                                    bids you pass on.
                        It required a full hour to relieve fifty sentries of the night
                                    guard, 
                              
                                 6 Very frequently Prock uses the
                                            phrase "or any other man". At the end
                                            of one letter, he quotes from the old church Hymn which
                                            runs "I can not live alway, I ask not to
                                            stay", and thenadds:
                                            "Chorus—'Or any other
                                            man'". There must have been a
                                            popular song of the time which made use of the refrain
                                            "Or any other man".
                              
                                 7
                                            
                                                Vincennes
                                            
                                            Sun, Aug. 3, 1861. The date of this
                                            letter, Thursday, July 26, as printed in the Sun is wrong. If written on Thursday,
                                            it must have been written on July 18, 88 July 26 was
                                            Friday. The letter could not have been written at Cheat
                                            Mountain Pass on July 26, since the move to Cheat
                                            Mountain was made on July 25. A fair guess is that the
                                            letter was written on Tuesday, July 23, since that would
                                            be two days before the move.
                           
                                     and this has to be repeated
                                    six times during the night. Away up in the mountain recesses the
                                    picquet guard in squad of half a dozen keep their "eyes
                                    skinned" the live long night—no
                                    "relief" for them, and a man had better take
                                    his chances in a "forlorn hope" than to pass
                                    these out-posts, as poor Rutherford found to his cost.
                        I understand we march Eastward in a day or two.8
                        
                        The military telegraph is completed from this camp from
                                    Clarksburg, 80 miles.
                        A scout party of the 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     Cavalry Company, composed of eight men, were fired
                                    upon while watering their horses at a creek, some 18 miles
                                    East—one man killed and four wounded, one mortally.
                                    Scouting parties have since then advanced 25 miles without
                                    meeting the enemy.
                        Corporal Wm. Nelson, of Company E, 15th regiment, (son of Turner
                                    Nelson, of Mt. Vernon), last Sunday hoisted his
                                    Company's colors above the top of a tall tree on a
                                    mountain near camp, and the glorious "stars and
                                    stripes" wave proudly in the breeze, visible for miles
                                    around.
                        Our fat and jolly Commissary, Cam. Buntin, wears an
                                    extraordinarily fine hat, and over his shoulder is hung a
                                    splendid steel-clasped haversack, both captured from the
                                    "Seseshs" at Rich Mountain.
                        No letters or papers to hand yet. Well, I hope to get good news
                                    from home before an ounce of lead sends me kiting over Jordon.
                                    So your news-hungry correspondent will keep his temper, bide his
                                    time and wait as patiently as "any other man"
                                    for the glad tidings from Hoosierdom.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                     PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of Occupation Camp, On Cheat Mountain,
                           
                                     July 25, 1861.9
                           
                                
                        [Friend Greene:] 
                        The four companies of the Fourteenth encamped in the
                                    "Pass" struck tents early this morning and
                                    marched up here to Col. Kimball's headquarters to
                                    join the balance of the regiment. The route most of the way lay
                                    through a dense forrest of pine, "tamarack" or
                                    hemlock and cedar almost impenetrable—mountain
                                    springs of cool, clear-as-crystal water gushed forth every few
                                    yards. The ascent was about one foot in ten—so says
                                    my friend Sergeant Bailey.
                        Our camp here is situated on the the Eastern slope of the
                                        mountain,10 amongst piles of huge rocks
                                    and innumerable logs and stumps. The "boys"
                                    that had the honor of preceding us have thrown up a sort of
                                    breast-work of logs and stones on the East of the encampment,
                                    felled the trees and cleared off the underbrush in front so as
                                    to obtain a fair "sight" at the enemy, should
                                    he approach by the road on the side.
                        Cheat river—a noisy, bright, clear
                                    stream—runs at the mountain's base, a mile
                                    from camp.11 Company A of our regiment,
                                    Capt. Foote, is stationed there to guard a bridge.
                        
                           
                              8 The transfer to Cheat Mountain
                                        occurred on July 25.
                           
                              9
                                        
                                            Vincennes
                                        
                                        Sun, Aug. 10, 1861.
                           
                              10 Cheat Mountain is in the present
                                        state of West 
                                            Virginia
                                        . It lies to the east of Rich Mountain and to
                                        the west of the Alleghaney Front. Laurel Hill is farther
                                        north, being a continuation of the ridge of Rich Mountain,
                                        but separated from the latter by the Tygart River. The
                                        streams of this area flow northward, occupying narrow
                                        valleys between parallel ridges. Cheat Mountain has an
                                        elevation of Over 2,700 feet, but the top is a gently
                                        rolling area where today one sees some fine farms.
                           
                              11 The course of Cheat River is
                                        northward along the east side of Cheat Mountain. It flows
                                        into the Monongahela from the right just north of the 
                                            Pennsylvania
                                         line.
                        
                        
                        The Thirteenth Indiana arrived and encamped at the
                                    "Pass" yesterday evening, all in fine health
                                    and spirits. I understand they will move up here to-morrow.
                        Rigby (formerly a painter in 
                                        Vincennes
                                    ) is a Captain in the Seventh Indiana, now at Rich
                                    Mountain Battle Ground.
                        Lieut. Willard, of the 
                                        Evansville
                                     Company (E) Fourteenth Regiment, while on a scout
                                    with fifty men, came upon about an equal number of the
                                    "Sesesh's," and charged them,
                                    killing one or two, and capturing some halfdozen prisoners and
                                    all their camp equippage, including a large lot of maple sugar.
                                    Wish I had been along with the Lieutenant.
                        I have cut a lot of hemlock brush and intend to
                                    "kiver" the rocks up and recline on a somewhat
                                    softer couch than it has been my fortune to "turn
                                    in" to since my advent amongst ye crags and peaks of ye
                                    Old Dominion.
                        Old Post Guards all O.K.—Governor, Tom, and Sergeant
                                    Denny look as good humored as ever, and fat as "any
                                    other man" that enjoys plenty of exercise in the open
                                    air and soldier's grub every day in the week,
                                    including Sunday. Our quarters are next to the O. P. G., and a
                                    hearty exchange of friendly greetings took place immediately
                                    upon our arrival. The boys say "Young Winter"
                                    is at the door here every morning, and overcoats and large fires
                                    are not by any means uncomfortable till Old Sol shows his
                                    familiar, and in these airy regions, most welcome countenance
                                    o'er the mountain tops.
                        Fancy that I failed to head or date my last letter—not
                                    to be wondered at when a man can't procure for love
                                    or money a "drap o' the crather" to
                                    cheer him up even during a night on duty.
                        Nothing from home yet for "A. B.;" beats
                                    h—11. Excuse the hard word, friend G., as even the
                                    patience of our Jobs has been exhausted, and I do not claim to
                                    be one. My address is Beverly, 
                                        Va
                                    . Company "G", 14th Regiment
                                    Indiana Volunteers, care of Col. Kimball.
                        
                                    Ever yours
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of Occupation Camp, On Cheat Mountain,
                           
                                     August 2,1861.12
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene:
                        On Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock, your correspondent,
                                    one of 80 men, 5 of whom were cavalry, all under command of
                                    Capt. John Coons, left camp for a scout. Descending Cheat
                                    Mountain, we crossed Cheat river, and passed the last of our
                                    outposts. An hour's walk brought the command to the
                                    summit of a mountain, four miles from and overlooking the camp.
                                    Here we commenced a descent of sixteen miles. The view to the
                                    Eastward in the direction we were marching was magnificent.
                                    Having "cut loose" from the protection of the
                                    gallant Fourteenth, we proceeded cautiously down the mountain
                                    and through the valley, altogether the most beautiful and
                                    fertile it has yet been my fortune to see in Western 
                                        Virginia
                                    —meadows of luxuriant grass with herds of
                                    fat cattle, quietly grazing along the banks of a stream that
                                    runs the whole length of the valley—substantial farm
                                    houses surrounded by fine orchards, the yards 
                              
                                 12
                                            
                                                Vincennes
                                            
                                            Sun, Aug. 17, 1861.
                           
                                    
                                    filled with poultry, flocks of sheep in the
                                        pastures, on the steep mountain-sides, the tinkling of
                                    the bells being the only sound that disturbed the solomn
                                    stillness which prevailed—the farm houses are
                                    deserted—no sight or sound of human had we during the
                                    night march. Calculating the distance marched at twenty miles,
                                    and judging the enemy's picquets to be not over half
                                    a mile in advance, our Captain at 11 o'clock halted
                                    the command, threw out an advance picquet, and we slept on our
                                    arms. At 4 A.M. we were aroused by the report of fire arms, and
                                    we saw our guards running in and four horsemen galloping away
                                    towards the enemy's camp. This, of course, gave the
                                    alarm; nevertheless, quickly forming, we advanced about 2 1/2
                                    miles, driving in their picquets, who fired upon us at every
                                    turn of the road, and then made tracks at "double
                                    quick." Owing to their being stationed on the mountain
                                    top on either hand, their bullets failed to reach, or whistled
                                    harmlessly over us. Having advanced some 2 1/2 miles inside their picquets and given the enemy a
                                    good scare, we retreated to the foot of the mountain where their
                                    first picquet guards discovered us, and being reinforced by 35
                                    cavalry, we too threw out picquets, and prepared to partake of a
                                    most excellent dinner of veal, new potatoes and honey, at a
                                    vacant house on the bank of a small river.
                        Soon three of our men brought a couple of mounted
                                    "seseshs" into camp as prisoners. At the same
                                    moment a light spring wagon, drawn by two horses, driven by a
                                    "sesesh" bearing a white flag, made its
                                    appearance from towards the rebel camp; it proved to be a
                                    Lieutenant (taken prisoner at the battle of Laurel Hill, just
                                    returning from 
                              Richmond, Va
                           ., where he had been to bury a
                                    comrade killed in the battle), on his way to our headquarters to
                                    again give himself up as a prisoner of war. He reported the
                                    rebels 1,000 strong and formed in line of battle inside of their
                                    entrenchments only three miles in advance up the mountain, and
                                    4,000 encamped eight miles farther on.
                        Capt. Coons immediately sent the officer and two prisoners
                                    forward under a guard of cavalry, and having leisurely disposed
                                    of our "grub" we prepared to return, when the
                                    rebels made their appearance and commenced deploying their
                                    forces to surround us.
                        Three companies of infantry and one of cavalry were all that were
                                    actually seen; but in all probability their whole force was
                                    advancing on us through the thick woods on the mountain sides,
                                    spies having discovered our actual numbers. Just before the
                                    rebels made their appearance in force, our cavalry took a scout
                                    up the mountain road, met and fired upon about an equal number
                                    of the enemy's horsemen, killing one. The fire
                                    was' returned by part of a company of infantry
                                    stationed in the bushes near by, but none of our cavalry were
                                    hit. Being rejoined by them, we marched for camp—our
                                    movements not in the least accellerated by the presence of the
                                    enemy, now having come out in full force and occupying the house
                                    we had a quarter of an hour before evacuated. Their cavalry
                                    flourished their sabres and shook them at us, but
                                    "nary" track did ye
                                    "sesechs" make over the river whilst we
                                    remained in sight—for we waited over an hour for
                                    'em.
                        
                        After an excessively fatiguing march of 20 miles (up hill all the
                                    way remember) we reached camp at 7 P.M., "broke
                                    ranks," "bolted" supper and
                                    "turned in"—your correspondent, for
                                    one, about as near "played out" as he ever was
                                    in his life.
                        Alarm at 12 o'clock! Turned out—formed in
                                    line—a squad of our cavalry sent out as a
                                    reconnoitering party was fired upon by some of our infantry
                                    picquet-guard—one horse killed and the rider slightly
                                    wounded in the ankle. D—n the greenhorn that did it!
                                    He broke my night's rest in two.
                        
                        Never saw it rain harder than it did this morning, from 1 till 8
                                    o'clock.
                        I send this by one of Co. G's boys—Thos.
                                    Bradley, who is going home to-morrow, having been honorably
                                    discharged on account of a diseased leg. We are all sorry to
                                    part with Tom, for he has proved himself one of the
                                    "right stripe."
                        What next? Can't tell—nor can "any
                                    other man."
                        
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of Occupation Camp, On Cheat Mountain,
                           
                                     August 13, 1861.13
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene:
                         The long-looked-for good news from home has during the past week
                                    been pouring into camp. Every day a huge pile of letters and
                                    papers arrives from below. Verily there was great rejoicing the
                                    day the first and most anxiously-expected batch came to hand,
                                    and there has been a small 4th of July excitement every evening
                                    since. Your correspondent returns thanks for the kindness of
                                    many well remembered friends.
                        "Got any tobacco!" "Yes."
                                    "Give us a chaw." "Been grinding this
                                    two days—will divide, though." "No,
                                    thank you; never chew fine-cut."
                        
                        The 14th is short of the weed, consequently
                                    miserable "perishing"—nothing
                                    tastes good to them except at meal times, when
                                    huge piles of well greased slap-jacks are stowed away somewhere
                                    and troubles are for the time forgotten.
                        A scouting party, 150 strong, left camp on Thursday evening
                                    last—part, composed of cavalry and infantry, were
                                    sent back on Friday afternoon with two prisoners calling
                                    themselves Mountain Rangers, a number of rifles, and driving
                                    before them 25 head of fat cattle. When 9 miles from this camp
                                    the cavalry and one infantry soldier (who, some 300 yards in
                                    advance of the rest, were urging forward the bovines) were fired
                                    upon by a party of Mountain Rangers in ambush, and the footman
                                    (William Wilkerson, a private in the Old Post Guards), and two
                                    horseman brought down—the former mortally and the
                                    latter dangerously wounded. One of the cavalry was fired upon
                                    the second time as he lay in the road, the ball piercing his
                                    arm. The ambushed party must have beaten a hasty retreat after
                                    their cowardly and assassin-like deed, for on the news reaching
                                    camp three companies of infantry and the whole cavalry force
                                    turned out, and with our gallant Colonel and Major at their
                                    head, hastened forward to the spot, brought in the poor fellows,
                                        
                              
                                 13
                                            Ibid., Aug. 24, 1861.
                           
                                     their arms, &c.,
                                    and the entire lot of beef cattle, proving that the cowardly
                                    murderers immediately fled.
                        Wilkinson was buried with the honors of war Saturday evening. I
                                    understand he is the only son of a widowed mother residing in 
                                        Crawford
                                     county, 
                                        Illinois
                                    . He formerly lived with William Hodgen, of 
                                        Knox
                                     county.
                        Company "G" was ordered out on twenty-four
                                    hours picket-guard duty, four miles from camp Friday morning.
                                    Off they went, haversacks filled with crackers, one slap-jack
                                    and a cup of coffee constituting all the breakfast the boys
                                    could boast of to make a start on. About noon it began to rain
                                    (and has continued in "draps" without a
                                    moment's cessation up to the hour I am writing.) With
                                    our 
                                        India
                                    -rubber blankets (so-called)
                                    wrapped around us, we kept a bright look-out, munched hard
                                    bread, and fought myriads of gnats till almost dark, when Gen.
                                    Gardner made his most welcome appearance on horseback with a
                                    fresh supply of crackers and some very fat
                                    pickled pork. Soon a fire was kindled and slices hung on ram
                                    rods were spittering in the blaze. Having a touch of the ague,
                                    your correspondent was excused by the Captain and returned to
                                    camp at tattoo. The company remained out till Saturday at 3 P.M.
                                    without capturing a "sesech" or getting sight
                                    at a "bar." The trip, however, gave them all
                                    appetites, such as only soldiers on extra duty experience.
                        The "great uncertainty" here is whether the
                                    Fourteenth Regiment will return to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , be paid off and discharged by the 15th of
                                    September next, or remain in the service for three years. The
                                    question is undergoing discussion constantly all over camp, and
                                    in fact is the all-absorbing topic.
                        Our brave and patriotic German fellow-citizens have it seems
                                    received a back-handed blow from somewhere—a most
                                    outrageous and ungrateful act. Amongst the best soldiers in our
                                    regiment may be found the Germans, and one, the 9th 
                                        Ohio
                                    , which we passed on our march here, (the finest
                                    body of men I have yet seen) was exclusively a German regiment.
                        Thermometer seldom above 75 degrees—black-berries just
                                    beginning to ripen—green corn, tomatoes, watermelons,
                                    &c., an unknown luxury here. Fine place for an observatory, this Cheat Mountain summit.
                        As I write a soldier, busily, engaged in frying the everlasting
                                    slapjack over a smoky fire, sings— 
                                        "Cannot live always,
                                        Wish not to stay."
                                        Chorus—"Or any other
                                            man."
                                    
                        
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of Occupation Camp, On Cheat Mountain,
                           
                                     August 17, 1861.14
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene:
                        Tuesday was the last day of our "spell" of wet
                                    weather. Snow fell, mixed with the rain, and the night following
                                    was most intensely cold, as Lieut. Denny and your correspondent
                                    can testify, 
                              
                                 14
                                            Ibid., Aug. 31, 1861.
                           
                                     being on guard together. We
                                    found it necessary to keep up a roaring fire at the guard-house.
                                    Even then the soldiers shivered and shook like aspens, as with
                                    blankets tightly wrapped, they rallied around the cheerful
                                    blaze. Old Boreas blows "great guns" at sea,
                                    so jack tars say; and once in old Kaintuck his nephew Hurrie
                                    Cane frightened me terribly; but I fancy from the nature of the
                                    country around here and the fair sweep he has at this camp, that
                                    short of 
                                        Greenland
                                    's icy mountains there is no spot in
                                    North America where the old chap blows with ruder breath or cuts
                                    with keener tooth than through the tall pine forests on Cheat
                                    Mountain during the winter months. The breeze he has sent us
                                    this week beats anything the Fourteenth's boys ever
                                    experienced in August.
                        Corporal Wm. H. Jackson's mess have taken timely
                                    warning and built a log shanty covered with bark, stone
                                    fire-place, and bark chimney. A great many huts principally of
                                    stone and on the Esquimaux style, have been erected in the
                                    encampment within a day of two, some of them exhibiting
                                    considerable skill and ingenuity, but none surpassing in comfort
                                    or convenience the log cabin of mess No. 6. There are plenty of
                                    rocks for building purposes, as one cannot see the soil till he
                                    has first turned over a stone.
                        The 24th 
                                        Ohio
                                     U.S. regular infantry came up from the Pass
                                    yesterday, a fine looking body of men, in full rig, army style,
                                    substantially clothed and equipped. They went into camp
                                    immediately below us, their line of sentinels joining ours.
                        The Sutler of the 14th has brought on a supply of the necessaries
                                    of life at last, and a "Wee drop" of the
                                    ardent. I was fortunate enough to obtain a little; tastes natural—don't think that
                                    with the thermometer at freezing almost, a few
                                    "fingers" of Bourbon injure a soldier or
                                    "any other man."
                        A scouting party composed of 24th 
                                        Ohio
                                     and the 14th's boys knocked over a
                                    couple of the Mountain Rangers yesterday, receiving the fire of
                                    their party without injury. The detail from our regiment was
                                    from company E. and under command of Lieut. Willard.
                        We have received letters and papers from the Old Post15 of the 7th of August. A coffee sack full
                                    of mail matter for our regiment came up from below yesterday.
                                    Bully! O, Uncle Samuel! cease not the flow whilst the 14th is
                                    absent from America, exposed to the fatigues, hardships and
                                    dangers of a soldier's life.
                        The article in the SUN of August 3d relating to the shooting of
                                    Nicholas Geise by our Captain is another of the many false
                                    rumors. Nick is fat and hearty—worth 50 dead men; no
                                    better soldier or more willing and trustworthy man in company G.
                        Is the "General" going to marry soon? Heard so.
                                    Look out for the quails, old boy.
                        
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  15
                        
                            Vincennes
                        .
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of Occupation Camp, On Cheat Mountain, 
                           
                                    August 30,1861.16
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene:
                         After enjoying four days of most delightful weather, another
                                    rainy season has set in, a dense fog obscures the sun, and the
                                    driving rain compells such of us as are not on duty to seek the
                                    welcome shelter of our tents. We are getting used to it,
                                    however, as people do who have the "third day
                                    ager" on the River Duschea in Old 
                                        Knox
                                    .
                        Yesterday was a lively day in camp. Early in the morning orders
                                    were issued for an immediate change of quarters. Formerly we
                                    were scattered without much regard to regularity, each company
                                    having on their arrival here pitched their tents wherever they
                                    chose, but now the 14th is encamped in regular
                                    order—every command in its proper
                                    place—all in line. Quite a job it was to accomplish
                                    this according to the Engineer's plan, but all the
                                    digging, ditching, pitching of tents, and paving of streets, (to
                                    say nothing of the hard swearing,) is finished, the
                                    transformation from irregularity to order is complete, and the
                                    boys are as proud of their new quarters as a Miss of 16 is of a
                                    new bonnet. The broad, well bouldered avenue that runs north and
                                    south between the two rows of Co. G's
                                    "dens" has been dubbed Provision Street for
                                    the reason that it runs smack into the Commissary's
                                    Department. Denny, Patterson, and I have our bed filled with a
                                    plentiful supply of fresh "feathers," (the
                                    tips of young pine and cedar tree branches) and sleep as warm
                                    and comfortable thereon as though ensconced (Dutch fashion)
                                    between two feather beds. Our good natured
                                    "Orderly" Van Dyke and Tom Bailey have
                                    captured or won a
                                    "sesech's" tent, and with their new
                                    house, hoop-pole bedstead, and coffee-sack mattress are
                                    "fixed." In some of the
                                    "dens" the boys sleep on bark without barking—colds being unknown here.
                        About 11 o'clock last night the report of a musket was
                                    heard in the direction of our picket-guard and the news was
                                    speedily brought to camp that Paul Truckey, private in Co. G.
                                    had accidentally shot himself. It seems that in drawing his gun
                                    over a log, muzzle foremost, it went off, the ball tearing away
                                    the flesh and completely shattering the large bone of his right
                                    leg just above the ankle joint. Poor fellow! he was taken to the
                                    hospital, and this morning had his limb amputated about half way
                                    between the knee and ankle—is doing very well and
                                    will speedily recover. He took the severe operation very cooly,
                                    cracking jokes at the Surgeon's expense all the time.
                                    It is not a week since one George Betters, of New-burg, Indiana,
                                    a private in Co. E, had the misfortune to have his right hand
                                    blown clean off at the wrist. He was fixing his bayonet on at
                                    the time, the musket slipped, and the lock striking a stone,
                                    caused the piece to discharge.
                        I have just learned that the rebels have burned the bridge over
                                    Green Brier river, some eight miles East of us. This does not
                                    look much like they meditated an attack upon us. During the past
                                    week we have frequently been told that 12,000 were encamped only
                                    fifteen miles distant, and contemplated an immediate attack upon
                                    this point. The forces here are anxious to pay their compliments
                                    to their enemies, and all hope at least, if they do not pray,
                                    that the aforesaid 12,000 will carry out their programme, so far
                                    at least as attacking us is concerned.
                        
                        Several resignations have taken place amongst commissioned
                                    officers, and two members of Company G. Corporal
                                    Sam'l Wallace, of Wheatland, and Thos. Hauck,
                                    (Tomahawk, the boys call him) of 
                                        Terre Haute
                                    , have received their discharge on account of ill
                                    health.
                        T. C. Bailey has been promoted to Sergeant Major, and is
                                    eminently qualified for the office.
                        Cap. Coons, with twenty-two men, myself among the number, were
                                    out on a scout one day last week. Our route lay over a high
                                    mountain, where I do not suppose the foot of man ever trod
                                    before—walked the whole day over fallen trees,
                                    moss-covered rocks and roots, creeping under them clambering
                                    over acres of timber lain prostrate by
                                    tornadoes—forced our way through tangled thickets of
                                    laurel briars and hazel—forded streams, and finally,
                                    about 2 P.M., discovered a narrow path that brought us to a
                                    clearing and house, where your humble servant bought some
                                    cheese, milk and bread, and butter, of a pretty, black-eyed
                                    mountain lassie, the sight of whom refreshed me quite as much as
                                    the (to a soldier) rich repast. Here the drizzle that had been
                                    sifting down on us all day became a heavy rain, and we made
                                    tracks direct for camp (thirteen miles distant) and came
                                    devilish near being fired upon by our pickets just at
                                    dusk—arrived in safety at quarters as tattoo was
                                    beating off—weary, hungry and wet
                                    through—no dry clothes to don;
                                    "dry" enough in all conscience inside.
                        
                        Saturday night last, after disposing of supper, invested a
                                    "check" at the Sutler's for a
                                    cigar, and took a stroll above our camp to the
                                    "peak," where seated on a huge pine stump, I
                                    thought of you, friend G, and other friends in the Old Post, and
                                    wished all here to enjoy with he the splendid sight—a
                                    full moon rise in the mountains—far surpassing in
                                    beauty anything of the kind I had ever witnessed before, and it
                                    has been my fortune from many a height to see fair Luna cast her
                                    silver light o'er hill and dale. Oh, that I could
                                    wield for five minutes only the poetic pen of Prentice, that I
                                    might describe the to my poor pen indescribable scene. Those
                                    touchingly beautiful lines written by Longfellow, "or
                                    any other man," are forcibly from
                                    memory's profoundest depths— 
                                        "He seized his grand-mother,
                                        And threw her up into the sky at midnight;
                                        Right against the moon he threw her, 
                                        'Tis her shadow you see
                                            there!"
                                    
                        
                        Whereupon Grandjibbewarra Nesicoloola, the Deputy Sheriff of the
                                    tribe, (perfect grizzly no doubt) was on the track of the
                                    villain at last accounts. Selah!
                        
                                    Ever yours,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of Occupation Camp, On Cheat Mountain,
                           
                                    September 3,1861.17
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene:
                        By our Orderly's "time book," that
                                    never, failing Company regulator, 'tis Holy Sabbath
                                    day. Nothing else could convince 
                              
                                 16
                                            
                                                Vincennes
                                            
                                            Sun, Sept. 7. 1861.
                              
                                 17
                                            Ibid., Sept. 14, 1861.
                           
                                     me of the
                                    fact—100 men are engaged in fortifying our position
                                    and at least 100 more in levelling the timber in all directions
                                    around camp—mingled with the constant strokes of the
                                    axe, comes the crash and roar, as some towering pine, mighty
                                    monarch of the forest, is laid low; shovels and picks clash in
                                    the trenches; the ring of our blacksmith's hammer
                                    (the only familiar, home-like sound) is incessant; loud are the
                                    cries of soldiers engaged in hauling timbers, and louder still
                                    their curses as some baulky steed, "dancing"
                                    in the harness, refuses to pull a pound. Even the camp hum, that
                                    almost ceaseless sound that "tapps" alone can
                                    silence, is louder than usual—everybody is wide
                                    awake. Indeed, the bustle and excitement is unusual, and it
                                    seems to your correspondent no more like the Lord's
                                    Day than the Fourth of July.
                        Our muster rolls are being made out and the boys will in all
                                    probability handle some cash soon. I have quite forgotten how a
                                    gold dollar looks and feels; however, I do not remember of their
                                        sticking to my fingers. Come on, dollars!
                                    The Fourteenth is growing devilish tired of paper currency
                                    (Sutler's tickets) and long to hear the jingle of
                                    Uncle Sam's coin in their pockets.
                        Our uniforms are not received yet. Some of Company G's
                                    boys have manufactured coats and pants out of their 
                                        India
                                     rubber and other blankets. As the nights are now
                                    exceedingly cold, I do not see how they manage to keep warm
                                    without "kiver"—find a blanket
                                    indispensable.
                        I trust we will receive "marching orders" soon,
                                    as I should not fancy spending the winter in this region,
                                    encamped on a mountain top at that; but if I am compelled to, why I presume I can endure it as well as
                                    any other soldier in the regiment, "or any other
                                    man," ("or man's man," vide Levi).
                        About 50 rebels on a scouting edition were fired upon by a party
                                    of 25, composing a picket of the 15th Indiana Regiment, and 10
                                    of the rebels and a captain killed. This occurred on Thursday,
                                    at 2 P.M. Our Col. received the news by telegraph, and Capt.
                                    Coons was immediately dispatched with his company to intercept
                                    the remainder of the "sesesh," who, after
                                    informing the Captain that he was a 
                                        Union
                                     man (caught with out arms they are all 
                                        Union
                                     men) said the party we were in search of were not
                                    on that side of the mountain—had probably
                                    "changed direction." Found such to be the
                                    case, as no sight could we get of 'em, or by sign
                                    perceive they they had been along the path. Returned to camp at
                                    sun-down, with mud beplastered pants and ravenous appetites.
                        Friday night was on camp guard, Lieut, C. C. Miller, Co. E.
                                    acting Officer of the Guard. Although it rained hard for a
                                    couple of hours, we fought shy of the guard tents, (on account
                                    of the "body guards" said to
                                    be quartered therein) preferring wet backs to "grey backs."
                        No Lieutenant more efficient as officer of the guard, and
                                    certainly none more polite and gentlemanly to the
                                    non-commissioned officers and soldiers composing the guard, than
                                    Miller.
                        With the exception of two copies of date 2d and 13th, have
                                    received no SUN'S for August. Vat ish de mather?
                        
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of Occupation Camp, on Cheat Mountain,
                           
                                    Sept. 19,1861.18
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene: 
                        The telegraph has no doubt informed you of a fight on Cheat
                                    Mountain. Well, there was quite a brush with the enemy on
                                    Thursday morning last, and up to yesterday the secesh had their
                                    tents pitched in full view on a high hill about four miles east.
                                    However, they disappeared in the evening, and your correspondent
                                    enjoyed a night's rest in quarters for the first time
                                    in a week. Last Wednesday night, after tattoo, Capt. Coons, with
                                    twenty men from Company G, and forty 
                                        Ohio
                                     boys, started down the mountain, westward, for Gen.
                                    Reynolds' headquarters. On reaching the narrow path
                                    leading across the mountain (the "short cut"
                                    generally taken by infantry) the command halted till day light
                                    (and as it afterwards proved within a couple of hundred yards of
                                    1,500 or 2,000 rebels in ambush) then pushed on for four miles,
                                    when about 7, o'clock A.M., the advance guard (six
                                    men Company G) having entered the woods from a small meadow were
                                    fired upon, and four men wounded, Kline, d'Ewald, and
                                    Dehan, in the thigh, and Mulville through the hand. The
                                    remaining two, William and Amos Edmondson, escaped unhurt, and
                                    retreated to the main body, where the rebels, some 300 or 400
                                    strong, opened fire from the woods upon the entire party. The
                                    fire was promptly returned, and for a few moments the storm of
                                    leaden hail fell thick and fast, and our boys for the first time
                                    heard the whistle of rebel bullets. They retreated to cover in
                                    good order, however, obeying the commands of their officers like
                                    veterans of an hundred battles. No further damage was done by
                                    the rebel fire, and they not pursuing, the command deploying as
                                    skirmishers up the mountain-side, began their march homeward.
                                    When within a few hundred yards of the turn-pike, being some
                                    three and a half miles from our camp the woods were discovered
                                    to be full of rebels, and a running fight was immediately
                                    commenced, our boys giving it to them in true Indian style from
                                    behind rocks and trees, each man fighting on his own hook. This
                                    second skirmish had been going on some fifteen minutes, when all
                                    at once the rebels beat a hasty and precipitate retreat,
                                    throwing away guns, cartridge-boxes, knapsacks, canteens,
                                    haversacks, blankets, overcoats, &c., with which the
                                    mountain was strewn for miles. About 5 P.M. Capt. Coons came
                                    into camp with a part of his command. The four wounded men of
                                    Company G have made their way to camp also, but two of the
                                    Company Adolph Meyer and John Sims, are missing—it is
                                    supposed taken prisoners; two of the 
                                        Ohio
                                     men are also missing—one was killed;
                                    their names I could not learn. The Captain captured two darkies,
                                    who said that the rebel force consisted of 2,000 
                                        Tennessee
                                     troops, armed principally with flint-lock muskets.
                                    Wm. Javens had a bullet shot through the heel of his shoe and a
                                    spent ball struck him on the shoulder. Joseph
                                    Campbell's hat was perforated with a musket ball.
                                    Your correspondent was not
                                    "thar," so can't tell how it
                                    affects a fellow's "pheelinks" to
                                    have a regiment or two of the secesh popping away at him. I may
                                    as well add here that there are twenty-seven wounded men in a
                                    farm-house near where the skirmish came off, all of them secesh,
                                    and our boys must have "rubbed out" a
                                    "right smart 
                              
                                 18
                                            Ibid., Oct. 5, 1861.
                           
                                     chance" of
                                    'em besides; but I must return to camp and begin at
                                    'tother end of the fight.
                        About 7 o'clock Thursday morning news was brought to
                                    Col. Kim-ball that the rebels had captured and overhauled a
                                    couple of our wagons between the picket and camp guard, and
                                    within a quarter of a mile from camp. Company after company flew
                                    to arms and were off at double quick down the pike, the Old Post
                                    Guards in advance under command of Lieutenant Mathew Green.
                                    Pretty soon the mountains echoed and reechoed with volley upon
                                    volley of musketry, and just then the rebels made their
                                    appearence in force on the hill east of us, threatening an
                                    attack from that quarter, The remaining companies were stationed
                                    in all direction around camp, and all of us anticipated a
                                    general fight. There was not a man I know of on the mountain but
                                    wished for 'em to come on. We were resolved on
                                    defending our positions to the very last.
                        About this time news was brought in by some of Capt.
                                    Coons' skirmishers, who had made their way to camp,
                                    that the Captain with about two-thirds of his command had been
                                    surrounded and compelled to surrender. Major Harrow, on
                                    receiving it, procured our company flag and nailed it to the top
                                    of a house in the very centre of camp, and in full view of the
                                    rebels on the hill.
                        The Old Post Guards met the rebels in the road and drove them
                                    back, killing two and wounding others. The
                                    "governor" was in skirmish and says he knows
                                    of two bullets that perforated rebel hide. Two of the Old Post
                                    Guards were wounded—Leonard Daum (slightly in the
                                    arm) and John Killgannon (in the knee). Secesh toggery is
                                    abundant on Cheat Mountain now.
                        The remainder of Company G. under command of Lieut. Wm. N. Denny,
                                    stood 48 hours picket on the outskirts of camp, and on Saturday
                                    at noon started on a long and fatiguing scout of 30 miles over
                                    one of the tallest of the tall mountains in this region, reached
                                    Huttonville at 11 P.M., and next morning returned, escorting the
                                    wagons containing the mail and grub for the 14th regiment.
                        No SUN for me in the bag. Received a letter from
                                    General—is very indignant; has no thought of marrying
                                    in the "day time;" does up just courting
                                    enough to keep his "hand
                                    in;" says 'twas a 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     fabrication, and if he knew the author, would make
                                    him quail.
                        
                        The 
                                        Evansville
                                     Company (E) was surrounded and fired into early on
                                    Thursday morning, while on picket on the hill spoken of, and two
                                    of them killed—1st Lieut. Juno and Private Henry
                                    Wilder. The rest were scattered, and one poor devil was out 5
                                    days, laying hid close to the rebels most of the time: says they
                                    were 
                                        Arkansas
                                     troops. Ten men with a flag of truce went out and
                                    brought in two bodies. The infernal scoundrels, not content with
                                    shooting the poor fellows dead, had mutilated their bodies by
                                    thrusting bayonets into them.
                        No rebels made their appearance when the flag reached the hill. 
                        One of our picket-guard, Templeton, Co. D, was wounded and taken
                                    prisoner by the rebels. The wound was a slight one, but his
                                    captors bayonetted him through the head and left him laying in
                                    the road.
                        
                        We are all excitement in camp still, and guard duty is heavy. Our
                                    Company was sent out for 24 hours picket yesterday noon. Your
                                    correspondent being on camp guard duty, missed a
                                    "heavy" night.
                        Our boys came in but a few moments ago wet through, chilled,
                                    weary, and hungry.
                        Lieut. Denny came near having his right hand blown off by the
                                    accidental discharge of his Enfield rifle. As it is, he escaped
                                    with a slight bruise and bad powder burn of second and third
                                    finger.
                        Our clothes are said to be at General Reynolds' camp,
                                    and coming up soon. We need them very much—numbers
                                    are suffering for the want of sufficient covering to hide their
                                    nakedness.
                        Dr. Clippenger has arrived—is our Regimental Surgeon.
                        Sergeant Thomas Hall, Old Post Guards, chopped off about one-half
                                    of the first fingers of his right hand only a few moments ago.
                        Twelve of Company G on the sick list this morning—some
                                    of the companies double this number.
                        Am writing in our Lieutenant's tent wrapped in a
                                    blanket, fingers so numb can hardly hold the pencil.
                        Sergeant-Major T. C. Bailey just popped in "done
                                    up" in a secesh overcoat.
                        We are trying to make the arrangements for obtaining a very little whisky to "take the
                                    oath" in. Cold as the devil.
                        
                                    I bid you a Jew,
                                     PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of Occupation Camp, on Cheat Mountain,
                           
                                    Sept. 27, 1861.19
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene:
                        Yesterday noon we were ordered to prepare one days'
                                    rations. Cartridge boxes were replenished, "man
                                    killers" put in extra order, and all the necessary
                                    preparations completed for an advance on the enemy (now encamped
                                    on Greenbriar)20 at midnight.
                        Company G, the advance picket, was called in, two companies of
                                    the Thirty-second 
                                        Ohio
                                     occupying the position. The order to march was
                                    countermanded at 6 o'clock P.M., and immediately
                                    there-after a severe storm of wind and rain came down upon us
                                    from the East, which has continued with unabated fury up to the
                                    present moment.
                        I understand we are to advance as soon as the weather clears up.
                        The Fourteenth cannot turn out over 600 fighting men.
                        The rules and regulations are so strict that I do not feel at
                                    liberty to state the number of regiments, &c.,
                                    accompanying us.
                        Overcoats for the Thirty-second 
                                        Ohio
                                     came up on Tuesday and were distributed to the
                                    "ragged Fourteenth"—a good joke on
                                    the Thirty-second, which marched up next day and were welcomed
                                    by our boys with their new coats on.
                        
                           
                                        Cincinnati
                                     papers of the 20th received by your correspondent
                                    last night; thanks to the "General," we have
                                    something to while a away the 
                              
                                 19
                                            Ibid., Oct. 12, 1861.
                              
                                 20 Greenbrier River, the source of
                                            which is southeast of Cheat Mountain, flows
                                            south-westward along the west side of the Alleghaney
                                            Front. It is a tributary of the New.
                           
                                     long, dreary hours. To-day
                                    are seated in our tents wrapped in "army blue"
                                    without fire.
                        Excuse brevity; will, if not "rubbed out" in
                                    the coming fight, furnish your with full particulars.Aurivor, PROCK.
                        
                        
                           Saturday Morning—Storm still raging.
                                    Eleven horses died on this hill last night.
                        Joseph Howell, one of the firm of Kester & Howell,
                                    Sutlers [of] Fourteenth regiment, was drowned last evening in
                                    crossing a mountain stream on horse-back. Mr. Sparks, their
                                    clerk, had a narrow escape.
                        
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of Occupation Camp, On Cheat Mountain,
                           
                                    Oct. 4, 1861. 21
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene:
                        Thursday noon we were ordered to prepare two days'
                                    rations and hold ourselves in readiness to march at midnight. Up
                                    to 9 o'clock camp fires burned brightly; around them
                                    groups of soldiers gathered singing, laughing,
                                    "speculating" on the coming fight. There was a
                                    constant jingle, jingle of iron ram-rods, snapping of caps, and
                                    sputtering of hot grease in sundry frying pans—notes
                                    of preparation for the morrow; "tattoo" rolled
                                    off at 10 o'clock, one hour' later than
                                    usual, and "taps" at a quarter past, when camp
                                    fires were put out; all lights except in
                                    officers' tents extinguished, and the soldiers
                                    retiring to their quarters and blankets, sought two
                                    hours' repose. At 12 o'clock all were
                                    aroused, the companies forming into their respective quarters,
                                    were visited each in turn by our gallant Colonel, who spoke a
                                    few words of encouragement and bade them all stand by him, and
                                    remember they were from Indiana and belonged to the 14th
                                    regiment; then came the order to form in line, which movement
                                    was promptly executed. Right, face! Forward march! and the 14th
                                    taking the "route steps," moved quickly but
                                    silently down the mountain eastward, past several regiments in
                                    the dense fog, the boys shouting to each other as they filed
                                    rapidly by at Cheat River Bridge; overtook the artillery; passed
                                    it; were soon beyond our picket line, and hurrying up the
                                    opposite mountain, through the dark and silent night, without a
                                    moment's rest till the first faint streaks of light
                                    appeared in the East, when the regiment was halted, and muskets
                                    and rifles loaded; in motion again pretty soon; passed the
                                    ambulances belonging to the 9th Indiana and our own; then
                                    descending the mountain, approached the Greenbriar Bridge, when
                                    the sharp report of half-a-dozen muskets rang out on the still
                                    morning air, immediately followed by a crashing volley; then
                                    pop! pop! pop! and all was silent; on went the 14th, cheering as
                                    they rushed "double quick," over the bridge
                                    and down through the Greenbriar Valley; soon we came in sight of
                                    the 9th Indiana boys, drawn up in line of battle, across a
                                    meadow, their skirmishers hastening down from the surrounding
                                    mountains to join the regiment. The 14th closed in behind, when
                                    the two regiments moved steadily forward till we came in sight
                                    of the enemy's tents, when the advance halted and the
                                    artillery moved to the front, taking up a position on a slight
                                    elevation to the left of the pike. Other regiments now came up,
                                    and the 7th, 9th, and 17th Indiana boys filed across the 
                              
                                 21
                                            
                                                Vincennes
                                            
                                            Sun, Oct. 19, 1861.
                           
                                     valley, and as the right
                                    wing deploying their skirmishers advanced at "double
                                    quick" through the tall grass and bushes skirting the
                                    river and meadows. The 14th now marched forward along the pike
                                    for a few hundred yards, when the companies comprising our left
                                    wing, including Company G, were ordered to deploy and drive the
                                    rebels out of the woods to the left, while the remainder of the
                                    regiment marched along the pike to protect the batteries.
                        Soon we were climbing through the tanglewood and laurel up the
                                    steep mountain sides, when bang! goes a big gun from our battery
                                    of rifled cannon, and whiz! comes a shell over our heads,
                                    falling plump into the enemy's trenches, where it
                                    burst, killing three horses and doing other damage. A roar from
                                    the rebel camp answered, and a round shot whistled through the
                                    air in reply, tearing up the ground in rear of our artillery.
                                    The ball was now opened—roar after in quick
                                    succession from the big guns on both sides—the storm
                                    of shot and shell traversing mid air not more than fifty feet
                                    from our heads, was at once terribly grand and terrific. The
                                    fierce music of "grim war," such as had fallen
                                    upon the ears of but few of our brave fellows, who all
                                    unheeding, cheered lustily and pushed forward rapidly to the
                                    front.
                        The rebel skirmishers, 600 in number, were speedily rousted from
                                    cover, and the musketry now opened along our entire line on the
                                    retreating foe. To your correspondent the rapid "file
                                    firing" of the companies and the rebel shots in reply,
                                    intermingled with the deafening roar of artillery sounded like
                                    10,000 packs of fire-crackers set off at once.
                        Our batteries now took up a position in front, and for three
                                    hours poured shot and shell into the enemy's camp,
                                    doing great execution. He had eleven guns (one and 18-pounder)
                                    and one mortar; seven of these were silenced, when he was
                                    reinforced with both men and guns, and reopened fire again. Our
                                    ammunition for the artillery running short, the guns were
                                    withdrawn, and at 4 o'clock we began our march back
                                    to camp. As we came out of the woods into the open space to form
                                    into line the round shot ploughed up the ground around us. Every
                                    moment bang would go a gun, whiz! boom! and a shell would make
                                    the earth fly, filling the boys' eyes with gravel;
                                    but the brave fellows stood their ground without flinching, as
                                    formed in four ranks without a murmur they cooly awaited the
                                    order to march.
                        The Hoosiers are too much for Secesh—fire too rapidly
                                    and with aim too accurate—nothing in rebel shape can
                                    resist their impetuosity. Silence their batteries, Mr. Big Guns,
                                    and the infantry will soon complete the job.
                        The loss on our side trifling—eleven killed and
                                    fifteen wounded—three of the killed and four of the
                                    wounded belonged to the 14th—none from either of the 
                                        Vincennes
                                     companies. We captured 13 prisoners—our
                                    regiment, 7[,] the Invincibles 5 Bully!
                        A fine drove of beeves were driven off by our boys, and 15 head
                                    of horses.
                        Our brave Colonel Kimball asked permission to storm their works
                                    Gen. Reynolds would not grant the request, remarking that he
                                    merely  came out to
                                    reconnoitre the rebel position and draw him out, which having
                                    been accomplished to his entire satisfaction, he ordered a
                                    retreat.
                        Incidents in my next.
                        
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [On Cheat Mountain], 
                           
                                    Oct. 6, 1861.22
                           
                                
                        
                                    Friend Greene—
                                
                        I promised to furnish you the incidents of our late
                                    "reconnoisance in force."
                        The 9th Indiana, whilst driving in the rebel pickets, shot and
                                    mortally wounded one of their own comrades. Such unfortunate
                                    accidents occur frequently out here. The boys become
                                    scattered—catch a glimpse of some unlucky chap
                                    creeping through the tangled undergrowth, crack! goes a musket
                                    or rifle with aim that seldom fails, and the unfortunate is
                                    stretched out, quivering in the agonies of death.
                        A cannonier belonging to Capt. Daum's Battery was
                                    struck by a round shot on the left arm, just below the shoulder,
                                    almost completely severing the member. The brave fellow took out
                                    his pocket knife, cut off his coat sleeve and the piece of flesh
                                    by which his arm still hung, letting it fall to the ground; then
                                    cooly picking it up, marched off to the rear.
                        Sergeant Price of Company A, 14th Indiana had his thigh shot off
                                    by a rifled cannon ball.
                        Just before we received the order to march, and whilst the 9th,
                                    14th, and 17th Indiana were standing in "four
                                    ranks," a compact mass on the narrow pike observed one
                                    of the 9th, not 20 yards off, sitting down in the act of tieing
                                    his shoe—when whiz! comes a six pound shot and
                                    striking the ground about 4 inches in his rear, turned the
                                    soldier, gun and all a complete summerset; up he jumped, rubbing
                                    the dirt out of his eyes, and snatching up his musket took his
                                    place in the ranks with the remark, "well aimed Mr.
                                    Secesh, but not quite powder enough."
                        In my last forgot to mention that the 32nd 
                                        Ohio
                                     held 3,000 rebels in check, who were attempting to
                                    gain our rear from another camp, and cut off our retreat by
                                    obtaining possession of a rock some 60 feet high, on top of
                                    which is a level space commanding the approach from the eastward
                                    to Green Briar Bridge and capable of holding a regiment, which
                                    deployed could successfully resist an army, for a considerable
                                    time at least. The rebels cannot withstand our infantry and the
                                    gallant 32nd first checked their advance and then dispersed them
                                    entirely, running the secesh through the the woods like
                                    frightened sheep.
                        Jack Frost has paid us several visits, and the delicate touches of his pencil are every where
                                    visible. Dame Nature has donned a robe of varied hue, the deep
                                    green of tall pine and cedar, intermingled with the brilliant
                                    yellow and crimson of maple and mountain ash, presents a scene
                                    at once pleasing and sublime. The surrounding mountains, always
                                    a grand and 
                              
                                 22 This letter being written only
                                            two days later than the preceding was also published in
                                            the Sun of Oct. 19.
                           
                                     imposing sight, are now
                                    picturesque in the extreme.
                        No more paper to scribble on—must say good bye.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army Occupation, Camp at Huttonville, 
                                    Randolph
                                 Co., Western 
                                    Va
                                ., 
                           
                                    Oct. 10.23
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene:
                         On the 8th inst., at noon, the order
                                    came—"11th Regiment strike tents, and
                                    prepare to march immediately." Soon it was known all
                                    over camp that we were bound Westward. Most welcome order, and
                                    obeyed with alacrity, I assure you. By 1 o'clock we
                                    were on the march and at set of sun had left Cheat Mountain, its
                                    chilling winds and everlasting fogs far behind, and were
                                    encamped in a small meadow' on the banks of Tygart
                                    river, within three miles of Huttonville.24
                                    Our wagons failing to "come to time" we built
                                    fires supped on crackers and coffee, and passed the night in the
                                    open air, without other covering than our blankets.
                        At 8 A.M. we forded the river, went into camp on the west side
                                    and within a stone's throw of the so called town of Huttonville.
                        The 9th Indiana occupies our old Camp Ground on the Summit.25
                        
                        The 13th, 15h, and 17th Indiana boys moved down from
                                    "Wagoners Camp" this afternoon, and we
                                    Hoosiers are all together, forming an Indiana Brigade under
                                    command of General Reynolds.
                        Chestnuts and apples, (the latter of a very inferior quality) are
                                    abundant.
                        The weather for two days past has been most
                                    delightful—many degrees warmer here than on the breezy Summit.
                        Do we winter here, or move farther West? Can't answer
                                    that question, nor can "any other man"
                                    hereabouts.
                        We are all in the best of spirits. We would like very much to see
                                    some of our friends though, and much prefer wintering in Indiana
                                    or 
                                        Kentucky
                                     to Western 
                                        Virginia
                                    .
                        
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of Occupation Camp at Huttonsville, 
                                    Randolph
                                 Co., Western 
                                    Va
                                ., 
                           
                                    Oct. 16.26
                           
                                
                        
                                    "The Lord be praised, 
                                    The mountain's raised, 
                                    The world moves round on wheels."
                                    
                                        Emerson (of 
                                                Knox
                                            .)
                                    
                                
                        
                           
                              23
                                        
                                            Vincennes
                                        
                                        Sun, Oct. 26, 1861.
                           
                              24 The march was down the west side of
                                        Cheat Mountain and then southward (up the Tygart River) to
                                        Huttonsville.
                           
                              25 Summit of Cheat Mountain.
                           
                              26
                                        
                                            Vincennes
                                        
                                        Sun, Oct. 26, 1861. Other letters from
                                        Prock appeared in the Sun during the remainder of 1861 and
                                        through 1862. Following the date of Prock's
                                        letter of October 16, the last here reprinted, the
                                        fourteenth regiment remained for a few weeks at
                                        Huttonsville. Then it was sent northward down the Tygart
                                        valley to Philippi located west of Laurel Hill. After a few
                                        weeks at this point the regiment was transferred to Romney, 
                                            Virginia
                                         (now W.
                                            Va
                                        .), in the Appalachian Valley, east of the
                                        Alleghaniea Romney is on the South Branch of Potomac a few
                                        miles south of Cumberland, Id. It was here that the boys of
                                        the fourteenth Indiana spent their first Christmas of the
                                        War. During 1862, this regiment saw much service in the
                                        east. Sometime during 1934, readers may look for another
                                        installment of Prock's letters.
                        
                        
                        
                           Friend Greene:Praises are sung nightly by the
                                    Christian soldiers of our regiment. Were the mountains razed,
                                    'twould be a blessed thing for us poor devils who
                                    have to climb their steep and rugged sides so often. The 14th
                                    boys do not exactly go around on wheels, but they do strut
                                    through camp in their new pants, and under clothes, long legged
                                    socks, and sewed (this time) shoes, pockets full of gold and
                                    silver wheels, fists tightly closed on sundry
                                    $10 bills, the "scrip" of our dear
                                    and much loved Uncle Samuel, their faces beaming with pleasure
                                    and delight; verily this mountain-locked valley of the Tygart
                                    seems a Paradise to us mountaineers, (the 14th is so called by
                                    other Indiana regiments) the broad meadows, hills (that would be
                                    mountains to any other but a "Fourteenth")
                                    covered with green pastures, farm houses nestled in groves of
                                    oak and chestnut, orchards with their golden fruit, the bright
                                    and beautiful river dashing o'er its rocky bed with
                                    ripples flashing in the sunlight or glittering like burnished
                                    blades as the silvery moon peeps o'er the distant
                                    mountain, banks shaded here and there with clumps of the wild
                                    plum, willow, and quaking ash, its course marked by a hedge of
                                    whortle and spice wood bushes, their bright red berries
                                    resembling a doubled string of beads; and, above all, the warm
                                    and genial sunshine, the balmy days of Autumn, seem to make the
                                    soldier's heart glad, and, though some may long to
                                    see the Hoosier Land, the majority are for the time being
                                    content—indeed those who are not should be sent back
                                    to Cheat Mountain Summit, and compelled to stand picket-guard 48
                                    hours without crackers! Here we have no pickets, and camp-guard
                                    is mere pastime while sun and moon so brightly shine.
                                    Discipline, however, is not forgotten by that kind-hearted but
                                    thorough-going soldier, our Colonel, and the following orders
                                    rule and regulate our camp:
                        
                           Reveille—5:30 A.M.
                           Wood and water call—6 A.M.
                           Sick call—6:30 A.M.
                           Breakfast—7 A.M.
                           First Sergeant's call 8 A.M.
                           Guard-mounting—8:30 A.M.
                           Company drill—9 A.M.
                           Re-call—11 A.M.
                           Wood and water call—11:30 A.M.
                           Dinner—12 M.
                           Battalion drill—2 P.M.
                           Re-call—4 P.M.
                           Dress parade (Inspection Arms)—5 P.M.
                           Supper—6 P.M.
                           Tattoo—8:30 P.M.
                           Tapps—9 P.M.
                        
                        Your correspondent is in receipt of a box from the
                                    "Doctor" and "General,"
                                    containing articles worth their weight in gold here. The
                                    "Old 
                                        London
                                     Dock" from you, friend G., and other
                                    fluids disappeared in "double quick," and rest
                                    assured, kind friends at home, you were not forgotten as the
                                    grateful liquor coursed down our thirsty throats and clouds of
                                    smoke were puffed from those "fragrant weeds,"
                                    and swiftly but most 
                                    pleasantly the hours were passed that evening in chatting over
                                    old times.
                        Killgannon, of Co. B, wounded in the knee during our first
                                    skirmish on Cheat Mountain, died and was buried yesterday.
                        No mail since Sunday. The coach came up from Beverly today and
                                    brought all the other regiments' mail, but left ours
                                    at Beverly. May the devil fly away with all the contractors and
                                    P. M.'s! [Post Masters].
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Comment
            There are evidently several purposes that may be subserved by book reviews. The
                    marks of a good history or biography are accuracy, worth-while content, evidence
                    of insight, and readability. A reviewer should evaluate any work of a historical
                    nature in relation to these points. Book reviews in which writers merely exploit
                    their own views, or praise the work of authors of volumes reviewed, or attempt
                    to promote sales, or exercise their talents for clever writing, or indulge in
                    stinging comments are of little value. So many reviews are published that really
                    aid no one desirous of learning the true nature of books before ordering or
                    reading them, that all students or readers of history and biography owe much to
                    the American Historical Review and the 
                  
                            Mississippi
                         Valley Historical Review for the many pages devoted to
                    careful evaluations of historical publications, The responsibility of the
                    editors of these scholarly quarterlies is therefore very great in relation to
                    the selection of reviewers, while that of the reviewers is even greater.
            Those who write reviews of historical books may be roughly
                    divided into two classes—college men who have had training in
                    research and who are more or less specialists in the fields of the works
                    reviewed, and literary men or journalists who are not trained investigators and
                    who do not, as a rule, possess special knowledge of the fields in which the
                    volumes reviewed fall. The most interesting results appear when trained
                    historians review the historical writings of journalists or when journalists
                    review the carefully prepared monographs of historical workers.
            A choice excerpt from a notice written by a university professor about a
                    journalist's work on an American political writer of the times that
                    "tried men's souls" follows: 
                        In the last analysis, the book is a moderately effective piece of
                            propaganda, from the pen of one who has been an able purveyor of that
                            commodity himself, and who, perhaps naturally, uses that medium for
                            expressing his interest in and admiration for an illustrious
                            predecessor.
                    
            
            A literary man of a western mountain state writes with equal skill of a scholarly
                    monograph which recently came from the press of an eastern university: 
                    
                        
                     
                                New York
                             emerges from the welter of colonies and the confusion of
                            the revolutionary war, not as a glorious poem, not as a struggling group
                            of heroic colonists, but as a well dissected frog pinned to a board and
                            properly diagrammed. Historians who object to the inroads of regionalism
                            into history, may be delighted with the deadly mannerisms peculiar to
                            history with which Mr. — makes his sally toward the realm of
                            literature, through the long, flat, dry deserts of academic prose.
                    
            
            The twelfth volume of the Dictionary of American Biography
                    appeared recently. The value of this important work increases as publication
                    progresses. Students of Indiana history will find sketches of many of the
                    leaders who have played parts in the state's history in the volumes
                    that have been brought out to date. The task of selection and rejection is one
                    of magnitude and difficulty, not only in regard to the biographical sketches to
                    be included but also in regard to the authors who are to write them. The job has
                    been so well done that one hesitates to raise any questions. One would,
                    nevertheless, like to know by what process or by whose advice the list of lives
                    to be included or excluded for any state is made out. It would also be
                    interesting to know by what method those in charge of this great undertaking
                    decide on the list of authors. It would seem that the editor and his assistants
                    would need the advice of persons in each state who may be supposed to know
                    something about who is fitted to write this or that biographical sketch.
                    Assuming no knowledge of what is true in regard to other states, it would not be
                    hard to demonstrate that several men in Indiana who could have given material
                    aid to the editors have not been consulted.
            The roll-call by counties of membership in the Indiana Historical Society
                    presented on another page of this issue reveals an interesting situation. It
                    should make good copy for newspapers all over Indiana. One tenth of the counties
                    have no members in the Society. A number of others can boast of but a single
                    member each. Many libraries of the state are subscribers to the Indiana Magazine of History, but it seems that only two of the
                    counties with no members in the Society have library subscriptions to the Magazine. It is true that a good many Indiana newspapers are
                    on the exchange list of the Magazine. In this way, perhaps two
                    or more of the zero counties receive the Magazine. The Indiana
                    Historical Society is  worthy of support,
                    and no county in the state should have fewer than ten members.
            It is almost unthinkable that any library in Indiana should be without the
                    publications of the Society or the Indiana Magazine of
                    History. The sad truth is that a very considerable number of the libraries
                    of the state have no file of the Magazine and are not now
                    subscribers. Nearly all libraries that receive the Magazine
                    are direct subscribers paying $2.00 per year. It should be understood
                    by libraries that institution memberships in the Indiana Historical Society are
                    available to all of them at $3.00 per year. Libraries carrying such
                    memberships will receive the Magazine and in addition the Bulletins and Publications of the Society.
            Contributors to this issue: Elmore Barce is a lawyer of Fowler, Indiana, and a
                    writer in the field of Indiana History who is well known to our readers.
                    Christopher B. Coleman is the Secretary of the Indiana Historical Society. Being
                    a native of 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , he grew up in an
                    environment that caused him to acquire a vivid interest in the "prairie
                    years" of 
                        Lincoln
                    . Leola Hockett is the Secretary of the 
                        Wabash
                     County Historical Society. Martha Alice Tyner is a teacher of
                    history in the 
                        Huntington
                    , Indiana, public schools. Julie LeClerc Knox, a frequent
                    contributor, is a teacher of Latin in the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     High School. She was born and reared at 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana, and has long been interested in the Hoosier towns
                    situated on the 
                        Ohio
                    . Miss Emily King Anderson lives at 
                        Centerville
                    , Indiana. William Lowe Bryan is the President of Indiana
                    University.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indium Magazine of
                    History may be obtained by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be
                    furnished on request and an order placed for as many reprints of any article as
                    may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are
                    desired is published.
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications
                    listed below. The Library of Indiana University and other libraries fn different
                    parts of the country are in need of copies of the issues mentioned in order to
                    complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above the regular rates will
                    be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications may write to the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more
                    copies of the following numbers: 
                  
                     ∗Volume I, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1905).
                  Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
                  Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907)
                  Volume IV, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1908).
                  Volume V, 2, 3, 4 (June, Sept., Dec., 1909).
                  Volume VI, 1, 3, 4 (March, Sept., Dec., 1910).
                  Volume VII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1911).
                  
                     ∗Volume VIII, 1, 2, 4 (March, June,
                            Dec., 1912).
                  Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
                  
                     ∗Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
                  
                     ∗Volume XVII, 4 (Dec. 1921).
                  Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
                  Volume XXII, 1 (March, 1926).
               
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries
                    or individuals who may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can
                    be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914
                    to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four dollars per volume. Issues
                    from 1905-1913, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold at one dollar and
                    a half per number.
            
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its
                    files. Anyone having any of these publications will confer a great favor by
                    writing to W. A. Alexander, Librarian of Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
                    The Indiana Alumnus
                    
                  Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
                  Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
               
                
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue. The University also needs the
                    following to fill out the files. 
                  1832-1833. Wanted 3 copies.
                  1833-1834. Wanted 3 copies.
                  1834-1835. Wanted 3 copies.
                  1836-1837. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1837-1838. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1839-1840. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1840-1841. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1843-1844. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1849-1850. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1853-1854. Wanted 2 copies.
               
            
            
               The Indiana School Journal. Wanted Volume XXXVII (1892) and
                    Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               The Mennonite Quarterly Review. Wanted a copy of Vol. I, number
                    1.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
