
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 34, Issue 2, pages 145-258. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:34+issue:2+year:1938&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Indiana's Cultural Heritage*
            
            DANIEL S. ROBINSON
            
            Since your speaker is a philosopher and not an historian let us begin this
                    discussion by establishing an understanding as to the sense in which we are to
                    use the word history, as well as to what may be considered at least one of the
                    most important functions of the study of history. History is not, as some might
                    think, just records and documents that are stored in our libraries, nor relics
                    that are housed in our museums. These are but the materials of history. Here it
                    suits the purpose best to restrict the term history to that in which we are
                    especially interested on this occasion by qualifying it with the word living. What, then, is living history? It is the knowledge or
                    the consciousness which the people of the present generation of a commonwealth
                    have of the total achievements of the generations which preceded them. It begins
                    with an appreciation of the values that have been created and conserved by
                    previous generations, and it reaches its full fruition in an enlightened
                    understanding both of the detailed facts and of the unifying cultural trends
                    which make up the prior stages in the evolution of the societal life in which
                    one shares. History is social or cultural self-consciousness.
            What specific uses does such knowledge have? Doubtless it has a number of
                    practical values in addition to the intrinsic value which it shares with all
                    other kinds of knowledge, but there is a highly paradoxical, specific function
                    of historical studies which I wish especially to stress this evening. As
                    citizens of the commonwealth of Indiana we have been buffeted by the boisterous
                    waves of the tempestuous sea 
                  
                     * This address was delivered before the
                            Society of Indiana Pioneers, at the Annual Dinner, in the Claypool Hotel
                            of 
                                Indianapolis
                             on December 11, 1937. The author is indebted to Professors
                            A. L. Kohlemier and W. O. Lynch for bibliographical aid in the
                            preparation of this address, but they are in no way responsible for the
                            opinions expressed in it.
               
                     of events in the wider ocean of the
                    post-war and depression era of human history until we have become nauseated by
                    the shakings and deafened by the uproar of the mighty tumult. And now that we
                    are in this condition, probably there is nothing that could be more restorative
                    and energy-giving for us than the renewal of our vital connections with those
                    past generations of our own people, who carved this great state out of the
                    wilderness of the Old Northwest Territory, and who established here the
                    institutions from which we have drawn our spiritual nourishment. But the only
                    way we can renew these vital connections is by the study of Indiana history. Let
                    us study this living history of our own people in order that we may strengthen
                    ourselves for the arduous task of transmitting our institutions to the oncoming
                    generation in such an unsullied form that our young people will be as grateful
                    to us as we are to the generations from which we have received these cultural
                    treasures. Let us study our past to gain perspective on the difficult situation
                    with which we are confronted in our efforts to maintain and to enhance
                    Indiana's cultural heritage.
            How, then, shall we renew our vital connections with these past generations of
                    our own people? What are the chief ways of approaching the previous stages in a
                    genuine historical process? Three methods are well known, and each is of such a
                    comparatively simple nature that any intelligent person can employ it to his own
                    profit and to the benefit of the social order. Your Society (of Indiana
                    Pioneers) is doubtless stimulating the use of all three of these methods, and it
                    should continue so to do. Since each of these methods is individually and
                    socially significant the employment of them should never be disparaged by the
                    professional historian, even though he recognizes their inadequacy and the need
                    of supplementing them with a more rigorous scientific method. Let us, then
                    consider briefly each of these three simple methods as they may be applied to
                    the study of Indiana history.
            The genealogical method of studying our history traces the temporal development
                    of a family, by showing how a common parentage branches out through
                    inter-marriages of the children with those of other families, forming what is
                    called a lineage. Much has already been done by individual members of many
                    Indiana families to trace the lines of descent back to pioneer settlers, and
                    then to the progenitors  of these pioneers
                    in southern or eastern states or in foreign lands. Our Hoosier fondness for
                    family reunions is being utilized to encourage genealogical studies of our
                    numerous families. The newspapers of the state have rendered an invaluable
                    service in publishing regular columns of genealogical material. It is of the
                    utmost importance that additional data be gathered before time sweeps us so far
                    beyond the pioneer days that we can no longer obtain the information required
                    for dependable genealogies. The Institute of American Genealogy in 
                        Chicago
                     is a clearing house for such data throughout the middle west, and
                    the volumes of the Compendium of American Genealogy published
                    by this Institute are a storehouse of information about Indiana families. New
                    volumes will be published as soon as the materials can be assembled, and members
                    of your Society would render a great service by sending the facts about their
                    own family history to this Institute.
            The antiquarian method of studying Indiana history is the tracing of the
                    development of a local community from the time of the first white settlements
                    down to the present, or down to the time when it passed out of existence. For
                    unfortunatley modern industrial developments and shifts in population within the
                    state have led to the destruction or to the serious diminishment of many
                    communities which flourished during the early history of the state. The
                    materials collected in connection with the celebration of Indiana's
                    Centennial in 1916 are of almost priceless value in preserving a knowledge of
                    our most interesting communities. The various local centennials, that are being
                    celebrated throughout the state during the period through which we are now
                    living, are especially significant expressions of the antiquarian method of
                    studying history. Bar associations, medical societies, churches, schools,
                    lodges, women's clubs, patriotic societies and other local
                    organizations should be encouraged by your Society to prepare detailed histories
                    of their respective groups in every community or county in the State. Your
                    society should be as active as possible in stimulating the use of this
                    antiquarian method, to the end that the valuable materials which exist in every
                    community may be collected and preserved before they are destroyed by those who
                    do not appreciate their value. Museums should be created in every important
                    center to house antique objects, and all available  documents and manuscripts should be placed in our
                    main libraries.
            The chronological method of studying Indiana history records the significant
                    political and economic events in the order in which they have occurred
                    throughout the development of the state, weaving them together so that they tell
                    the story of what has happened as white settlers pushed back the Indians and
                    finally took complete possession of all their lands, gradually building up a new
                    civilization. This method exaggerates conspicuous events and tends to ignore
                    more obscure tendencies which prove later to be of overwhelming importance.
                    However, the chronological record of what happens is significant, and your own
                    Society, as well as the other Associations affiliated with your organization in
                    promoting this annual conference, deserve great credit for the continuous
                    stimulation which you are giving to this method of keeping a knowledge of our
                    past alive in the present generation.
            Nevertheless, important as are all of these methods and indispensable as are the
                    materials gathered by them, no historian today would regard any one or all of
                    them together as adequate. They merely provide the foundation for the
                    application of the genuinely scientific historical method to the study of
                    Indiana history, and that is the cultural method. It is now generally recognized
                    that the total cultural development of a people is the true subject-matter of
                    history, and that we do not, properly speaking, have the real history of any
                    commonwealth until living individuals become conscious of the ways in which
                    their cultural heritage has been produced and transmitted to them. Edward
                    Eggleston was one of the first Indiana historians to stress this method. To
                    quote Mr. Brook's account of Edward Eggleston, recently published in
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star: "His great ambition was to write a history
                    dealing with life in the 
                        United States
                    , to follow his concept of an ideal history, which was a record of
                    the culture of a people, rather than a record of politics and war."1 This is an especially significant fact in view of the use
                    that has been made of Eggleston's novels to prove that Indiana was
                    culturally backward; a thesis which needs closer examination.
            Are we really guilty of begging the question when we 
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, Dec. 6, 1937.
               
                     assume that Indiana has a cultural
                    heritage? During the first century of her statehood, did she develop a culture
                    of sufficient uniqueness and distinctiveness to have a history? Exactly this has
                    been denied by many writers, some of whom are professional historians, and
                    curiously enough they have used Eggleston's The Hoosier
                        Schoolmaster to support this denial. It has actually been argued that
                    the poor soil and the impoverished immigrants of the southern part of the state,
                    and the wet lands and sparse settlements of the northern sector prevented the
                    development of culture in Indiana, and made this State one of the most backward
                    culturally among all the states of the union. Indiana has been condemned for
                    having produced the freakish Hoosier type of individual, the backwoods greenhorn
                    who is entirely lacking in culture. For more than a hundred years the prevailing
                    opinion of Indiana among the citizens of the older states has been that she was
                    decidedly backward culturally during the whole of the nineteenth century. If
                    this is true such culture as she now possesses has been developed during the
                    last thirty-seven years, and that cannot properly be called a cultural heritage
                    because it is the creation of our own generation.
            Many of you must at one time or another have met persons who had this low idea of
                    your native State. But for the information of those who have not, let me quote
                    two or three passages which are brutally frank expressions of this opinion. In
                    the 
                        Springfield
                    
                    Republican of January 31, 1863, Indiana was referred to as
                    "the meanest [state], after all, in the West, and one of the meanest in
                    the whole free union." And the question was asked: "Why should
                    it have more … ignorance and bad politics than any of its
                    sisters?" This was the answer given: "Perhaps because it was
                    settled, in a greater degree, by poor small whites and the small slaveholders of
                    the South." It is significant that this blast was caused by 
                        Lincoln
                    's appointing a native of Indiana to a lucrative position
                    at 
                        Washington
                    . A letter written by a settler to a relative back East defended
                    Indiana against her reputation of being a benighted region, and "a
                    little backwoods State whose inhabitants are green and outlandish."
                    This discrediting idea of Indiana is presented in the famous book of Baynard
                    Hall entitled, The New Purchase. In an article in the 
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review,
               2 from which the 
                  
                     2 Richard L. Power, "Wet Lands and the
                            Hoosier Stereotype," 
                        Mississippi
                                Valley Historical Review (June, 1935), XXII,
                            33–48.
               
                     quotations above were taken, Dr. Richard L.
                    Power argues that the absence of Yankee and foreign elements and the existence
                    in Indiana of a static society produced a "grotesque Hoosier
                    stereotype," such as is portrayed in our realistic literature. In the
                    face of this widely held belief perhaps it is incumbent upon us to prove that
                    Indiana does have a cultural heritage, and that the cultural method of studying
                    history is applicable to the study of her history.
            If we go back of the so-called Hoosier stereotype to the territorial period of
                    our history, and inquire what the earliest beginnings of our cultural heritage
                    were—and this we are constrained to do when we apply the cultural
                    method to Indiana—we find an entirely different emphasis from that of
                    Dr. Power. Without going into too much detail let me quote the judicious summary
                    of Dr. Beverly W. Bond, Jr., as printed in the same Review.
               3 In his informative article, he writes: 
                        A population had moved in which represented all the important sections of
                            the Atlantic seaboard, as well as the settlements west of the
                            Alleghenies. Mingling together in the Old Northwest these immigrants had
                            founded an essentially American civilization that was a composite of
                            customs and institutions from New 
                                England
                            , from the Middle States, from the South and from the
                            backwaads. … Economically … the Old Northwest had
                            followed the agricultural and industrial example of the Middle States
                            and New 
                                England
                            . Culturally, too, the western settlers had patterned after
                            these same guides, founding schools and universities that were destined
                            to become the nuclei of a notable system of public education. Libraries,
                            the long lists of books for sale, and the local newspapers were further
                            evidence of the finer tastes of these immigrants from diverse sections,
                            and similar ideals were reflected in the popularity of amateur dramatics
                            and in the singing schools. Lastly, a strong religious influence had
                            come into the daily lives of the pioneers as a force for law and
                        order.
                     If so promising a beginning had been made in the territorial days, are
                    we to believe that the influx of southern immigration, in the decades following
                    the admission of the State to the union completely changed the trend?
            Realistic literature, such as is exemplified in Eggleston's The Hoosier Schoolmaster, instead of proving that Indiana had the kind
                    of a culture depicted therein, really proves the opposite. People as culturally
                    backward as are the characters in that book could not have produced such
                    literature. To argue that all of Indiana's culture during the
                    nineteenth 
                  
                     3 Beverly W. Bond, Jr., "Civilization
                            Comes to the Old Northwest," ibid. (June,
                            1932), XIX, 3–29.
               
                     century was like that depicted in such a
                    book is to ignore the author and his purpose in writing the book. Eggleston was
                    a cultured man even though he was largely self-educated. The truth of the matter
                    is that realistic literature is itself a form of cultural self-criticism. There
                    are always two forces at work in every growing culture. One is the
                    backward-pulling force that is a continual drag on progress, and the other is
                    the forward-pushing force that is responsible for all that is genuinely
                    creative. The Hoosier Schoolmaster is the description of the
                    backward-pulling force in Indiana's culture, written by an author who
                    was well aware of the presence of the other force. For Eggleston's own
                    writings are the creative achievements of that forward-pushing force as it
                    expressed itself through him as its instrument. And this is true of all
                    realistic literature. In it a retrogressive tendency in a culture is being
                    exposed by the author who always represents, or imagines that he represents, a
                    superior and progressive tendency. The fact that the author is sometimes
                    self-deceived does not nullify the fact that all such literature can rightly be
                    characterized as cultural self-criticism. And only a highly developed culture
                    can criticise itself, since such a culture is alone capable of producing its own
                    critics.
            The broad extent of Indiana's cultural heritage can perhaps be indicated
                    best by stating and briefly elaborating three different interpretations of what
                    it is. Even though these necessarily overlap, each emphasizes a somewhat
                    different phase or aspect of the cultural development of the commonwealth.
            The biographical interpretation conceives of culture as the possession and the
                    creative achievements of the gifted and cultivated persons who have made their
                    abode in Indiana. The state has had her fair share of this kind of individuals
                    during the span of her existence, as a cursory examination of Who's Who in America and of other directories of men of
                    renown, and, more particularly, of the Dictionary of American
                        Biography, will show. It would take too long even to mention the names
                    of the distinguished men and women who have made significant contributions to
                    our culture. Many of these were native-born citizens, others came here as
                    traders, missionaries, educators, manufacturers, and settlers. We shall never
                    possess an adequate comprehension of our cultural  heritage until authoritative biographies of these
                    gifted persons are readily available. A Dictionary of Indiana
                        Biography would be an extremely useful compilation in the furtherance
                    of this goal. I have read with deep interest and with much profit Mr. Charles N.
                    Thompson's recently published Sons of the Wilderness.
                    It is a model of the biographical studies we need for every man and woman who
                    has made significant contributions to our culture. What Mr. Thompson has done
                    for the two Conner brothers should be done for any other of the pioneers who
                    gave unstintingly of their time and energy to establish civilization in the
                    wilderness to which they came. The documents are available, thanks to the work
                    of salvaging them in which the federal government has been engaged and to the
                    volumes of the Indiana Historical Collection. The time is ripe
                    for such an outpouring of biographies of our leading educated pioneers as will
                    forever silence those who speak or write disparagingly of Indiana's
                    culture during the first century of her existence.
            The institutional interpretation of culture thinks of it as embodied in various
                    organizations and institutions rather than as the possession of gifted
                    individuals. In this sense it is never merely imported from elsewhere, it is
                    perforce indigenous. More important from the standpoint of permanence than the
                    cultured persons who have lived in Indiana are the various organizations and
                    forms in which our growing culture has embodied itself. Many of our existing
                    cultural institutions go back to the very earliest settlements, for, as soon as
                    a community was established, they began to germinate. Churches were organized,
                    schools were started, libraries were assembled, literally, musical and art
                    societies were formed, newspapers were published, in fact all kinds of group
                    cultural activities were begun. Some of the organizations that were originally
                    created have disappeared, but even these have left their influence on our
                    culture. We need adequate histories of literature, of science, of religion, of
                    education, of technology, of law, of music, and of fine art in
                    Indiana—histories which will winnow the wheat from the chaff of our
                    achievements in each of these realms of culture, so that our youths may read the
                    story and learn all that our commonwealth has created in the way of cultural
                    institutions. It will then become abundantly clear that Indiana was not quite as
                    mean a commonwealth as the writer in the 
                        Springfield
                    
                    
                    Republican imagined. Valuable informative articles have been
                    contributed to the Indiana Magazine of History, to the Publications of the Indiana Historical Society, and to other
                    periodical publications, as well as to the feature sections of our metropolitan
                    newspapers, dealing with various aspects of our institutionalized culture. Much
                    more needs to be done to complete this interpretation of Indiana's
                    cultural heritage.
            For example, in the preparation of this address, an interesting discovery was
                    made about the institutional aspect of Indiana's culture. When your
                    speaker served as Chairman of the W. T. Harris Centennial Committee of the
                    Western Division of the American Philosophical Association, he learned that the
                    first school for infants in the 
                        United States
                     was started by a woman who was a primary teacher in the 
                        St. Louis
                     schools, of which Mr. Harris was then superintendent. The success
                    of this school led to the spread of kindergartens throughout the 
                        United States
                    . Referring to these schools, Harper's Encyclopedia of 
                            United States
                         History says that only five kindergarten schools existed
                    in the 
                        United States
                     prior to 1870. Indeed, this system of education was originated by
                    the 
                        German
                     educator F. Froebel in 1837, and such schools were little known in 
                        Germany
                     until after 1849. But in reading about Robert Owen's
                    settlement at 
                        New Harmony
                     one learns that he had infant schools and that his critics dubbed
                    them "infant prisons." His answer to these critics shows how
                    great a man he was and how far he was in advance of his time. He wrote: 
                        Examination will soon prove that all compassion on this head may be
                            spared; unless it be supposed that a quarrelsome, squalid animal, pining
                            in a garret, or fighting in a street, is in a better condition, moral
                            and physical, than when removed to an airy room, and taught at once to
                            play without dispute or selfishness, and to learn all of good that its
                            tender age is capable of. … Can we doubt their being
                            happier—can we doubt their being better under a gentle system
                            of restraint, directed by a person fitted for the employment, and
                            selected because so fitted?4
                  
                     Here is conclusive proof that there were infants schools in 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, in 1825, which was at least thirty-five years earlier
                    than the first kindergarten in 
                        St. Louis
                    .
            
               
                  4 Quoted in the Orbiston Society
                        Record (October 1, 1825), Vol. I, No. 9, p. 72, from Robert
                        Owen's weekly newspaper published at 
                            New Harmony
                        . The Orbiston Society Record is excessively
                        rare, the copy in the Indiana University Library being one of three in the
                        libraries of the entire 
                            United States
                        , according to the Union List.
            
            
            Lastly there is the interpretation of culture in terms of the various cultural
                    groups that have settled in Indiana, the intermarriages among whom has produced
                    the bulk of our present native-born population. Is it really true that we very
                    soon developed a purely static society made up largely of poor white trash and
                    of "hill-billies"? Certainly not. Few of the states of this
                    union have had a more varied collection of pioneers than Indiana. Even before
                    the state was admitted to the union, there were significant groups of French
                    traders in the old French trading posts. Depauw University was founded by a man
                    who came from this stock and so was Notre Dame University. In fact the Roman
                    Catholic Church got its magnificent start in Indiana from the French Jesuit
                    missionaries. Nobody knows how much the original deposit of French blood has
                    meant to the cultural development of Indiana. Moreover it was increased by the
                    settlement of French-speaking Swiss at 
                        Vevay
                    .5 The first schools there and at 
                        Vincennes
                     were conducted in the French language, and the French population
                    was able to control the elections in 
                        Vincennes
                     as late as 1850. Dare we minimize the contributions made to
                    Indiana's cultural heritage by French cultural groups in the face of
                    the fact that an unknown number of her very earliest settlers were
                    French-speaking people?
            Mr. John E. Iglehart of 
                        Evansville
                     wrote a valuable article6 in which he sketched
                    the contributions of the English settlers in Vanderburg County and at 
                        Princeton
                     in 
                        Gibson County
                     to our Indiana culture. In April, 1918, Mr. Morris Birkbeck brought
                    over a ship load of immigrants and with them another ship load of high grade
                    live stock. Other Englishmen followed them. But there were also many other
                    Scotch, Irish, and English settlers besides those in southwestern Indiana. Of
                    course we know more about those in the 
                        Evansville
                     vicinity. For example, Mr. Whitewell, who accompanied Robert Owen
                    to 
                        New Harmony
                    , on returning to 
                        England
                     on special business, in December, 1826, made the following
                    statement: 
                        Five communities were in operation at or near 
                                New Harmony
                             in August last, three of these residing in the town, and
                            forming a kind of federation, and two at the respective distances of
                            half a 
                        
                           5 See Perret Dufour, The
                                        Swiss Settlement of 
                                            Switzerland
                                         County, Indiana (Indiana. Historical Collections, Vol. XIII).
                        
                           6 "The Coming of the English to
                                    Indiana and Their Neighbors," Indiana
                                        Magazine of History (June, 1919), XV,
                                    89–178.
                     
                             mile and one and a half miles,
                            distinct and independent. There is another at twenty-five miles
                            distance, and another formed by an English settler named Hale.7
                  
                     All seven of these English groups came later than those mentioned by
                    Mr. Igleheart. Dare we minimize the contributions of English settlers to
                    Indiana's cultural heritage in the light of these and of other facts?
            The 
                        German
                     Rappites sold 
                        New Harmony
                     to Robert Owen, but some of those who lived outside the colony
                    remained in Vanderburg County, and Dr. William A. Fritsch, of 
                        Evansville
                    , claims that the Germans who immigrated to Southern Indiana were
                    induced to come by letters they received from these original Rappite settlers.
                    Mr. Igleheart implies that the translation of Mr. Birkbeck's books into 
                        German
                     and their wide distribution in 
                        Germany
                     was the cause of many Germans immigrating to this state. Whatever
                    the causes may have been, we know from the census of 1850 that there were 54,426
                    Germans living in Indiana at that time. Many of our best citizens today are
                    direct descendants of these 
                        German
                     immigrants. Dare we minimize the importance of the 
                        German
                     element in our cultural heritage in the light of these statistics
                    from the Census Bureau?8
            
            Undoubtedly the early settlers from the South included many shiftless and
                    downright "onery" people. But it is an insult to the southern
                    immigrants into Indiana to judge all of them by the minority of
                    "onery" ones. An impartial study of this wave of Southern
                    immigration will demonstrate beyond a quibble that there were numbered among
                    these sturdy pioneers representatives of some of the best families of
                            
                  Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, kyu
               , and 
                        Tennessee
                    . But it is fallacious to assume that Indiana was settled
                    exclusively by southerners. Numerous families came from 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and from other eastern states, including the New 
                        England
                     States.9 Mr. Thompson 
                  
                     7
                            Orbiston Society Record, Vol. I, p. 189.
                  
                     8 See William A. Fritsch, 
                        
                                    German
                                 Settlers and 
                                    German
                                 Settlements in Indiana (
                                Evansville
                            , 1915).
                  
                     9 Joseph E. Layton's valuable study
                            entitled, "Sources of Population in Indiana,
                            1816–1850", Bulletin of the Indiana
                                State Library, XI, 1916, No. 3, gives the following statistics
                            on the sources of immigration of settlers here during that period: 
                                Ohio
                             42.3; the South 32.9; 
                                New York
                             and 
                                Pennsylvania
                             12.6; New 
                                England
                             2; and European Countries 5.5. Of course many who came from 
                                Ohio
                             were children of colonists who were originally from New
                                    
                        England, New York
                     , and 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , and a correction which took this into account would raise
                            the New 
                                England
                             percentage considerably.
               
                     says in his Sons of the
                        Wilderness that the southern settlers worried over the number of
                    immigrants who were coming here from New 
                        England
                    , fearing that they would make Indiana into a Yankee commonwealth.
                    In the decades before 1850, Indiana was a part of the real melting-pot of the
                    nation. Adequate histories of the various cultural groups which fused together
                    to create Indiana's cultural heritage would prove this conclusively.
                    Your Society would render a lasting service to the state of Indiana by
                    subsidizing the writing and the publishing of such histories.
            Before he became a national figure, Calvin Coolidge won recognition in his own
                    state by a book, entitled Have Faith in 
                            Massachusetts
                        . This was a collection of public addresses in many of
                    which he appealed to the people of that great commonwealth to have faith enough
                    in their own cultural heritage to work for its preservation. Tonight let us
                    adapt and apply this title to Indiana. In view of the richness of our cultural
                    heritage, of the distinguished men and women of culture who have labored here,
                    of the strong cultural institutions which have developed here, of the varied and
                    interesting cultural groups whose blood has mingled here, let us have faith in
                    Indiana. Members of the Society of Indiana Pioneers, let us rededicate ourselves
                    to the high responsibility of further enriching and of transmitting to a
                    generation properly educated to receive, Indiana's cultural
                heritage.
         
         
         
            "Hoosier Incunabula"
            THE EARLIEST MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS OF INDIANA AUTHORS*
            
            EDGAR F. KISER, M.D.
            It seems strange that in this great commonwealth of ours, famous throughout the
                    broad expanse of the 
                        United States
                     as the home of distinguished literati, there has been such a dearth
                    of medical literature. True, there have been numerous and excellent
                    contributions to current medical journals, but the more operose and laborious
                    undertaking, the writing of books, has evidently not appealed to many of our
                    doctors for medical texts from the pens of Indiana authors are few and far
                    between. It is interesting to note, however, that some of our pioneers in
                    medicine had the temerity to spread the gospel of healing through the medium of
                    the  written word, and it is a description of two of the very earliest
                    of these medical texts—may I call them "Hoosier
                    Incunabula?"—that is the purpose of this article. Neither of
                    the authors would be in the good graces of the council of his local medical
                    society were he to publish today a work "Particularly Adapted to the
                    Use of Heads of Families and Midwives"  and even in that early period both authors excuse
                    their dereliction on the ground of a thinly settled country and a scarcity of
                    physicians. Both works are classical examples of the familiar "family
                    physician."
            The earlier work is entitled The Indian Guide to Health, by Dr.
                    S. H. Selman, and was published in 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana, in 1836.
            Dr. Selman's name does not appear in Kemper's Medical History of Indiana,
               1 nor is he mentioned
                    in Vonnegut's 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Booksellers and Their Literary Back-ground.
               2 Neither is there any record of him in any of the standard histories
                    of Indiana nor in the records of 
                        Bartholomew
                     County on file in the State Library. I had almost despaired of
                    finding anything concerning him when I learned of a notebook left by the late
                    George Pence, one of the pioneers of 
                        Bartholomew
                     County, to his local historical society. From it I quote verbatim,
                    Mr. Pence's reminiscences of Dr. Selman: 
                  
                     
                        Dr. 'Squire H. Selman came from 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , located in 
                                        Columbus
                                     in 183—. Indian doctor, though a white
                                    man. Also Baptist preacher. Extensively patronized as a
                                    physician. Published small duodecimo volume, "The
                                    Indian Doctor" or "Guide to Health"
                                    of which he was the author. Printed by James M'Call at
                                    Herald office and bound in 
                                        Madison
                                    . Book sold at the high price of $1.50.
                                    The book described ordinary diseases of the Western country and
                                    set forth the kind of remedies to be used, and how they should
                                    be administered. He was a good-looking man of reserved and
                                    dignified demeanor and dressed with elegance and taste in the
                                    finest broadcloth. An elegant fob-chain and seal of gold and a
                                    watch of the same material—then very rarely worn in
                                    this section adorned his person. By some mishap he had lost an
                                    eye, but an artificial one filled the vacancy to all appearances
                                    as well as if it had been genuine. He was a man of some culture
                                    but judging from his book knew but little about medicine or
                                    surgery. He prepared his own remedies, having a small copper
                                    still and some retorts for that purpose. He made frequent visits
                                    to the woods, camping out Indian fashion for days at a time,
                                    with a party of helpers, gathering barks, roots, herbs, leaves
                                    and seeds, from which he extracted and compounded his medicines.
                        Fond of pets, he captured wild animals alive on his wood
                                    expeditions and brought back many a young fawn—once a
                                    black cub wolf. These he brought to his residence and soon
                                    domesticated. The wolf ran at large like a dog. In old age,
                                    however, it grew snappish. A pungent paragraph in the Herald
                                    respecting the wolf, gave great offense to the doctor. The
                                    animal, however, was still allowed its freedom 
                              
                                 1 G. W. H. Kemper, Medical History of the State of Indiana (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1911.)
                              
                                 2 Theodore F. Vonnegut, 
                                    
                                                  Indianapolis
                                                 Booksellers and their Literary
                                                Background (
                                                Bloomington
                                            , 1926). Masters thesis, Indiana
                                        University.
                           
                                     and one day being found
                                    "out of bounds" near Haw Creek, by two
                                    youngsters out hunting, it was shot and killed.
                        Such was the doctor's fame and reputation that, though
                                    he charged high fees, he always had plenty of patrons. The
                                    mystery that attached to everything "Indian,"
                                    the doctor's trips and encampments in the woods, his
                                    strange pets, the curious apparatus for extracting medicinal
                                    properties from vegetable substances, his reticence and gravity
                                    of manner, and the marvelous glass eye, doubtless contributed
                                    largely toward securing the extensive and profitable business
                                    with which he was favored.
                        The regular doctors lost no opportunity to deride Doctor
                                    Selman's medical pretentions. He was by no means a
                                    "sure cure" and without doubt shortened the
                                    days of many a poor, confiding patient. I remember one of his
                                    cases in which he was loudly accused of malpractice by the other
                                    doctors who described it about as follows: "William, a
                                    son of Miles Bunnell, the tanner, was climbing a tree one day,
                                    carrying an ax to cut off a crooked limb for a sled runner, and
                                    accidently cut his knee very badly. Selman attended him and the
                                    result was that the boy lost the use of his knee-joint entirely,
                                    but got well with a stiff and very crooked leg; that during the
                                    treatment the doctor applied a poultice or dressing of what he
                                    called `wet fire' which caused such intense pain the
                                    nurse was compelled to remove it; and that in throwing it out of
                                    the house it struck the door-frame and actually scortched it as
                                    with a red-hot iron." Selman died in 1873 or the year
                                    following.
                     
                  
               
            
            My copy of Selman's book is a 16 mo. of two hundred pages, in
                    contemporary calf. The paper is of poor quality, the printing fair, but the
                    capitalization and punctuation would be a nightmare to a modern proof-reader.
                    There is an index of diseases and remedies, not in alphabetical order, which
                    includes herpes, tetter-worm, negro-poison, king's evil,
                    "hooping" cough or chin cough, gravel and stone, and an
                    extended discussion of mid-wifery.
            Perhaps the best conception of the book may be conveyed by quoting a short
                    chapter in full:
                        
                            THE CRAMP COLIC
                     
                        
                        This is a colic that cramps the stomach, and draws the patient sometimes
                            nearly double with violent pains all through the breast, and will roll
                            through the bowels like goose eggs, and sometimes goes off with a lax,
                            or discharge of wind up or down before the patient can get any ease.
                            Parched peas eaten freely have had a happy effect, when other means have
                            failed, a gill of dogwood berries boiled in a quart of water down to
                            half a pint and drank, is wonderful; or boil a large burdoc leaf in a
                            quart of water to a gill and drink; or take and scrape the inside of a
                            pipe, soot water, or weak lye is very good, or take a teaspoonful of
                            pulverized charcoal in a little water and drink this; or take a young
                            shoat and cut it open in haste and obtain the gall and drink it and may
                            probably relieve the patient; or make ginger tea and drink; or take
                            calamus chew and swallow the spittle; or eat ginger root  freely; or combine a small quantity of
                            aloes, asofetida, and rhubarb, put these in spirits and drink as
                            needful; but of all medicines I have ever used is garlic boiled in new
                            milk, this prescription often relieves the quickest of any remedy that
                            has ever been tried. Beware of eating such food as creates wind or is
                            hard of digestion.
                        This disease is very bad, And cramps the patient
                            up; And if a cure cannot be had, You'll soon be drawn
                            enough.
                    
            
            Mr. Pence comments particularly on Dr. Selman's elaborate stills and
                    retorts. Imagine, if you can, the preparation of the following prescription in
                    his primitive laboratory: 
                        To keep down inflammation, you will get one peck of green plantain, the
                            same of liverwort, the same of winter-green, the same of burdock, the
                            same of the blossoms of 
                                Philadelphia
                             fleabane, the same of poke-berries, the same of dogwood
                            berries, you will put these ingredients together in a large kettle or
                            still, boil them in fifteen gallons of water down to three gallons, then
                            strain the liquid from the vegetables, add to the liquid two pounds of
                            Epsomsalts, one pint of the tincture of gumguiacum, one quart of hard
                            cider, half an ounce of the rust of iron, the same of salamoniac, you
                            will now boil this down to one gallon, it is then fit for use; the
                            patient may take from a teaspoon to half a tablespoonful, three times a
                            day, refraining from all strong diet.
                     It is a far cry from such a heterogeneous mess to the "elegant
                    pharmaceuticals" of the present day. This has indeed been a
                    "Century of Progress."
            There is just one note of humor, unconscious of course, in Dr. Selman's
                    book. Interpolated between the section on midwifery and that on therapeutics,
                    and occupying an entire page, is the following evaluation of his students:
                        
                        A LIST OF MY STUDENTS AND THEIR ACQUIREMENTS
                  
                        Thomas Selman, my brother, he was my first Student; he stayed with me
                            three years and made great improvement in my practice.
                        John E. Goodwin, stayed with me one year and made good improvement for
                            the time.
                        Silas D. Readish, he only stayed with me two or three months, he learned
                            nothing.
                        Napolian P. Young, another only studied with me a few weeks, he gained no
                            insight.
                        Samuel P. Langsdon, is the last student that has studied under me, he set
                            in for two years, he has now been with me near eighteen months, his
                            prospects appear very flattering.
                     Would we had the courage of our convictions today as men had a hundred
                    years ago.
            The second work which engages our attention is entitled 
                    A Practical Treatise on Diseases Peculiar to Women and Girls, to
                        which is added an Eclectic System of Midwifery by Buell Eastman, M.D.,
                    published in 
                        Connersville
                     in 1845. When I purchased the book, about five years ago, I had
                    reason to believe that it was the first medical work published in the State of
                    Indiana, and it was three or four months later that Dr. James Stygall called my
                    attention to the Selman volume. Dr. G. W. H. Kemper, in the section on Medical
                    History in Dunn's Indiana and Indianans
               3 shows the title page of the second edition of Eastman's
                    book and says he believes it to be the first medical publication in the
                    state. Of Doctor Eastman, we can learn but little. None of the state or 
                        Fayette
                     County records mention him. Dr. W. N. Wishard has no knowledge of
                    him, nor have any of a number of 
                        Connersville
                     physicians or residents with whom I have spoken. Dr. J. Rilus
                    Eastman is familiar with the name of Buell Eastman, 
                  
                     8 Jacob P. Dunn, Indiana and
                                Indianans (
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), II, 787–859.
               
                     but says that the family genealogy does not
                    include him and Doctor Rilus believes that if there is a relationship, it is
                    very remote. A brief note in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star of March 12, 1919, concerning the copy of the book then
                    in the possession of Dr. Kemper, said that Dr. Eastman came to 
                        Connersville
                     in 1844 and was a resident there for two years. I know of no way to
                    substantiate the statement.
            On the title page of his book, Dr. Eastman identifies himself as a
                    "Senior Member of the Medical Society of 
                        Cincinnati
                    ." I wrote to Dr. Alfred Friedlander of 
                        Cincinnati
                     for such information as he might be able to obtain for me and got
                    the following reply: 
                  
                     
                        I had our secretary go over the old records of the College. I
                                    find that Dr. Eastman was graduated from the Medical College of 
                                        Ohio
                                    —the precursor of the present College of
                                    Medicine, University of Cincincinnati—in 1832. The
                                    Faculty minutes read to the effect that when Mr. Eastman came up
                                    for final oral examination he did not pass. He was given a
                                    second examination shortly thereafter and at this time succeeded
                                    in satisfying the requirements of the examiners, and was
                                    accordingly given his degree in 1832. No further biographical
                                    data are available.
                     
                  
                It is my impression, however, that although Dr. Eastman
                    "flunked his exams," he was a rather scholarly man, as a
                    passage from his book, which I shall presently quote, will attest.
            As to the book, it is a duodecimo of 182 pages bound in hand-marbled boards. The
                    paper, printing and composition are far superior to the Selman work and the
                    pages are little discolored by age or use. Dr. Eastman evidently had faith in
                    his brainchild, as the verso of the title-page carries an advertisement, giving
                    the price of a single copy as $1.50; one hundred copies,
                    $1.25 each; and five hundred copies, $1.00 each. That the
                    work was a success is evidenced by the fact that Dr. Kemper's copy,
                    which is now in the State Library, is the second edition.
            The book is divided into five parts: The first is devoted to Diseases of Women
                    and Girls; the second to Midwifery; the third to "Manual
                    Labor"; the fourth to Diseases of Children; and the last to Medical
                    Properties and Uses of Remedies.
            Chapter One opens with a definition of puberty which is classic: 
                        Puberty is that period of life at which the person assumes its due
                            proportions, and distinguishing beauty of form; the voice becomes more
                                 harmonious; the countenance
                            more animated; and the motions more graceful. The sexual organs, which
                            previously lay in a dormant state, are so far matured as to begin to
                            exercise their functions. The bosom becomes greatly augmented; the
                            breasts are expanded, and the nipple elongated. The womb and cavity of
                            the pelvis are enlarged, and the menses appear. The future vigour of the
                            constitution is greatly improved; and the sexual functions are now
                            capable of full and active exercise and appear to be intimately
                            connected with the spirits, energy and development of many parts of the
                            oeconomy. The other functions undergo equally remarkable modifications,
                            under the new and instinctive impulse which animates every part of
                            animal life. The external senses attain fresh and peculiar activity; the
                            intellectual faculties become greatly developed, while the morals and
                            social manifestations show themselves in that indescribable feeling of
                            interest, and captivating modesty and affection which characterize the
                            female sex. … Her mind is replete with changes; peurile
                            amusements now yield to maturer enjoyments, and rational inquiry;
                            capricious attachments give place to sincere unaffected and permanent
                            friendship; and the best proportions the individual is susceptible of,
                            are now suddenly and successfully developed, in a
                            word, a new creature almost seems to be suddenly formed.
                    
            
            An appreciation of Eastman's intelligent conception of good obseteric
                    practice may be gathered from his statement: "I hope to be credited
                    when I declare, that more mischief is done, more misery and pain occasioned, and
                    more broken and shattered constitutions are produced by the untimely
                    interference of art, by handling and boring, and stretching the parts, than by
                    all other things put together."
            Nor was Dr. Eastman a polypharmacist. His book contains none of the shotgun
                    mixtures which abound in Selman's work. In fact, his Materia Medica might not be a bad guide for a recent graduate. Read
                    what he has to say of opium: 
                        Opium is one of the most valuable articles belonging to the science of
                            medicine. Taken by a healthy person in a moderate dose, it increases the
                            force, fullness, and frequency of the pulse, augments the temperature of
                            the skin, invigorates the muscular system, quickens the senses, animates
                            the spirits, and gives energy to the intellectual faculties. Its
                            operations are extended to all parts of the system. In a short time this
                            excitation subsides, a calmness of the corporeal actions, and a
                            delightful placidity of mind succeed, and the individual, insensible to
                            painful impressions, forgetting all sources of care and anxiety, is
                            conscious of no other feeling than that of a quiet and vague enjoyment.
                            All the secretions, with the exception of that from the skin, are either
                            suspended or diminished, the regular motion of the bowels is arrested,
                            pain and inordinate muscular contraction if present are allayed, and
                            general nervous irritation is composed, if not entirely relieved.
                            … No medicine is so efficient in allaying nervous irritation,
                            relaxing spasms  and quieting
                            irregular muscular movements, as this article. Hence its great
                            importance as a remedy in cramp, spasms, colics, painful mensuration,
                            hysterics, coughs, etc.
                    
            
            And so throughout Buell Eastman's book, every paragraph and every
                    sentence couched in splendid English, we see a keen insight into the principles
                    of medicine and obstetrics, crude as the practice must necessarily have been. It
                    seems a pity that his talents were not turned to a worthier cause than the
                    production of a popular guide to medicine. And yet, who can question his
                    sincerity when, in his introduction he says: "The present work has not
                    been undertaken without due deliberation upon the responsibility attached to
                    such an enterprise."
            I am resaonably certain that these two books, Selman's Indian Guide and Eastman's Treatise are the
                    earliest medical works published in Indiana. However, if any of my readers can
                    direct me to a work of earlier date, the information will be greatly
                        appreciated.4
            
            
               
                  4 I wish to acknowledge my obligation to Miss Esther
                        McNitt of the Indiana State Library, to Mrs. Albert G. Newsom and Mrs.
                        Roseada Pence Pruitt of 
                            Columbus
                        , Indiana, and to Miss Caroline Dunn, Librarian of the 
                            Connersville
                         Library, for their co-operation and help.
            
         
         
         
            David M. Parry*
            
            MILTON RUBINCAM
            
            Thirty years ago one of the Titans of Indiana industry was David Maclean Parry of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Few men in the Hoosier State had risen to such an exalted position
                    in the business world, or had enjoyed more the confidence of the political and
                    financial leaders of the nation. His course in life was steadily upward. The
                    author of a biographical sketch aptly wrote: 
                        The record of Mr. Parry's life shows that from the time he was
                            fifteen years of age his career has been marked by a series of successes
                            —never of a failure. He disclosed from the first,
                            self-reliance—obstacles were overcome as they appeared. His
                            head and his heart and his hands were always in harmonious alliance.
                            Under his masterful mind order and system predominated. … 1
                  
                    
            
            Inasmuch as we are all the products of our ancestors, his success may be ascribed
                    in part to his heredity. Towards the close of the eighteenth century, there
                    lived in 
                        Wales
                     a civil engineer of "uncommon ability" named
                    Henry Parry. This man resolved to try his luck in America. He accordingly
                    settled in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     where he followed his occupation. During the War of 1812 he is said
                    to have served as an artilleryman. Afterwards he became a wheelwright and
                    carpenter and built the first courthouse in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     west of the Alleghany Mountains. According to family records, his
                    wife was Sarah, the youngest daughter of Brigadier-General John Cadwalader, 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Militia, of Revolutionary fame. This union allied him to some of
                    the foremost families of the Keystone State, while his brother-in-law was a
                    British Peer, the second Baron Erskine.
            Twelve children were born to Henry and Sarah Parry. The youngest, Thomas J.
                    Parry, who was born September 24, 1822, became a farmer. He married Lydia, the
                    daughter of David Maclean, who, from 1822 to 1829, was editor and proprietor of
                    The 
                        Pittsburgh
                    
                    Gazette. After the birth of two of their children, Edward R.
                    and David M. (the subject of this sketch), the family of Thomas Parry moved to
                    Indiana 
                  
                     * This article is condensed from the
                            manuscript, "David M. Parry, of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and his Family," by 
                                Milton
                             Eubincam, the original of which has been presented to Mr.
                            Parry's widow, who is still a resident of 
                                Indianapolis
                            . As the writer plans to issue a complete biography of Mr.
                            Parry in the distant future, any additional information relative to him
                            will be highly welcome.
                  
                     1
                            Men of Progress, Indiana, ed. Will Cumback and Jacob
                            B. Maynard (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899), 311–312.
               
                     and settled on a farm near 
                        Laurel
                    , in 
                        Franklin
                     County. He was first a Whig and then a Republican. Of the latter
                    party he was an ardent member. In religious faith he was a Presbyterian. His
                    death occurred on September 21, 1899. The children of Thomas and Lydia Maclean
                    Parry were: Edward R.; David M.; Jennie, who married C. F. Griffith; Thomas H.;
                    and St. Clair. Of these, Edward and David were born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the others in Indiana.
            David Maclean Parry, second son of Thomas, was born at 
                        Ridgeville
                    , near 
                  Pittsburgh,
                            Pennsylvania
               , on
                    March 26, 1852. It was the following year that the family settled in Indiana.
                    Until he was sixteen or seventeen years of age, David lived on his
                    father's farm, attending school in the winter, but also receiving
                    instructions from his mother, who apparently was a woman of fine education and
                    superior intelligence. As he grew older, the boy began to realize that if he
                    were to tie himself to a farm he would get nowhere in life. Therefore, he sought
                    and obtained from his father permission to break loose and strike out for
                    himself. The elder Parry had faith in his son.
            In 1869 he secured his first real job as a clerk in 
                        Laurel
                     at $10.00 a month. For two years he worked in a drygoods
                    store in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Indiana. Afterwards, in rapid succession, he was employed by his
                    brother Edward in 
                        Columbia
                     City, 
                        Iowa
                    , and as bookkeeper for the 
                        New York
                     Paint and Enamel Company of 
                        New York
                     City, which he left to take a position with the wholesale drygoods
                    firm of Oberholser and Keeper. While residing in 
                        New York
                     in the early eighteen-seventies, he was the room-mate of Robert G.
                    Dun, afterwards the founder of the great mercantile house bearing his name. In
                    1873 Parry located in 
                        Connersville
                    , Indiana, where he established a hardware business with his brother
                    Edward on capital furnished by their father.
            He was not entirely devoted to business, however, for on October 13, 1875, in
                            
                  Brooklyn, New York
               , he was married to
                    Cora Harbottle, daughter of Thomas and Cora (McIntosh) Harbottle. The ceremony
                    was performed by Mr Parry's friend, the famous clergyman, Henry Ward
                    Beecher. Of this union were born two daughters: Helen, who married Frank H.
                    Fitzgerald, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; and Cora, who became the wife of 
                        Warren
                     D. Oakes, of the same city.
            
            In 1876 Thomas J. Parry experienced financial reverses which left him bankrupt.
                    David and Edward promptly sold their business and gave the
                    proceeds—$13,000—to their father.
                    "Such acts of filial devotion are more eloquent than words, however
                    fitly spoken, and D. M. Parry when he surrendered all his savings to relieve his
                    father of debt, disclosed the nobility of his nature and designated himself as
                    one who in the lottery of life ought to draw a capital prize."2
            
            From 1876 to 1878 David Parry was a traveling salesman for the Pappenheimer and
                    Ludlow Hardware Company, of 
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               . The next four years he spent as a partner with 
                        Marion
                     Jamison in a hardware firm at 
                        Rushville
                    , Indiana. In 1882 he sold out his share of the business and planned
                    to sell agricultural implements in South America. But in July of that year he
                    suffered a great domestic affliction in the death of his wife at the early age
                    of twenty-four years —an event which completely altered his plans. He
                    now bought the C. Spring Cart Company at 
                        Rushville
                    , and from this humble beginning sprang the great
                    vehicle-manufacturing firm which in the course of a few years was destined to
                    astonish the world with its immensity.
            On October 3, 1885, Mr. Parry took as his second wife Hessie Daisy Maxwell,
                    daughter of John 
                        Milton
                     and Isabella Maxwell, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Mrs. Maxwell was the daughter of William and Isabella (Read)
                    Moffett. The new Mrs. Parry was a well-born as her husband. The Maxwells were of
                    an ancient Scottish house, one branch of which, in the person of Bezaleel
                    Maxwell, the First, emigrated to 
                        Philadelphia
                     about the beginning of the eighteenth century, afterwards removing
                    to Albemarle County, 
                        Virginia
                    . His grandson, Bezaleel III, a veteran of the Revolutionary War,
                    was the founder of the Indiana line. His wife, Margaret, was the granddaughter
                    of the Reverend James Anderson (1678–1740), a famous Presbyterian
                    clergyman, whose wife, Miss Sudt Garland, was descended from the noted Verplanck
                    family of New Amsterdam, now 
                        New York
                    . Of the many children of Bezaleel and Margaret Maxwell, the most
                    noted was Dr. David Hervey Maxwell (1786–1854), who won fame not only
                    as a physician and surgeon, but likewise as a member of the Constitutional
                    Convention of Indiana, and a founder of Indiana University at 
                        Bloomington
                    . John 
                        Milton
                     Maxwell (1825–1912), a son of 
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., 311.
               
                     Edward Russell Maxwell and grandson of
                    Bezaleel III, was for many years engaged in the iron business in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . His wife, Isabella Read Moffett, was descended from the Honorable
                    George Read, of 
                        Delaware
                    , a Signer of the Declaration of Independence and of the
                    Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    . Thus it will be seen that Mrs. Parry's family was not
                    only inextricably associated with the history of the State of Indiana but had
                    contributed towards starting the infant republic on its historic career. She was
                    born on April 22, 1856, and, at more than eighty-one years of age, still lives
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , beloved alike by her family and friends.
            David M. and Hessie Daisy (Maxwell) Parry were the parents of seven children:
                    Lydia Maxwell, who married William Carey Teasdale, Jr., of Saint Louis; Maxwell
                    Oswald, an aviator killed in action in the World War; Addison Julius; Isabella
                    Maxwell; Ruth, the wife of Victor Gorton; Jeanette, who married Emmert Daniels;
                    and David M., Jr.
            In 1886 Addison Byber and J. P. Pratt became interested in Parry's
                    venture. Upon their request he removed to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where, with his brother Thomas, he established The Parry
                    Manufacturing Company of which he became President. He started with only forty
                    men on the payroll, but in a few years his firm was the largest
                    vehicle-manufacturing company of its kind in the world, covering a territory of
                    twenty-two acres and employing 2800 men.
            According to a newspaper article of about 1893, the plant consisted of offices, a
                    store and repository, piano-box buggy department, gear and wheels department,
                    shipping-rooms, spring department, surrey department, wood-working department,
                    spring and road-wagon department, boiler house, iron-working department,
                    trimming department, and road-cart department. The anonymous writer of the
                    article adds: 
                        This bare enumeration of departments and buildings … at least
                            conveys an idea of what is, in its entirety, the largest plant in the
                            world for the manufacture of pleasure vehicles.
                        An inspection of the premises on foot is a good day's work in
                            itself, and such is the multiplicity of departments that the mind
                            becomes somewhat confused, and fails to retain more than an impression
                            that it is something huge.
                        Unlike other establishments there is a plan followed here that consists
                            in duplicate departments, so that you are going into one paint shop, or
                            trim shop, which you regard large enough in all truth, only to stumble
                            across a duplicate of it in another building. This looks like  bad arrangement at first thought,
                            but it is the outcome of wise planning. If fire should consume a third
                            or more of the plant, the following day work could be shipped with the
                            customary regularity, and there would be enough of a completely appointed shop remaining, to continue to turn out
                            in all departments without interruption.
                        I never saw so many wheels and gears under one roof as is contained in
                            the gear and wheel department. Actually the wheels are stored so thick
                            and in such quantity, that it would seem as if they were moving about in
                            a continual stream, propelled by boys. To stand at a given point and
                            observe the movement is to get dizzy. In the gear room
                            the axle arms of thousands sticking up in close array gives one the idea
                            of regiments of soldiers standing at "shoulder arms"
                            with the barrels of the guns alone visible. It's a great sight!
                        I saw what was perhaps the largest trim-shop on earth, but it was not so
                            impressive as the other departments. In one building where stuff is
                            gotten out for bodies and gears you would suppose you were in a
                            wood-working factory, so numerous are the machines.
                        Now, as to work. Of course, when work is built for the million at popular
                            prices, it is hardly expected that the latest refinements in
                            construction will be glaringly conspicuous, but there can be no question
                            that the facilities at hand enable the company to put exceptional
                            wearing value into the work for the price asked. And that is probably
                            the secret of the phenomenal success of the company.
                        The system of work seems to be about perfection. In all the vast place
                            affairs progress without friction or confusion. Nothing short of
                            executive genius could organize such a plant into its present
                            perfection, and it is to President D. M. Parry that the palm of success
                            must be awarded for producing this highly organized plant.3
                  
                    
            
            In 1890 the Parry Company commenced the manufacture of four-wheeled vehicles on a
                    larger scale than ever before. They Company now produced surries, phaetons,
                    piano-box buggies, spring wagons, etc. The foreign trade was
                    stupendous—Parry buggies and carts being shipped to many other
                    countries, as well as to every state in the Union.
            Meanwhile, Mr. Parry was engaged in other activities. He founded and was the
                    President of the Overland Automobile Company, which he later sold to John Willys
                    for $250,000. Becoming interested in the ideas of Henry Ford, he is
                    said to have given that indefatigable manufacturer of
                    "flivvers" his first financial assistance. He also owned an
                    interest in the Claypool Hotel in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            In the political field, D. M. Parry was a very active and enthusiastic adherent
                    of the Republican party. It is believed that he was more fully responsible for
                    the nomination of his friend, General Benjamin Harrison for the presidency of
                    the 
                  
                     3 This anonymous article was clipped from a
                            newspaper of 1893, but unfortunately the date and name of the newspaper
                            cannot be given.
               
                    
                    
                        United States
                     than anyone else. Also he was the one who put forward
                    Vice-President Charles W. Fairbanks, Senator Albert J. Beveridge, and others. He
                    had the opportunity to become Mayor of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Member of Congress from Indiana, to serve as ambassador to several
                    foreign governments, and nominee for Vice-President of the 
                        United States
                    —but declined all these proferred honors.
            In the struggle between capitalism and labor, Mr. Parry was quite naturally an
                    ardent champion of the former. It is not to be inferred that he was radically
                    antagonistic to the laboring classes. On the contrary, the ordinary workmen
                    found him quite sympathetic and sincerely desirous to better labor conditions.
                    But he was warmly opposed to organized labor unions, which he denounced in a
                    speech delivered on August 13, 1903, as decidedly lowering "the tone of
                    American citizenship," consigning `the Declaration of Independence to
                    the scrap pile," making "the people foot their enormous bills
                    for enhanced prices," crushing "liberty and aiming at
                    sovereignty." After 1902 he held the office of President of The
                    National Association of Manufacturers of the 
                        United States
                     of America, and as such, was a vital factor in capitalistic
                    circles. Many industrial leaders combatted labor organizations for their own
                    gain, but such an accusation could not be truthfully hurled at Mr. Parry. As
                    stated by one who knew him: "His high personal character and well-known
                    principles as well as his labors in behalf of the improvements and conditions
                    among the working classes, absolved him from any charge of undue self interest
                    in the position he took, which was for justice to all concerned."
            Neverthless, labor chieftains were so agitated by his outspoken comments at the
                    time that he believed a conspiracy had been formed to kidnap his children and
                    wreak vengance upon him through them. The situation was such that whenever he
                    ventured about the streets of the city he carried an automatic revolver in each
                    coat pocket, and was accompanied by a heavily-armed bodyguard. He was a
                    sharpshooter and feared no man, while his brother Thomas was the crack pistol
                    shot of the National Guard of Indiana. His beautiful mansion in Golden Hill was
                    guarded night and day. Finally, as the danger seemed to increase, he felt
                    compelled to send his family to the city of Stuttgart, 
                        Germany
                    , for safety.
            
               
                  4
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Tribune, Aug. 14, 1903.
            
            
            Similar precautions were taken at the Parry plant. A correspondent of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times wrote: 
                        Barring Parry's general office is a wrought iron fence, the
                            entrance through which is a heavy gate which fastens with a spring lock.
                            Back of the gate is a big, burly "bouncer." A flight
                            of steps leads to Parry's office, and at the head of the steps
                            sits a negro with a 
                                Winchester
                             rifle across his knees. One cannot interview Parry without
                            first stating his business to two persons, and being questioned, scanned
                            and quizzed.
                        And when one is face to face with D. M. Parry! He is short and of slight
                            build. His skin resembles parchment. His face is sphinxlike. He is
                            always faultlessly dressed. He never utters an unnecessary word, except
                            when he launches forth in a tirade against labor unions.5
                  
                    
            
            In October, 1903, Mr. Parry was elected President of the Industrial Association
                    of America, consisting of a federation of employers' associations and
                    citizens' alliances throughout the 
                        United States
                    —intended to resist the demands of organized labor.
                    "Meet organization with organization!" was the motto. In 1904
                    he founded the American Manufacturers' Mutual Life Insurance Company,
                    with headquarters in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , of which he was elected president.
            As a lineal descendant of distinguished colonial and Revolutionary families,
                    David M. Parry was naturally interested in the work done by patriotic
                    organizations to preserve the memory of the achievements of our heroic forebears
                    of a century and a half ago. He was a member of the Indiana Society of the Sons
                    of the Revolution, of which he was elected Vice-President in 1902, and, in
                    1909–1910, President.
            Always an enthusiastic student of sociology, and devoting much thought to the
                    subject, he produced a book in 1905 entitled: The Scarlet
                    Empire—an attack on Socialism in the form of a novel. The theme
                    concerns a young Socialist who plunges into the sea, descends to a lost Atlantis
                        (The Scarlet Empire), a social democracy where people
                    dwell in slavery, the government grudgingly owing every man a living. In time
                    the hero becomes so digusted with Socialistic conditions that he finally makes
                    his escape to the upper world. Critics writing for The Literary
                        Digest and The Outlook, while admitting that the
                    story was entertaining and the plot skilfully constructed, agreed that the book
                    as a whole had little literary merit.
            As the foregoing account has indicated, Mr. Parry was 
                  
                     5 William J. Burns told the story of the reign of
                            terror about the Parry family in his book, The Masked
                            War (
                                New York
                            , 1913).
               
                     very progressive in his ideas. With the
                    introduction of the automobile as a major factor in transportation he did not
                    abandon the construction of carriages and buggies, but expanded his business to
                    include motor-vehicles. He was the founder and President of The Parry Auto
                    Company, of which his sons-in-law, W. C. Teasdale6 and
                    Warran D. Oakes, were Vice-Presidents, and his son, Maxwell O. Parry, was
                    Secretary-Treasurer. The Parry Manufacturing Company had meanwhile passed to the
                    control of his brother, St. Clair Parry, who became President of that concern.
                    In 1909 Mr. Parry became President of the Automobile Insurance Company of
                    America and Vice-President of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Southern Railroad. Many other executive honors were showered upon
                    him at various times. In 1911, after twenty-five years of incessant activity as
                    a manufacturer of vehicles, he retired from active business with the best wishes
                    of his associates.
            But his interest in many current problems did not cease with his withdrawal from
                    the firm. Early in 1913, Mr. Parry and John Kirby, Jr., both of whom were former
                    Presidents of The National Manufacturers' Association, planned to sail
                    for 
                        Australia
                     to study economic conditions. Their program was rudely shattered,
                    however, that very summer, when accusations were hurled at the Association by
                    the American Federation of Labor that back in 1907 they had attempted to bribe
                    Samuel Gompers, President of the American Federation of Labor.
            Their trip was delayed by a Congressional investigation but Messrs. Parry and
                    Kirby resumed their plans the following year, and, accompanied by Dr. Albert A.
                    Snowden, of the Educational Staff of the National Association of Manufacturers,
                    made an exhaustive study of the situation in 
                        New Zealand
                    , Tasmania, and 
                        Australia
                    , and included in their itinerary parts of 
                  China, Japan
               ,
                    and 
                        Korea
                    .
            On the return journey Mr. Parry was suddenly stricken ill aboard the steamer 
                        
                            Korea
                        
                     when only two days out of 
                  
                     6 Mr. Teasdale had an interesting career. Besides
                            being Vice-President of The Parry Auto Company, Vice-President of The
                            Shoe Mart Company, of 
                                St. Louis
                            , and President of The Pathfinder Company, he was a
                            globe-trotter having traveled more than a million and a half miles about
                            in the world. His home was a veritable museum of objects picked up in
                                    
                        India, China, Japan, Korea, Egypt
                     , etc. In ancestry he was not inferior to
                            his wife, for he was a descendant of a long line of eminent Baptist
                            clergymen, and counted among his other forefathers the Honorable John
                            Ogden (1609–1682), Deputy-Governor of East Jersey, and the
                            noted Tuttle family of New Enland and East Jersey, from which descended
                            the illustrious divine, Jonathan Edwards, Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt, Sr.,
                            and others of distinction.
               
                     Honolulu. He arrived in 
                        San Francisco
                     on August 21, 1914, in a very serious condition. He was met by his
                    sons, Addison J., then a lumber executive in 
                        Oregon
                    , and David M. Parry Jr., and rushed to a hospital where the doctors
                    offered little hope for his recovery. Mrs. Parry was at that moment rushing to
                    his side from 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Mr. Parry recovered sufficiently to be taken to his home in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but he was never the same man again. His health perceptibly
                    declined; at times he suffered losses of memory. Uremic poisoning set in, due,
                    it is believed, to the poor food received on his Asiatic tour. During the last
                    weeks of his life, he was confined most of the time to his bed.
            His death, which occurred during the early morning hours of Wednesday, May 12,
                    1915, was not unexpected, but it occasioned considerable shock among his many
                    friends. His wife and all his children,7 except Ruth, who
                    was then in 
                        New York
                     City, were at his bdeside when he passed away.
            Telegrams from Mr. Parry's business associates and from many others in
                    all parts of the world poured into his home, all testifying to the high esteem
                    in which he was universally held. The local Chamber of Commerce passed a
                    resolution honoring their distinguished fellow-citizen, who had played so
                    conspicuous a part in building up the state in general and the city in
                    particular.
            The funeral services were held at three o'clock in the afternoon of
                    Friday, May 14, 1915, at his beautiful residence in Golden Hill. The sermon was
                    preached by the Rev. Allan B. Philputt, pastor of the Central Christian Church.
                    The actual interment was private, and took place in Crown Hill Cemetery in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Many tributes were paid to Mr. Parry's genius by the press. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News said, in part: "He was of the 
                  
                     7 His eldest son, Maxwell O. Parry, was a realtor
                            by occupation, but he showed much promise as a playwright. During the
                            World War he served as a Second Lieutenant in the 147th Aero Squadron,
                            and as such gallantly met his death, July 8, 1918. His companions turned
                            back, but he remained to fight the enemy single-handed, and was downed.
                            He was posthumously awarded the Croix de Guerre by 
                                France
                             and the Distinguished Service Cross by the 
                                United States
                            . His sister, Mrs. Teasdale, had charge of the food work in 
                                Indianapolis
                             during the war, and was active in securing the suffrage for
                            women in that city. Subsequently, she held positions in the city
                            government at Ocean City, N. J., and the federal government at 
                                Washington
                            , where her husband died Dec. 25, 1935. They had two
                            children: Priscilla (b. Dec. 14, 1909), who studied obseterics at
                            Indiana University, and is now the wife of the author of this article
                            (b. March 26, 1909, representative of an old and learned family of
                            Hessian clergymen, and descended through other lines from Willem
                            Rittinghuysen (1644–1708), the first American Mennonite
                            Bishop and paper-manufacturer, and the Hon. John Wills
                            (1660–1746). Vice-President of the West Jersey Council of
                            Proprietors and a member of His Majesty's Provincial Council,
                            etc.); and John Moffett Teasdale (b. Jan. 12, 1912), a graduate of 
                                Massachusetts
                             Institute of Technology, now connected with the Metallizing
                            Engineering Company of 
                                New York
                            , with his headquarters at present located at 
                                Baltimore
                            .
               
                     cheerful and optimistic turn and a
                    delightful companion among his friends. He could also be an open, frank and
                    vigorous foe. In conduct he was always fearless. … His death today
                    will be noted and he will be missed by his many friends and the several business
                    interests to which he had become attached."8
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star published the following editorial: 
                        The People who knew David M. Parry gained such an impression of his
                            energy and activity that the announcement of his death will bring much
                            surprise to those who have not been aware of his illness, and the event
                            will be difficult to realize.
                        He was a man of force and varied ability, who made a distinct impression
                            on the community in the years when he was in active business. His
                            executive skill, his power to handle large undertakings, his grasp of
                            commercial affairs, set a pace in local business and manufacturing
                            circles that undoubtedly served as an inspiration to his associates in
                            other lines of activity.
                        His prominence in the National Manufacturers' Association, of
                            which he was president for several years, and in other national, civic
                            and commercial organizations made him known throughout the country. He
                            made his way to distinction and wealth by his own efforts, having begun
                            as a poor boy, and was one of the notable self-made men of Indiana and
                            an influence in the development of city and state.9
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  8
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, May 12, 1915.
               
                  9 See 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, May 13, 14, 16, 1915, for the
                        above editorial and other items relating to Mr. Parry.
            
         
         
         
            I Remember My Grandmother
            JULIE LECLERC KNOX
            
            Some of my clearest childhood recollections are of my grandmother, Julie Elise
                    LeClerc, and her home, the old "Le-Clerc House," now the
                    "Swiss Inn" of 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana. Both of my grandfathers as well as my parental
                    grandmother, passed off the stage of life before I came on, but my
                    mother's mother quite made up to me for all the others. She was a very
                    remarkable woman in many respects, but it was only as I grew older that I
                    realized this.
            Julie Elise was the daughter of Jean Daniel and Antoinette Dufour Morerod
                    (pronounced Mó-ró). Antoinette was the sister of the
                    Dufour brothers who came from Vevey, 
                        Switzerland
                    , and founded the little town in southern Indiana which they named
                    for their birthplace in the homeland. The large, brick house where Julie was
                    born still stands in good repair on the western edge of 
                        Vevay
                    . In the basement, once a wine cellar, is a mammoth cask, still
                    intact, with a capacity of five hundred gallons, dating back to the time when
                    these French-Swiss were famous for the quality of their wines. Jean Daniel had
                    been a soldier of Napoleon and had helped to drag his cannon over the Alps
                    before coming with the Dufours, the first colonists to settle in 
                        Switzerland
                     County.
            In 1832, against her parents' wishes, Julie was married before she was
                    twenty to Robert E. LeClerc, born in 
                        Detroit
                     of French parentage.1 The marriage occurred in
                    October, 1832, and, in the following year, the young couple opened the hostelry
                    which was never closed until a year before my grandmother's death at
                    the age of eighty-three. My Grandfather died in 1856 and left his widow with
                    nine children, the youngest then but three years old. One son, Aime, when but a
                    child, had preceded his father in death. If grandmother ever regretted the early
                    romantic marriage that committed her to a life of hard work and heavy
                    responsibilities, no one heard her murmur. Her sisters led sheltered lives but
                    she never 
                  
                     1 It gave me quite a turn, when recently, I found
                            in the family attic, some love letters of Robert, my grandfather, to
                            Julie, my grandmother, and one of hers to him. It was hard to think of
                            her as other than I knew her, a plump, matronly little, old
                            lady—very difficult to vision her as young and the object of
                            the passionate adoration that those tattered, old papers, yellow with
                            age, breathed forth. Young Robert accused the girl he loved of flirting
                            with him, by putting off the wedding day from time to time, and hinted
                            darkly at what might become of him if she continued to listen to
                            parental objections on account of his poverty. I suppose the consent of
                            the obdurate father and mother was at last won, for I can not imagine
                            Grandmother as I knew her to have been a party in an elopement.
               
                     seemed to think their lot was any happier
                    than her own and to the end of her days, "Robert" was
                    enshrined in her loyal heart.2
            
            I've often wondered about Grandfather Robert and tried to picture his
                    personality. I know that he had literary tastes. My first copies of Shakespeare
                    and Byron were inherited from him. The first was guiltless of back, with very
                    fine print and very thin paper. My eyes ache even now to think of it. Byron had
                    one leather cover left and the frontispiece was a picture of the author. When
                    one comes to think of it, does it not seem rather unusual for a young, pioneer
                    innkeeper to care for such books, or any books, for that matter
            Grandmother, as I knew her, had little time for reading, but when she did read it
                    was along historical lines and I well remember her advising me to spend time on
                    history. She believed that reading fiction was often a waste of time. The books
                    that came down to me from her, are historical, philosophical or religious, as:
                        Royal Path of Life, Museum of Antiquity, History of the Bible, 
                            Egypt
                         and the Holy Land, Queenly Women, Crowned and Uncrowned.
                    The daguerreotypes of my youthful grandfather, one in a brooch, represent him in
                    rather handsome, dashing profile, not unlike Lord Byron. A large portrait in oil
                    shows him older and more sedate, a stately gentleman in high stock, with long
                    patrician nose, inherited by some of his children and grandchildren. The
                    companion portrait of Grandmother was painted shortly after her marriage. She
                    wears a white cap with coquettish pink bow, for, no matter how young the bride,
                    she at once assumed a cap—symbol of wifehood. I remember seeing her
                    without her black lace cap only when arranging her hair. Ever after my
                    grandfather's death, she wore heavy black and when she went to church
                    or called on her friends she donned a little bonnet with long, black crepe veil.
                    She not only put on mourning but dressed all her children in black, even to the
                    youngest, then just three years old. This was an old French custom, dressing in
                    black after the death of a loved one, and was followed by all of the family
                    until very recent years. She went calling but seldom, as she was too busy
                    attending to her multifarious tasks and entertaining those who called on her,
                    her social duties being very one sided.
            I have heard one of my aunts tell how as a child, she 
                  
                     2 Though my grandmother had several offers of
                            marriage during her widowhood, her first and only love was never
                            supplanted.
               
                     admired her parents when dressed for a
                    party—Grandmother in stiff pink silk and Grandfather in broadcloth,
                    swinging a gold-headed cane, and how she and several of her brothers and
                    sisters, with adoring admiration, tagged along after them a block or two. But
                    when they were kindly but firmly admonished, "Now, children, it is time
                    you went back home," they went without a word of
                    protest.
            Born in 1812, when women were handicapped by circumstances and prejudices against
                    female education, my grandmother had more than the usual opportunities of the
                    time, though they seem quite meagre now. Besides the village school, she and her
                    sisters had a short time at a 
                        Louisville
                     boarding school. Yet she developed into a good business woman for
                    any day, but especially for that early period. She did her own marketing,
                    personally superintended the dining room and kept her own books. After the
                    day's work was over, she sat her great desk, behind the immense
                    anthracite stove, in the private family sitting-room and balanced her accounts.
                    At such a time, children were warned, not by her but by one of the aunts, to be
                    quiet as "Grandma was working on her books." She was never in
                    debt to any one but many were in debt to her. She was always distinctly the head
                    of her house, not in a domineering way, but in a gentle, dignified manner and
                    she was always looked up to and consulted by her daughters, married and single,
                    who talked "the matter over with mother first." Her
                    sons-in-law, too, had the habit of asking her advice.
            Left a widow with nine children, she bravely faced the future and not only reared
                    all of them but when two widowed daughters returned home with five little boys
                    between them, she helped to rear those boys to manhood. For many years only two
                    married daughters lived out of her home, and it is safe to say that there were
                    not many days that some of those two families did not sit down at
                    Grandma's table. Always at Christmas and Thanksgiving, we were all
                    there together. She would have resented any other arrangement. The great
                    Christmas tree in the back parlor was shut off from curious children until the
                    proper time. Then we entered en masse, to behold the gorgeous
                    sight, decked out with candles, trimmings and everything, with one of the
                    boarders dressed as Santa Claus. The fundamental gift for each of us was a
                    little net bag filled with candy sticks, striped like barber  poles, little hard peppermint ovals, gumdrops,
                    peanuts and an orange, the last at that time a luxury indulged in only at
                    Yuletide. Then there were gifts from every one of the family to each other. Each
                    one had quite a pile of gifts.
            Grandma gave to each of her seven daughters, on successive Christmas days in the
                    order of their ages handsome Swiss gold watches, with long ropes of heavy,
                    solid-gold chains that went around the neck and hung below the waist in a loop,
                    the watch being anchored in a fancy hippocket. Some of these watches were
                    embossed with delicate, black lines and the chains had ornaments, called
                    "charms", strung on them. One of the aunts had a tiny
                    spy-glass on her chain, that piqued my childish curiosity and it was regarded a
                    special privilege to get to peep through it. These watches have been handed down
                    in the family to the second and third generation and are prized as heirlooms.
            At the earnest solicitation of her family, Grandmother sat for her picture and
                    gave one to each of her children on a certain Christmas day. This likeness,
                    taken in her old age, by a really good photographer, is excellent. The black
                    lace scarf about her neck was fastened by a handsome onyx brooch, now my
                    treasured possession. The portraits were handed down to the grandchildren, like
                    the watches and old family silver and jewelry.
            I can see the little, old lady now just as she looks in the photograph, coming
                    along the front hall, smiling at me and smoothing her black sateen apron with
                    one hand while she reached into her capacious pocket with the other and drew out
                    a nickel which she placed in my willing hand, saying, "Here is
                    something for a nice, little girl," which I may have been, at that
                    precise minute, in her eyes. She gave me my first silk dress, a warm, rich
                    garnet color. How well I remember it! There was a peculiar fragrance about that
                    silk, as of bees at work in honey. My first fine hat feather, in the day of
                    ostrich plumes, was a gift from her. It was long, soft and curly and circled my
                    hat crown in a way that thrilled me to contemplate. The dear, old soul! She
                    loved to give happiness. I was her namesake but she played no favorites and was
                    just as generous with her other nine grandchildren.
            When epidemics broke out, we had to stop at Grandma's on the way to
                    school and be fortified against contagion by  little asafoetida-filled flannel bags, worn around the neck like a locket,
                    but next to the skin. The odor acted like a charm to keep companions at bay,
                    which was probably where the real efficacy came in. We were carefully dosed with
                    some sort of cordial, likewise supposed to guard against disease. If we got
                    sick, in spite of all her precautions, Grandma was on hand to help us get well
                    again.
            When talking to her brothers or sisters Grandma always spoke French, and also
                    when speaking with the old French farmer who delivered butter and eggs at the
                    back door. When all the great-aunts and great-uncles broke into torrents of
                    French, which they always did when the children were present, it sounded to us
                    like pigs under the gate. As a prelude, one of them would usually remark that
                    "Little pitchers have big ears." When I asked my mother what
                    kind of pitchers they were talking about, she tried not to look amused and put
                    me off with the promise that I would understand when I grew up. All of which
                    prejudiced me so against the French language that I never cared to learn it. It
                    was only after a college professor came to 
                        Vevay
                    , searching for local history, and I saw my Great-Uncle Aimie
                    Morerod open a desk, brought from 
                        Switzerland
                    , full of old French papers, that I felt a yen to be able to read
                    them. But before I was sufficiently conversant with the language to do so, this
                    old uncle passed on, the desk fell to another branch of the family, and the
                    papers were lost sight of. My mother and aunts refused to study French, though
                    they all spoke somewhat like foreigners. They wanted to be considered Americans
                    and resented being called "little French girls" at school. A
                    little lullaby with which my mother used to sing her children to sleep was all
                    the French I ever heard from her. I doubt very much if she knew or cared what
                    the poet's words meant.
            Grandmother planned to send her two oldest daughters, the twins, Isabel
                    Antionette and Henrietta Angelique, to 
                        Louisville
                     to a boarding-school. Their trunks were already packed when her
                    eldest sister, who was looked up to as the head of the family, counselled her
                    against such a great risk in such evil times, as sending young girls so far from
                    home among strangers. So their ambitious hopes of a broader education were
                    destroyed, and at the same time, those of all the younger sisters, who could not
                    expect to have what was denied the older ones. A grudge was held against grim,
                    old  Aunt Harriet to the end of her life, by
                    the girls who missed boarding-school, because their opportunities were no better
                    than those of most of their associates.
            Two sons were sent to a Catholic school in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , for although Grandma was a staunch Presbyterian and brought up her
                    family in that faith, the Catholic schools at that time were believed to be the
                    best to be found in her section of the country. In the attic I found some sketch
                    books of the uncles, Genie and Johnny, as they were always affectionately
                    called, which show that they had some artistic ability. They both died before my
                    mother was married. Uncle Genie, whose pictures show him to have been a rather
                    handsome young man as a distinctly French type, was a civil engineer.3 Uncle Johnny, when a mere lad, ran off to the Civil War,
                    and died shortly after from the effects of hardship and exposure and a wound
                    received. Aime, the youngest, died when nine or ten years old. And so the name
                    Le-Clerc died with the only daughter who never married, except as preserved as a
                    Christian name by one member in each generation of every branch of the family.
            One winter Grandmother was prevailed upon to take a trip South to visit a
                    daughter whose husband at that time kept a provision store at Luna Landing, 
                        Arkansas
                    . The husband of her youngest daughter fitted up a house boat and
                    took a load of provisions down the 
                        Mississippi
                     and she went with them, a thing that was frequently done in that
                    day. Many of the older inhabitants of 
                        Switzerland
                     County had "made their pile" by the flat-boat
                    trade. George Cary Eggleston's Last of the Flatboats
                    portrays this industry. She brought back with her an old negro servant to look
                    after her horse, tend her garden, do the chores, and be a general factotum. He
                    was called "Old Henry". He attempted to give the impression
                    that he was a "Voodoo" doctor, whatever that might mean. He
                    had a certain dignity and wore, among other articles of raiment, a derby hat. He
                    walked with a limp which he said he had acquired from the bite of an allegator.
                    This converted what might have seemed an affliction, into a glamorous
                    distinction, to our childish imaginations. Our boy-cousins brought back from the
                    mysterious sancity of Old Henry's quarters fascinating stories of the
                    contents. For one thing there was a human 
                  
                     3 He married young but did not live long and died
                            without issue.
               
                     finger in pickle. From him they learned all
                    sorts of negro superstitions, which they relayed to us, with considerable
                    additions and embroiderings, I am inclined to believe. With difficulty I managed
                    to shake myself free from superstitions relating to picking up pins, making
                    wishes, thrusting in my left shoulder, and actions that were supposed to bring
                    or ward off trouble.
            Grandmother's house was always full in summer, of non-paying
                    guests—including distant kin who came in rafts and stayed months at a
                    time. Dimly remembered are Great-Aunts Rose and Roxy, Cousin Victorine, and a
                    Creole from 
                        New Orleans
                     with three impish little boys who are more vividly recalled. There
                    were many others whose names have wholly faded from my mind. It is a great
                    wonder that Grandma was not eaten out of house and home, but she seemed never
                    happier than when playing the gracious hostess. She was always too busy to
                    return any of these visits but occasionally the more ambitious of her seven
                    daughters did go to Gallipolis, 
                        Ohio
                    , a hotbed of Grandfather's French kin, or take a trip
                    "down south" to see the family of Grandmother's
                    youngest sister, Josephine, or visit more distant relatives, for the family was
                    very, very clannish and "great on kin."
            The LeClerc House was established in 1833 on ground purchased from Nicholas
                    Longworth of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , forebear of the late member of the national House of that name.
                    This hotel was operated until 1894, just a year before Grandma's death,
                    a period of sixty-one years, a long time for the continuation of a business at
                    the same place by the same person, and especially by a woman. From
                    Grandfather's death in 1856, Grandmother conducted the business
                    herself. The LeClerc House was "known to all the vagrant
                    train," like that of the "village preacher" of
                    Goldsmith, and beggars went away from the back door with full baskets. Several
                    hungry youngsters, fed in Grandmother's kitchen, rising to some
                    prominence later, returned unashamed to acknowledge their one time poverty and
                    bless the family of their benefactress.
            The original hotel building was added to until in 1851. It grew, like the
                    "Chambered Nautilus," into the present three story brick with
                    some forty rooms. A great cellar, divided into several immense rooms, was as
                    awesome to me  as Mammoth Cave. I had the
                    courage to penetrate the inky darkness but once. In those days there were no
                    electric lights to turn on, and it was necessary to go armed only with a candle
                    or a lantern. Above the old dining room there was once a ball-room with
                    cotillion figures painted on the floor, I have been told. The French and Swiss
                    were socially inclined and could swing a lightsome foot. Almost every one of all
                    the larger houses, private or public, was equipped with a ball-room.
            The old ball-room was later rented to the Odd Fellows as a meeting place and was
                    approached by an outer stair. It became a hall sacred to that secret order, and
                    was thus surrounded with a mysterious glamour to children, because of dark
                    whispers that members rode a goat upon occasion. We wondered if the uncanny
                    animal, suggestive of the powers of darkness, might not be tethered
                    there-abouts. I remember once of having a fleeting glimpse of that room. I
                    stealthily followed a maid ("hired girl," we dubbed such
                    servants then) who went in to sweep and dust. Warily I trailed the maid as she
                    went on with her work, until she let out a terrible "Ba-a-a!"
                    which struck terror to my excited imagination and sent me scurrying down stairs
                    (where I belonged) to relate the adventure to the rest of the youngsters. They
                    jeered at my fears and boasted that they were not scared of any old goat, but
                    none of them ventured up to investigate.
            In those days the private part of the hotel was divided from the public part by
                    the hall. The west entrance led into a large, square room, dubbed "the
                    gentlemen's sitting room" a place taboo to little girls of the
                    family but the boy-cousins had full range. Of course, the room had all of the
                    fascination of Blue Beard's closet. Needless to say, we did steal in
                    occasionally to look around, but there was nothing special to see. There was a
                    tall desk with immense guest-book in which the "drummers," as
                    the commercial travelers were called, registered; big tables to display their
                    wares; a giant stove; and huge splint-bottomed chairs. In fact everything in
                    that room looked Brobdingnagian to us whose heads scarcely reached the desk.
                    There were great brass cuspidors, that old black Henry had to care for daily,
                    and row on row of brass candlesticks that had to be scoured and replenished with
                    tallow candles, which we had seen  made in
                    the moulds. These were used by the transients, who came in at night on
                    steamboats, to light themselves to bed. These candles caused the old LeClerc
                    House to be known, up and down the river, as "The House of
                    Candles"— not "A Thousand Candles," though
                    there seemed to be that many to children. There was no night clerk, so each
                    drummer learned to light his taper, climb to the third story, kept sacred to
                    transients, and turn in at the first room whose open door showed it to be
                    unoccupied. This custom offered a chance for a free lodging to those inclined to
                    abuse a trust by an early and unostentatious flitting. 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     newspapers often published reminiscences of the old time drummers,
                    appreciative of the old LeClerc House, its candles, hospitality, French cookery
                    and presiding genius, "Aunt Julia," as she was called. But
                    those old traveling men, having long ceased to travel, are now lodging in their
                    long home, as are all the adults who made the old hotel a homelike place in
                    those days.4
            
            The old Hotel Register that seemed large enough to me for Gulliver's
                    signature is now the property of the 
                        Switzerland
                     County Historical Society. It bears not a few nationally known
                    names. Among them are: Henry S. Lane, whose efforts helped to make 
                        Lincoln
                     President; Benjamin Harrison, who stopped there when electioneering
                    as a candidate for Governor of Indiana; Daniel Vorhees, "the tall
                    Sycamore of the 
                        Wabash
                    ," as he was admiringly called by his followers. There were
                    many others of the rather recent period that now seems so remote. One of my
                    earliest recollections is of Governor James D. Williams, "Old Blue
                    Jeans," who took me on his knee in the family sitting room, and offered
                    me a big two-cent piece if I would kiss him. That was the day when candidates
                    felt they had to "make over" the children to get votes. I did
                    not want the kiss but I did want the money. I was admonished by the surrounding
                    family, to wrap the coin in paper and never, never spend it. But, I fear that it
                    was all too soon laid out for some tempting confection.
            In later years, W. H. Venable, the 
                        Ohio
                     historian, and James Whitcomb Riley met for the first time at the
                    LeClerc House. I have recently found in an old family scrap-book the 
                  
                     4 Caroline Dale Owen Snedeker, in her novel, Seth Way, incidently speaks of some of the personages
                            of 
                                New Harmony
                             passing through 
                                Vevay
                             and being shown hospitality by my grandmother, Mrs. Julie
                            LeClerc.
               
                     poem by which the historian attempted to
                    commemorate that meeting. The paper has yellowed and the lines entitled
                    "The 
                        Greenfield
                     Wizard," begin with the stanza: 
                        An angel with mysterious eyes, Appareled in Hoosier Guise, I
                            entertained him unawares At 
                                Vevay
                            , in a room upstairs Of the old inn, yclept
                                LeClercs.5
                        
                     In yet later days Thomas R. Marshall and others were guests.
            A huge, clarion-voiced bell, set in the cupalo atop of the house, rang regularly
                    three times a day to summon regular boarders to their meals. The ringing of the
                    bell was so regular that people could set their clocks by it. What a thrill we
                    youngsters got out of the occasional almost sacred commissions to ring it!
                    Visions of "Curfew shall not ring tonight!" darted through our
                    minds as we were swung almost off the floor by the strong pull of the swinging
                    bell. It rang out the old and in the new years for an eventful epoch. It had the
                    distinction of being the first to sound a fire alarm. With or without the
                    consent of the owner, it was often borrowed when there was a
                    "shivaree" (charivari) on, a celebration
                    supposed to contribute to the happiness and anxiety of newly weds. A fine
                    Halloween prank was to take the bell for a vacation, but woe to the luckless
                    wight responsible for its not being on the job at the proper time next morning.
                    It finally burst its throat on some forgotten occasion, and now, like the old
                    Register it is the property of the County Historical Society.
            The spacious, double private-parlors of the LeClerc House were a social center
                    over which my grandmother and her seven daughters presided and where they
                    dispensed hospitality. It was a place to feel the public pulse. Every evening
                    the black horse-hair chairs and sofas were filled with callers, all talking at
                    once. There were family dinner parties, with great-aunts and great-uncles and
                    cousins galore, all feasting and having a good time together. No one's
                    birthday was passed over in silence. Each must be celebrated, especially
                    Grandmother's. Such a party was always arranged as a surprise, and
                    strange as it may seem the little old woman was apparently delightedly surprised
                    every 
                  
                     5 Many regular boarders remained for years. Once a
                            boarder was likely to mean always a boarder. Some lived there fifteen,
                            twenty and twenty-five years, until they all seemed like members of one
                            large family.
               
                     time. One of the largest receptions was on
                    the fiftieth anniversary of the opening of the LeClerc House, which was also the
                    occasion of a farewell party for a grandson, Harry L. Titus, reared in the
                    Hotel. He was departing for 
                        California
                     to make his fortune as a lawyer, in which he succeeded.6 An item in an old scrap-book describes the affair in the
                    flamboyant style of the period, stating that there were at least two hundred
                    guests present. The great dining room became a ball-room with Grandmother, her
                    daughters and grandchildren all on the floor.
            Grandmother had a wonderful garden with all the old fashioned flowers. In recent
                    years these have again "come into their own," for there are
                    fashions in flowers just as in clothes, furniture and names. Arbors, covered
                    with white, red and purple grapes sheltered the walks between the flower beds.
                    Gay yellow marigolds with their clean pungent odor rioted in profusion among
                    heavy headed dahlias. Verbenas sprawled over the ground. Giddy bright colored
                    nasturtiums climbed faces turned sunward. There were petunias with grace and
                    fragrance, and cockscomb, known also by the more glamorous name of
                    Prince's Feather, and seeming to fit both titles equally well. There
                    were bleeding-hearts that suggested valentines, and maiden-hair ferns whose
                    threadlike fronds substantiated their name. There were dainty rock-roses that
                    thrust their delicate blossoms between the stones in the path, often to be
                    crushed by our ruthless coppertoed shoes. There were touch-me-nots whose seeds
                    seem to have perished from the earth for where now may they be found? We could
                    not understand why Grandma tore down and uprooted the morning-glories in such
                    heartless fashion. We did not understand her when she told us that they were
                    marauders. Larkspurs, mignonette and sweet smelling alyssum were grown, but,
                    perhaps most charming of all, were the vanilla and strawberry shrubs which
                    squeezed tightly in our hands, gave up such delightful fragrance. I think Owen
                    Meredith must have had this flower in mind when he penned these lines in
                    "Lucile": 
                        The heart of man is like that delicate weed Which requires to be
                            trampled on, sorely indeed, Before it gives forth the fragrance we
                            wish to extract….
                    
                    
                  
                     6 Mr. Titus bcame a corporation lawyer for the
                            Spreckles Company and built him a fine home on Coronada Beach, sold
                            after his death to Madame Schumann-Heinke. He married the niece of A. E.
                            Horton, founder of San Diego, 
                                California
                            .
               
                     More delicate flowers were nurtured in the
                    pits—bell shaped fuschia with long, protruding tongue and geranium
                    slips and tender young roses. Chrysanthemums were potted and seated on tierlike
                    supports, while bachelor-buttons were permitted to "rough it
                    out" being left in the ground all winter which did not seem quite fair.
            There was a mock-orange tree in a tub in the dining room which tempted with its
                    deceptive fruit. There was a wonderful and lovely night-blooming cereus, that
                    people came from far and near to admire as they filed up and down past it, by
                    twos and threes.
            On Saturdays, the flowers that lent themselves to bouquets, were gathered while
                    the dew was yet on them, and Grandma sat on the wide back porch and arranged
                    them in little tight bunches, tied neatly with string and placed each in its own
                    container along the ledge of the porch, ready to be taken in the cool of the
                    evening, to decorate the graves of her husband and three sons.7 Old Billy was hitched up and one of the children drove Grandmother to
                    the cemetery. Billy was a stubborn, hardmouthed, old fellow. He held his head on
                    one side and in spite of curb and rein, like the wind, went where he listed. But
                    there his likeness to the wind ended for he took his own good time. It shames me
                    now, to think how averse I was to taking my turn in driving for the dear old
                    lady but Billy was to blame.8
            
            Through her long and useful career, Julie Elsie LeClerc was fortunate in
                    preserving that somewhat sturdy health, so characteristic of the Swiss stock.
                    After a short general decline during her last year or two, she passed on. She
                    lived to be almost eighty-three, being spared all of the infirmities that
                    usually accompany old age.9
            
            At the urgent request of her family, Grandmother had about decided to retire from
                    business at the end of her fifty-fifth year as inkeeper, but, at the last
                    minute, she determined to continue a while longer because she liked to keep
                    busy. Six years later the old LeClerc Hotel was formally 
                  
                     7 Her seven daughters survived her.
                  
                     8 The monument in the center of a long lot, was
                            one of the first to be erected in the cemetery and yet holds up its head
                            proudly, acknowledging few better. Now, stretched in a long line in
                            front are the headstones marking the last resting places of dear, old
                            Grandma and all of her family (except three) of which in death as in
                            life, she was center and circumference.
                  
                     9 Her sight and hearing remained good, she was
                            free from rheumatism and her mental powers remained undimmed to the very
                            end.
               
                     closed to the public, the several maids
                    having been given sufficient warning to find other places. Some of them had been
                    in my grandmother's service so long that it was with great reluctance
                    that they left. The private part of the house continued to be occupied by the
                    old owner with the two daughters who still made their home with her, while a few
                    apartments were rented. Here, where sho had lived so long and had done so much,
                    she died. Aware of the approaching end, she was fully prepared to meet it. In
                    accordance with a family custom, dating back to the coming of the Dufour family
                    to this country, the Ninetieth Psalm was read at her funeral services.10
            
            The old LeClerc House remains in 
                        Vevay
                     and is now called the Swiss Inn. Keeping step with the times, so
                    many changes have been made in the interior that I quite lose my bearings when I
                    venture into the building. It takes a "heap of living in a house to
                    make it home" and surely the old LeClerc House proved its right to be
                    called a home, not only for the LeClerc family but for many persons besides who
                    shared its hospitality.
            
               
                  10 When the old father of the Dufours bade his sons
                        and daughters farewell on their departure for America, he offered up a
                        prayer for their safety and success and adjured them to meet together for
                        divine worship as often as possible and when it was not possible to have a
                        preacher he requested them to read to each other Psalm ninety and to have it
                        read at all funerals of the family which custom has been kept up,
                        faithfully, in all branches of the family unto the fourth and fifth
                        generations.
            
         
         
         
            Recollections of Morgan's Raid
            MIDDLETON ROBERTSON
            
            On the eleventh day of July, 1863, Gen. John H. Morgan and his army passed
                    through Graham Township, 
                        Jefferson County
                    , in the flight through southern Indiana from 
                        Kentucky
                     to 
                        Ohio
                    . Not being a trained soldier, Morgan did not rank in ability with a
                    number of the generals in the Confederate Army but was recognized throughout the
                    South as an able and valorous officer. In his military operations in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    , he and his command constituted a destructive force with which the
                    Union armies found it difficult to cope.
            At the time of the Raid, I was not at our family home which was less than a mile
                    from the line of march of the enemy army.1 I was away
                    temporarily visiting an uncle, Dr. H. D. Gaddy, at Weston, in 
                        Jennings County
                    , and so did not see any of the Confederates. There were no
                    telephones or radios in those days, but we kept fairly well advised as to what
                    was going on outside of our community. Hearing of a movement among the citizens
                    to assemble at 
                        Vernon
                     and engage the enemy in battle, my uncle joined them. I see him now
                    through the eyes of memory as he rode away that Sunday morning in company with
                    some of his neighbors, his rifle on his shoulder and enough bullets in his
                    ammunition pouch, that I had helped him mould, to send the souls of scores of
                    Morgan's men to purgatory. The day passed, but no sound of cannon came
                    our way which led us to believe that there was no battle in progress. After
                    hours of waiting for him, my uncle returned. He bore on his person no marks of
                    carnage or strife, but did bring the glad tidings that Morgan had gone without
                    unleashing his guns in the destruction of life or property.
            Not many years prior to his death, G. W. Whitsett, who, for a long period was
                    well known in this part of the country by reason of his musical talent, informed
                    me that he was in 
                        Vernon
                     at that critical period of its history and that a regiment of Union
                    soldiers from 
                        Michigan
                     was there and also a considerable number of citizen soldiers. Mr.
                    Whitsett stated that he was present and overheard a conversation between 
                  
                     1 The author is now more than eighty-six years of
                            age, and was more than eleven at the time of the Raid led by General
                            Morgan.
               
                     General Lew Wallace, who was in command,
                    and the colonel of the 
                        Michigan
                     regiment. The latter begged permission to lead an attack against
                    the enemy, but the general was firm in his opposition, alleging that in view of
                    the superior strength of the foe, such a move would result in a useless waste of
                    life.
            The most vivid remembrance that I have of any experience in those troubled times
                    relates to something that happened a few days after Morgan had gone out of the
                    state. Some men came along, riding fast and furious past my Uncle's
                    place, pausing just long enough to tell us that the Confederate leader, General
                    Forrest, had destroyed 
                        Paris
                     by fire and was coming our way, burning buildings and killing men.
                    My uncle assigned me two tasks—one to assist in burying a box of
                    silver coins, amounting in value, I suspect, to several hundred dollars, and the
                    other to walk to the home of his father-in-law and give warning to the family of
                    impending danger. The distance was about a mile, part of it through a dark
                    woodland. I was younger then than I am now, being in my twelfth year, and not
                    over-stocked with that admirable quality of the spirit called courage. I
                    discharged my trust, but not without realizing that the sense of fear was a part
                    of my make-up.
            The supreme moment was yet to come. It was not long after Morgan passed until a
                    body of armed men on horseback came into view. Surely, we thought, this must be
                    Forrest and his army and the end of the world. We were unduly alarmed, for, when
                    the men came close, they told us they were not Confederates but Union men. It
                    was they who had been at 
                        Paris
                    , they declared, explaining that it was through the distorted
                    imaginations of some parties who had seen them that the rumors of disaster and
                    death had been spread. An imaginary danger, for the time being, is as
                    nerve-racking as an actual one, for, while one thinks he is in danger, to him it
                    is real and palpable. Learning that we had been deceived, whether intentionally
                    or otherwise, the black cloud of fear lifted and passed away. From that day to
                    this I have never felt any danger imminent to myself or country from armed
                    rebellion or foreign foe.
            About a fortnight after Morgan had come and gone, I returned to my home in Graham
                    Township. The perspective was about the same. No marks of vandalism were
                    observable  except the loss of three good
                    horses. There had been a forcible transfer of the title to ownership from the
                    family to the Confederacy. On the morning of July 11 (1863), my brother
                    Philander, had gone to a mill about three miles east of our house. The mill was
                    built on land now owned by Hiram Foster. The trip was made in a two-horse wagon
                    and wheat had been exchanged for flour. The day was fair and no portents were in
                    the sky of impending danger until on the return trip my brother reached a point
                    in the road opposite Pisgah Church. Suddenly about fifty men appeared in view
                    and soon demanded that he get out of the wagon and unharness the horses. Being
                    slow to obey, they persuaded him to hurry by pointing their guns in his
                    direction. The horses then taken were good ones. Philander was forced to walk in
                    front of them to the creek about half a mile north of the Church, where the
                    marauding band bade him go home. Before he reached the house, the band of riders
                    had visited the premises and taken from the stable a fine young black mare, the
                    idol of the family. My eldest sister, Nancy, though habitually of a mild and
                    equable temper, became so angry when she saw her pet mare being taken away, that
                    she told those sons of Dixie what she thought of them in the most abusive and
                    bitter language at her command. She did not accomplish more than if she had
                    given them her blessing instead, for they took the beautiful animal away and my
                    sister newer saw her more. This was one of the great sorrows of her life.
            Our home was not the only one visited by the raiders. Almost all the good horses
                    near the line of march were taken.2 There was one marked
                    exception. James Dowen Robertson, better known in this vicinity as
                    "Uncle Doc", lost only one horse and saved four. His eldest
                    son, Melville, was at home from college on his summer vacation. Looking towards
                    the South, he saw a large body of horsemen at a high point in the road where
                    John Stuart now lives headed in the direction of his home. Acting with quick
                    presence of mind, he went to the barn and rushed off four good horses to a
                    thicket at the back part of the farm where he tied them near together so 
                  
                     2 General Morgan and the main part of his troops
                            passed northward on a road about one mile east of where Deputy is now
                            located. This road was then, and is now, intersected by an east and west
                            road that runs from Deputy to 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana. The intersection of the two roads is about one
                            hundred feet from the bridge on the Deputy and 
                                Madison
                             road. The part of the road traveled by General Morgan which
                            runs southward from the intersection long ago went into disuse, but the
                            part running northward from that point remains for about a mile very
                            much the same as it was in 1863. The 
                                Paris
                             mentioned was the twon in Indiana, about three miles north
                            of Deputy. The latter is on State Road 3 about ten miles north of
                            Scottsburg and nearly west of 
                                Madison
                            .
               
                     they would not get lonseome and break the
                    quiet. These four horses escaped capture. Returning to the house, he found some
                    Confederates ransacking it. Uncle Doc had recently become the owner of a new
                    pair of fine boots, and one Confederate, evidently having some sense of humor,
                    picked up the boots and said: "This fellow has some good boots, and I
                    believe I will trade with him." By reason of some offensive remark,
                    Melville was compelled to go with the rebels as far as Dupont where he was
                    released. Later he joined the Union army, was captured in his first battle, and
                    held for some months in a confederate prison. After his release, he contracted
                    typhoid fever in the Union Camp at 
                        Vicksburg
                    , from which he died.3 Uncle Aquilla Robertson,
                    better known as "Uncle Quill," a brother to Uncle Doc, was
                    less fortunate than his brother in saving his horses, as all of his were taken.
            The youngest daughter of Uncle Quill, Mrs. Rebecca McClelland of Deputy,
                    remembers well the leading events of Morgan's raid. She lived with her
                    father, less than half a mile from the road over which Morgan and his army
                    passed. They could see the cavalry and artillery as they passed along the
                    highway. They first saw them at about 8:30 in the forenoon. They were nearly all
                    day passing. The most exciting scene in the drama came when several Confederates
                    came into the yard clamoring for something to eat. One insistent fellow
                    attempted to go into the kitchen in spite of a refusal by Rebecca's
                    step-mother to admit him. To stop him the stepmother flourished a butcher knife
                    in his face saying: "I'll let you know I am one of the blue
                    hen's chickens from the State of 
                        Virginia
                    , and if you make any further attempt to enter here I'll
                    cut your heart out." Eyeing her intently for an instant, the
                    Confederate said: "I know them Virginians will fight like the devil and
                    I have no doubt you mean what you say." He went away and left her, for
                    the time being, mistress of the situation.
            Next morning (July 12) at about 6:30, while the family were at devotions, the
                    father leading in prayer, several armed men in federal uniform entered. They
                    disregarded the usual civilities on entering a home, and in a rough and
                    overbearing manner demanded something to eat. Being Union soldiers, the family
                    were glad to feed them. The father ended his 
                  
                     3 The "Diary of Melville Cox
                            Robertson" was published in the Indiana Magazine
                                of History (June, 1932), XXVIII, 116–137.
               
                     prayer rather abruptly, as any other good
                    man would have done under the circumstances. Regarding the number of men in each
                    army, Rebecca's impression is that according to the estimates of the
                    people at that time there were somewhere between four and five thousand men on
                    each side.
            My story would not be complete without some reference to another prayer, made a
                    day earlier, that is, on the day of the raid. There then lived in Graham
                    Township a local preacher, Reuben Rice by name. He was an ardent Methodist and a
                    militant abolitionist. These facts, together with his heavy artillery voice when
                    in prayer, made him a distinctive citizen in the community. It was currently
                    reported and generally believed that some Confederates called upon him and under
                    threat of death commanded him to get down on his knees and pray for Jeff Davis
                    and the success of the southern government, which, being under duress, he did.
                    "Prayer being the soul's sincere desire, uttered or
                    unexpressed", it was really not prayer, but mere lip service. It
                    accomplished no good. Rice lived for years and years after John Morgan and the
                    southern Confederacy had passed away, and all through these years prayer was a
                    part of his daily program. One week before this time, Lee and his splendid army
                    were defeated at 
                        Gettysburg
                     and retreated back across the 
                        Maryland
                     border, and Grant, after long, patient and laborious effort,
                    captured 
                        Vicksburg
                    . Surely the clock had struck the hour marking the beginning of the
                    end of the southern Confederacy.
            Dr. C. H. McCaslin, now of 
                        Kansas
                     City, 
                        Missouri
                    , was at the time of the Morgan raid a boy about my age, but much
                    larger and I think much braver. He lived on what is now the E. J. Wolf farm, the
                    dwelling house being within 100 feet of the road over which the armies of Morgan
                    and Hobson passed. From a letter that I received from him, not long since, I
                    quote: 
                  
                     
                        When John Morgan's raid through 
                                        Jefferson County
                                     occurred, I was plowing corn. I looked up the road
                                    and saw a company of soldiers on horseback. I supposed it was
                                    the home guard going to 
                                        Washington
                                    , Indiana, where the company at 
                                        Paris
                                    , Indiana, had been ordered. Morgan had telegraphed
                                    Governor Morton that he was going that way. My brother was at
                                    home on a furlough and he went with the 
                                        Paris
                                     home guard. The Confederates were all day passing
                                    our house, and I wish to state that my mother was sick in bed
                                    and I was sent to the spring for water. It was surrounded with
                                    soldiers. An officer approached and asked if I wanted water. I
                                    told him my mother was  sick
                                    and wanted a drink, and he ordered the soldiers to stand back
                                    and let me fill my bucket. They had several carriages which in
                                    those days were known as rockaways. Whether General Morgan was
                                    riding in one of them or not, I cannot say. They took all of the
                                    horses within the radius of two or three miles on each side of
                                    the road. They told us there would be a larger army the next day
                                    and that they would burn houses and barns, but Generals Hobson
                                    and Shackelford of the Union army followed them.
                     
                  
               
            
            There was an incident on the day of the Raid that gave a touch of comedy to the
                    tragic side of the picture. A prominent woman of our community evinced
                    considerable excitement when she learned that Morgan was near. She lived in a
                    large house, well stored with valuable goods and furnishings. Wishing to salvage
                    something of real worth from the coming destruction, in her confusion she
                    selected a mirror and hastily took it to the garden and buried it. This seems
                    ludicrous in view of the fact that she made no effort to save things more
                    valuable, but perhaps there was method in her madness, for, after all, what is
                    there about a home which a woman prizes more than a looking-glass?
            If the searchlight of truth were applied to all the facts connected with the
                    Morgan raid, it would awaken a memory not complimentary to the Federal
                    Government. Morgan's men, about as fast as they captured and
                    appropriated good horses, discarded those that they did not care to use longer,
                    and quite a number of these were taken over by the farmers. They were fed,
                    groomed, and taken care of until they were fit for farm work. My brother
                    appropriated two of these horses but just when he, in common with his neighbors,
                    felt that they had some amends for their losses, the Federal Government sent
                    agents around and through might not right, took possession of these horses
                    without any compensation to the farmers whatever. This was not only flagrantly
                    unjust, but it was obviously unwise. Here was a government in a great war
                    needing provisions to feed the armies and navies and depending in part on these
                    very farmers to supply foodstuffs, but at the same time taking from them the
                    means of production needful to help the cause along. Later a concerted effort
                    was made to induce Congress to appropriate money to reimburse the farmers for
                    their losses sustained by reason of the losses explained, but these claims were
                    never allowed.
            For more than three score and ten years, the body of John  Morgan has slept in the dust of the earth, but the
                    government that he sought to destroy still lives at 
                        Washington
                    , and the flag under which the Union armies fought still waves in
                    undiminished splendor.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            In 1934 a committee of the Indiana Historical Society on roadside planting on
                    historic highways was appointed. The committee has been reappointed from year to
                    year; it now consists of R. B. Hull, 
                        Lafayette
                    , chairman, Ed J. 
                  Hancock, Greensburg
               , Benjamin Blumberg, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and Mrs. W. W. Garr, 
                        Richmond
                    . The point of view of the Society has been that appropriate
                    roadside planting along state highways is generally desirable, and that it is
                    especially appropriate that historic highways should be distinguished by
                    planting, which, in itself, would make them notable.
            The two most historic highways in the state, beyond question, are the old
                    National or 
                        Cumberland
                     Road (U.S. and State Road 40) and the 
                        Michigan
                     Road (State Road 29 in much of its course).
            Road 40 is the subject of Indiana Historical Society
                    Publications, Volume VII, Number 4, The National Road in
                        Indiana, by Lee Burns (1919). Before the railroad era, it was, after
                    the Ohio River, the greatest channel of immigration,
                    commerce and travel into Indiana and the West In the thirties and forties of the
                    nineteenth century, it was one of the most important, if not the most important,
                    highway in the world. Both its building and its use were full of picturesque
                    associations. With the coming of the automobile, it has again assumed an
                    importance which gives it both state and national significance. The W.P.A.
                    Historic Marker Project is erecting here and there along its course, between the 
                        Ohio
                     line east of 
                        Richmond
                     and the 
                        Illinois
                     line west of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , markers, of a rather temporary character, calling attention to its
                    history. To these, effective roadside planing would add a scenic value which at
                    present it does not have, and which would more than repay the expense involved.
                    Parts of the road have already been widened and permanent planting can be put
                    in. After safety, smoothness, and durability, which must be the first
                    considerations, roadside planting should be developed to add another essential
                    element, beauty.
            The 
                        Michigan
                     Road (in part State Road 29) is preeminently the early state road
                    of Indiana. It ranks with the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Erie
                     Canal as one of the two great works  of internal improvement in the first generation of
                    statehood. It was the subject of special treaties with the Indians. It was, next
                    to the National Road, the greatest entrance into the central part of the
                    state—the avenue by which settlers coming down the Ohio
                        River reached their future homes. For many years, 
                        Madison
                    , its southern starting point, was the "gateway"
                    into Indiana. When completed, the 
                        Michigan
                     Road was the greatest land link between the Ohio
                    River and the Great Lakes.
            Part of the right-of-way of the original road is not now in the State Highway
                    system, but, in a general way, Road 29 between 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Logansport
                     and other state roads beyond 
                        Logansport
                     to 
                        South Bend
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     City correspond to the 
                        Michigan
                     Road. The name 
                        Michigan
                    , which still adheres to certain hills, suburban roads and to one
                    town on Road 29, have come down from the time when the road to Lake 
                        Michigan
                     was the goal of tremendous endeavors among Indiana pioneers. It is
                    to be hoped that as soon as portions of the road are built in conformity with
                    the modern standards of safety, smoothness, and durability, effective roadside
                    planting may mark it in keeping with its historic and practical importance.
            Roadside planting on these and other state roads is within the province of the
                    State Highway Department. The Historical Society can only call attention to the
                    need for it and urge its importance. Doubtless many individuals will join the
                    Society's Committee in seeking so desirable an end.
         
         
         
            History Teachers' Forum
            TO HIGH SCHOOL TEACHERS OF HISTORY*
            
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
            The present issue of the Indiana Magazine of History is the
                    fortieth, consecutive, quarterly number to be prepared for publication by the
                    present editor. No one has served as a "pinch-hitter" at any
                    time during the entire ten years. It has not been difficult to obtain articles,
                    genealogical material or documents for publication. Invariably there is enough
                    copy in hand for two or three issues, with a single exception—matter
                    for printing in the Teachers' Forum department is not often submitted.
                    Requests for short articles relative to the teaching of history only
                    occasionally result favorably.
            This department of the Magazine was initiated in March, 1934,
                    in the hope that teachers of history in Indiana would become more interested in
                    the history of the state. A considerable portion of the college teachers of
                    history in Indiana are members of the Indiana Historical Society and have the
                    opportunity to read the Magazine along with the publications
                    of the Society. The number of high school teachers on the roster of the Society
                    is exceedingly small—entirely too small. It has been a long time
                    since the editor taught high school classes, but he is still vitally interested
                    in the work and the teaching problems of all teachers whose subject is history.
                    He has been especially anxious to reach this group of secondary instructors and
                    to arouse an interest in the history of Indiana, but fears that much the greater
                    number of the teachers in the group know little about the Magazine and less about the History Teachers' Forum.
            The yearly cost of membership in the Indiana Historical Society is very low,
                    though each member receives the Indiana Magazine of History,
                    publised by Indiana University, and much additional and valuable matter,
                    published by the Society. Every member of the Society can feel that he has made
                    a fine bargain when he pays his annual dues of $2.00. In case a
                    history teacher does not feel able to become an individual member of the
                    Historical Society, it is almost always possible for an arrangement to be made
                    whereby the Magazine
                    
                  
                     * The article on textbooks in European
                            history promised for this issue will appear in a later issue.
               
                     may be received by the high school. Indeed
                    every high school in the state should be an institutional member of the Indiana
                    Historical Society.
            If the History Teachers' Forum is to be continued as a feature of the
                        Magazine, high school teachers of history throughout
                    Indiana must show that they wish it to be retained. All teachers of history and
                    all high schools of the state are invited to become users of the Indiana Magazine of History and members of the Indiana Historical
                    Society. I am sure that those who are already in will greet new members, and
                    that they are ready to say—"Come on in. The water's
                    fine."
         
         
         
            Documents
            SOME VINCENNES DOCUMENTS OF 1772
            Translated and Edited, By FLORENCE GOOLD WATTS
            
            The question of the date of settlement of 
                        Vincennes
                     is still an active one in the minds of some of our historically
                    minded citizens, and the possibility of unearthing some new and authentic
                    evidence is not to be overlooked. The report of a visit to the William L.
                    Clements Library at 
                  Ann Arbor,
                            Michigan
               , so rich in
                    source material relating to 
                        Vincennes
                    , led Mrs. Leo Schultheis, who is well informed on the history of
                    the old French families, to inquire if the original manuscript of the Memorial
                    of the Inhabitants of 
                        Vincennes
                     to General Thomas Gage might be among the Gage manuscripts there.
                    Mr. Howard Peckham, Curator of Manuscripts, was appealed to, and he later
                    reported that he had accidentally stumbled upon the Memorial in an unsorted
                    collection of material the day after he received the request. Photostats were at
                    once obtained.
            It seemed strange that the Memorial had never been printed, for the incident with
                    which it is connected has been treated by a number of historians,1 and relevant documents published. A local search failed to disclose
                    any printed copy of the document. The staff of the Indiana State Library was
                    consulted, and Miss Dorothy Riker supplied several valuable references, but
                    could find no printed copies. To make the matter as certain as possible Miss
                    Louise Phelps Kellogg of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     State Historical Society, Milo M. Quaife, of the 
                        Detroit
                     Public Library, and Clarence E. Carter, editor of the Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        ,
                    
                        Washington
                    , D. C., were appealed to, all three of whom replied that the
                    Memorial has not been printed.
            The connection of this manuscript with the foundation date of 
                        Vincennes
                     lies in the statement contained therein that the settlement was, in
                    1772, seventy years old. As the statement was known in print only from
                    Gage's repetition of it 
                  
                     1 John B. Dillon, History of
                            Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1843), 99–100; Jacob P. Dunn, Indiana, a Redemption from Slavery (
                                Boston
                            , 1900), 78: Dunn, Indiana and Indianana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), 128, 129, 130: Paul C. Phillips, "
                                Vincennes
                             in Its Relation to French Colonial Policy," Indiana Magazine of History (Dec. 1921), XVII, 823;
                            Louise Phelps Kellogg. The British Regime in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                 and the Northwest (
                                Madison
                            , 1935), 123. For a more extended account, see Kellogg,
                            "A Footnote to the Quebec Act," Canadian
                                Historical Review (June, 1932), XIII,
                        147–156.
               
                     in his reply,2 it
                    seemed possible that there might be some elaboration in the original document
                    that would throw new light on the subject. Such is not the case, and the
                    Memorial even contradicts itself, for it further says that the settlement was
                    made by a French officer, and, of course, that officer was Sieur de 
                        Vincennes
                    . Jacob P. Dunn once suggested that the Memorial might have been
                    misread because of poor penmanship and spelling.3 This is
                    not possible, for the photostat of the original shows that it was written by a
                    scribe whose hand-writing is unusually clear for that time and place, judging
                    from that of the signers of the document. There is no mistaking, "Nostre établissement est de Soixente et dix
                        année."
            In 1787, a petition of the French of 
                        Vincennes
                     to Congress said that they had inhabited this country for upwards
                    of sixty years.4 That statement would move the date in
                    question to about 1727, probably much nearer the truth. Another communication,
                    sent to Winthrop Sargent in 1790, and signed by two of those who signed the
                    Memorial, Francois Bosseron and Louis Edeline, speaks of the founder, 
                        Vincennes
                    .5 Paul C. Phillips in his article, "
                        Vincennes
                     and French Colonial Policy," says that in 1725 Bienville,
                    the Governor of 
                        Louisiana
                    , wrote that the French had no fort on the Ouabache, although they
                    had always had it in mind to place one there.6
                    
                        Vincennes
                     established his military post under the orders of the Province of 
                        Louisiana
                    , not many years before his death, which occurred at the hands of
                    the Chickasaw Indians in 1736.7 From these few sources, it
                    appears that the French inhabitants of 
                        Vincennes
                     were not justified in their statement in the Memorial, except that,
                    being desperately anxious to present their cause and change Gage's
                    reported opinion of them, they indulged in exaggeration, and added a few years
                    to what was probably a vague date in most of their minds.
            Quite apart from any connection with the founding date of 
                        Vincennes
                    , the Memorial is of interest as a human document 
                  
                     2 Phillips brief resume cited in the preceding
                            footnote is an exception. His reference is to the copy in the Public
                            Records Office, 
                                London
                            .
                  
                     3 Dunn, Indiana, 79 (footnote).
                  
                     4 Clarence E. Carter, ed., Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                , II, 16.
                  
                     5
                            American State Papers, Public Lands, I, 16.
                  
                     6
                            Indiana Magazine of History, XVII, 317.
                  
                     7 See Jacob P. Dunn, "The Mission to the
                            Ouabache," Indiana Historical Society
                                Publications, III, No. 4; Phillips "
                                Vincennes
                             and French Colonial Policy", loc.
                                cit., 323. The editor of the documents published in this
                            article has in her possession an an unpublished article by the late Ben
                            F. Sagar of 
                                Vincennes
                            , who was a careful student of 
                                Vincennes
                             history and a descendent of an old French family. He was
                            convinced (and offered a documented account proving) that Sieur de 
                                Vincennes
                             was the founder of 
                                Vincennes
                            .
               
                     and the story connected with it a moving
                    one. The whole incident was an outcome of the general policy of the British
                    Ministry, and particularly that of General Gage, the Commander in Chief of the
                    British forces in North America, in the administration of the French possessions
                    ceded to Great Britain by the Treaty of 
                        Paris
                     in 1763. The great value of these lands appeared to them, as it had
                    to the French, to lie in the fur trade. Gage wrote that "the country
                    can produce nothing…except Skins and Furrs,"8 a statement which showed a complete lack of appreciation of the
                    agricultural possibilities of this great granary. In order to preserve the fur
                    trade, vast unsettled tracts were necessary, in which wild creatures might
                    propagate and savages pursue them. Furthermore, the French settlements in the 
                        Illinois
                     Country and on the 
                        Wabash
                     were far away from headquarters, making military garrisons, or even
                    civil government, difficult to maintain. The 
                        Illinois
                     settlements did not get along well with the first commandants.9
                    
                        Vincennes
                     had no British officer at all, but a French Commandant, perhaps
                    chosen by the inhabitants themselves. Gage reported to 
                        Hillsborough
                    , Secretary of State for the Colonies, that the French settlements,
                    particularly the one at 
                        Vincennes
                    , were attracting "strollers and vagabonds," who
                    were dfirting there in considerable numbers.10 He further
                    reported that the French were instigating the Indians against the British
                        traders.11 He wrote earlier to Barrington that the
                    Indians had even "murthered" several traders, and that he
                    feared the French might drive the British traders out of the country
                        entirely.12 In short, Post St. Vincent appeared to him
                    to be a rapidly growing "Nest of Villians."13
            
            The conclusion reached by Gage and 
                        Hillsborough
                    , in view of all these difficulties, was that it would be desirable
                    to remove the inhabitants of the distant settlements to some of the established
                    colonies. This was a policy requiring considerable deliberation in the matter of
                    the 
                        Illinois
                     settlements, but the growing settlement at 
                        Vincennes
                     was showing such 
                  
                     8 Gage to 
                                Hillsborough
                            , Aug. 18, 1770, Clarence E. Carter, ed., The
                                Correspondence of General Gage (
                                New Haven
                            , 1931–1933), I, 266; ibid.
                            III.
                  
                     9 Clarence E. Carter, Great Britain
                                in the 
                                    Illinois
                                 Country (
                                Washington
                            , 1910), 60, 146.
                  
                     10 Gage to 
                                Hillsborough
                            , Jan. 5, 1769, Correspondence of Gage, I,
                            212.
                  
                     11 Gage to 
                                Hillsborough
                            , Oct. 1, ibid.
                  
                  
                     12 Gage to 
                                Hillsborough
                            , Mar. 4, 1769, ibid., II, 503.
                  
                     13 Gage to 
                                Hillsborough
                            , May 14, 1770, ibid., I, 275.
               
                     a dangerous tendency that it must be broken
                    up forthwith. Accordingly, 
                        Hillsborough
                     officially informed Gage that it was the King's pleasure
                    that notice be given the inhabitants at once to retire from the place.14
            
            Gage therefore issued the necessary proclamation, dated April 8, 1772, which
                    claimed that 
                        many persons, contrary to the positive orders of the King upon this
                            subject, have undertaken to make settlements beyond the boundaries fixed
                            by the treaties made with the Indian nations, which boundaries ought to
                            serve as a barrier between the whites and the said nations; and a great
                            number of persons have established themselves, particularly on the river
                            Ouabache, where they lead a wandering life, without government, and
                            without laws, interrupting the free course of trade, destroying the
                            game, and causing infinite disturbance in the country, which occasions a
                            considerable injury to the affairs of the King, as well as to those of
                            the Indians; His Majesty has been pleased to order, and by these
                            presents orders are given in the name of the King, to all who have
                            established themselves on the lands upon the Ouabache, whether at St.
                            Vincent or elsewhere, to quit those countries instantly and without
                            delay, and to retire, at their choice, into some one of the colonies of
                            His Majesty, where they will be received and treated as the other
                            subjects of His Majesty.15
                  
                    
            
            This proclamation was evidently conveyed to 
                        Vincennes
                     through Captain Hugh Lord, then in command at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , who was much more acceptable to the French than the preceding
                    commandants. The consternation resulting from this communication may easily be
                    imagined, for the 
                        Vincennes
                     inhabitants had no reason to doubt that the British would carry out
                    the order. The sad fate of the Acadians may have been known to them. They wrote
                    Captain Lord, under date of July 21, that they would send two delegates to
                    General Gage, to present their cause and beg for justice. Lord forwarded a copy
                    of this letter to Gage.16
            
            Shortly after this, in August, 
                        Hillsborough
                     fell from power and was succeeded by Dartmouth. Gage reported to
                    Dartmouth, in his letter of January 6, 1773, that the delegates had not
                        arrived.17 On March 23 following, he received the letter
                    and Memorial from 
                        Vincennes
                    .18 These were dated September 18, 1772. Just
                    how they were transmitted does not appear. Gage does not mention delegates. It
                    is interesting 
                  
                     14
                            
                                Hillsborough
                             to Gage, Dec. 4, 1771, ibid., II,
                            137–178.
                  
                     15 For text, see Dillon, op.
                            cit., I, 99.
                  
                     16 Gage to Dartmouth, Jan. 6, 1773, Correspondence of Gage, I, 343.
                  
                            17
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     18 See endorsement on originals.
               
                     to note the length of time required for the
                    communication to reach Gage at his headquarters in 
                        New York
                    . He forwarded copies to Dartmouth in his letter of April 7, 1773,
                    along with some "Remarks" on the subject of the validity of
                    the 
                        Vincennes
                     land titles. He admitted that land had been granted by French
                    Governors of 
                        Canada
                    , which grants could be verified by the Registers of the Province.
                    However, as the 
                        Illinois
                     Country and Post 
                        Vincennes
                     had depended on the Province of 
                        Louisiana
                    , their grants would have to be verified at 
                        New Orleans
                    , a much more difficult matter. Gage still insisted that many had
                    "strolled" in and "seated themselves without any
                    Colour of Right or Title." However, he had written them to transmit
                    "a List of all the Settlers, to mention each person by Name, the Date
                    of his Grant, by whom granted, by whom confirmed, and where it is
                        registered."19 In the meantime, Dartmouth, much
                    more sympathetic to the woes of the French, wrote to Gage on March 3, 1773, that
                    he considered that the French held their possessions by right, and that
                    furthermore, the inhabitants of "Post S. Vincent" no longer
                    appeared to be "a lawless vagabond Banditti … but in the
                    Light of Subjects claiming the King's protection and countenance in
                    Right of possessions held under regular Titles."20
            
            Gage was about to return to 
                        England
                     on leave, and Dartmouth expressed the hope of receiving all
                    possible information direct from him.21 Haldimand, who
                    commanded in Gage's absence, was opposed to the plan of removal, and
                    intimated that most of the accounts of 
                        Vincennes
                     had come from "jealous and self-interested
                    traders." He offered the settlers every encouragement to prove their
                    grants, and said he would recognize those that appeared just.22
            
            The Verification of Titles asked for was prepared according to the directions of
                    Gage and sent to General Haldimand. Along with it came a letter from St. Marie,
                    the Commandant, and certificates of Phillibert, the Notary, and St. Ange,
                    long-time commandant at 
                        Vincennes
                    , under whom most of the grants had been made.23
            
            
               
                  19
                        Correspondence of Gage, I, 374–378.
               
                  20
                        Ibid., II, 156–157.
               
                  21
                        Ibid., note 20.
               
                  22 Phillips, "
                            Vincennes
                         and French Colonial Policy," Ioc.
                        cit., 337.
               
                  23 Printed in Indiana Historical Society
                            Publications, I (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1879), 421–431.
            
            
            Gage reported to Haldimand that there was no inclination to deport the settlers,
                    but just what to do about furnishing them with a government was uncertain.24 The final decision resulted in the Quebec Act of 1774,
                    which added a vast region to the Province of Quebec.
            Says Miss Kellogg: 
                        The great extent of country bounded by the Ohio
                            River, the Great Lakes, and the 
                                Mississippi
                             … was for the sake of its French inhabitants
                            joined to 
                                Canada
                             and taken from the American colonies, which claimed the
                            rights of settlement therein. As is well known, this was one of the
                            grievances cited by the Americans in their Declaration of Independence.
                            To avoid making exiles of the Western French, the British ministers
                            annexed this great region to their new Province of Quebec.25
                  
                    
            
            Upon Gage's return to America in May, 1774, the disturbances in the
                    Eastern colonies demanded all his attention, and there is only one brief mention
                    of the western settlements in his published letters.26
                    
                        Vincennes
                     had an interlude of peace until the stirring events of
                    1778–1779.
            The list of photostats obtained from the William L. Clements Library includes:
                    the original letter; the Memorial; and the retained copy of the letter of the
                    inhabitants of Post 
                        Vincennes
                     to Captain Lord. As before stated, the penmanship of these
                    documents is clear enough, but not so much can be said of the signatures. Part
                    of them are much faded, as well as badly written. Copies of the Memorial and
                    letter were retained with Gage's papers, and so photostats were sent
                    for, in order to see what the guess of the copyist might be as to the
                    signatures. With these and several available lists of the inhabitants (such as
                    the census of 1769), the Verification of Titles, and lists of names in the American State Papers, Public Lands, most of them were
                    deciphered. Mrs. Schultheis supplied several. Finally, through the kindness of
                    the late Very Reverend James Gregoire, pastor of the St. Francis Xavier Parish
                    (the Old Cathedral at 
                        Vincennes
                    ), one of his assistants checked the list by copies of the early
                    parish register, thus clearing up all but one name. The signatures on both
                    documents are the same, and in practically the same order, except that the
                    Memorial has one fewer than the fifty-six of the letter. There was no room on
                    the page for the last man 
                  
                     24 Louise Phelps Kellogg, "A Footnote to
                            the Quebec Act," loc. cit., 155.
                  
                            25
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     26 Gage to Dartmouth, March 4, 1775, Correspondence of Gage, I, 394.
               
                     to sign the Memorial. As usual, the
                    spelling varies from that of other lists.
            As will be seen, the Memorial is an eloquent document. With the serious charges
                    of Gage's proclamation to refute, the settlers were faced with a real
                    task to find convincing answers and to express them forcefully. As is often the
                    case, the language becomes flowery at times, and punctuation is omitted. This
                    makes it somewhat difficult to decide just what idea it is intended to convey.
                    Mr. Anton Reinbold, professor of French at 
                        Vincennes
                     University, and Dr. Bruno Roselli helped greatly in clearing up
                    obscure passages.
            An effort was made to discover whose might be the handwriting of the original
                    documents. They were checked by the Francis Vigo Papers in the Harrison Mansion
                    at 
                        Vincennes
                    , but no comparable script was found, although there are several
                    documents of the time. Either the copyist took such pains that the result lost
                    all resemblance to his every-day handwriting, or he is not represented in the
                    Vigo papers. There seems to be no resemblance between the hand-writing of the
                    documents and that of Etienne Phillibert, Gabriel Le Grand, or Antoine Gamelin,
                    early notaries.
            [THE DOCUMENTS and TRANSLATIONS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [Endorsement]
                                    Letter from the settlers at Post Vincent on the River
                                        Ouabache, toCapt. Lord of the 18th Regt. Commanding at
                                        Kaskaskias in the 
                                            Illinois
                                         Country.

                                    To Right Honble. Earl of Dartmouth, one of his
                                        Majesty's Principal Secretary's of State.
                                    No. 5. 6th: January
                                        1773
                           
                                    (Pour Copie)
                           
                                    Monsieur,
                                
                        Nous avons reçü les Ordres du Roy, que vous
                                    aves eû la Bont´ de nous envoyer, pour
                                    sortir du Päis; Nous donnerons à sa
                                    Majesté dans toutes les occasions des Marques de
                                    notre Fidelité et de notre Obeissance; mais il nous
                                    paroit que le Roy notre Maitre n'est pas instruit des
                                    Titres de Concessions que nous avons sur ces Terres.
                                    C'est ce que nous engage à envoyer a Monsr.
                                    Le General Gage deux Deputés pour
                                    l'instruire de nos Droits, afin de supplier sa
                                    Majesté de nous faire Justice.
                        
                                    Nous avons l'Honneur d'etre avec un
                                        tres profond Respect,
                                        Monsr
                                 
                              
                                        Votre très humble et
                                            très
                              
                                        Obéissant Serviteurs,
                              
                           
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                 Au Poste Vincent,
                              
                                        le 21e Juillet 1772
                              
                                    
                                    
                                        P. Hilliber [Phillibert?]
                              
                                    
                                    
                                        LEDeloin
                                    
                                    Marque+de Noyon
                                    Ste Marie
                                    Marque+Cardinal
                                    Barellon
                                    Marque de+La Deroute
                                    C Luru [Olivier] Santiez
                                    Marque de+Bienet
                                    Jean Bape. St. Aubin
                                    Veudroite
                                    Bat Caunaux
                                    Francois Barrois
                                    Pierre Gosselin [Gamelin?]
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [Translation]
                                    Sir,
                                
                        We have received the orders of the king, which you have had the
                                    kindness to send us, to leave the country. We shall give to His
                                    Majesty at every opportunity proof of our fidelity and of our
                                    obedience; but it seems to us that the King our master is not
                                    acquainted with the titles of concession which we have to these
                                    lands. It is this which obliges us to send two delegates to
                                    General Gage to inform him concerning our rights that he may
                                    entreat His Majesty to render justice to us.
                        
                                    We have the honor to be with very profound respect,
                                        Sir,
                              
                                        Your very humble and very obedient
                                            servants,
                           
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                 At Post Vincent,
                              
                                        July 21st, 1772.
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [Endorsement on outside wrapper]
                                    
                              Indian Dep. 1.
                           
                                    Letter from the Inhabitants of Poste Vincenne, on the
                                        ouabache to General Gage—
                                    
                                        Septr: 18th: 1772
                                        Received March 23rd: 1773.
                                        
                                    
                                    Monsieur
                                
                        Nous avons reû avec autent de Respect que de Surprise
                                    laproclamation dont Vostre Excelence a ordonné
                                    qu'on nous fit la publication; plains de respect pour
                                    tout cequi porte l'emprinte de Lauthorité
                                    Nous aurions obeis sens differer Sil Nous avoit
                                    été possible et Si Nous Navions Roconnue
                                    que La chauze ne regardoit que des Vagabons et Non des habitans
                                    paisibles Cultivateurs ayent des possessions sur des tittres
                                    sacrées.et que Nostre obeissance Même
                                    seroit injurieuze a Sa magesté et contraire a Ses
                                    Interest,Dailleurs Vostre Exelence,Monsieur peut Mieux que
                                    personne Connoistre L'impossibilité absolue
                                    Ou Nous Nous trouvons de transporter au loüin Nos
                                    fêmes et Nos enfents Sans autres resources
                                    qu'un Vaine esperence destre reĉu Comme les
                                    autres Sujets,cequi Nous fairoit effectivement meriter le titre
                                    de Vagabons, Nous Vous supplions Monseur de prendre En
                                    consideration tout cette lettre que Les respectueuzes
                                    representations que Nous avons lhonneur de Vous adresser cy
                                    joüint que Nous Vous prions de faire parvenir  a un prince pour lequel
                                    Nous Serons toujours prets a sacrifier Nos Vies et Nos Biens
                                    lors que Son Service le Requerrera reellement.
                        
                                    Nous avons lhonneur destre avec leplus Profound Respect
                                        De Vostre Exelence
                               Monsieur Vostres humbles et tres
                              
                                        obeissents Serviteurs
                           
                                    
                                        
                                 Vincenne
                              
                                        Le 18e 7bre 1777
                              
                                    
                                    Ste marie Commenden
                                    baullon
                                    marque de+Laderoutte Capt
                                    Bosseron Baptts
                                    chapau
                                    marque+de Chabot
                                    marque+de Cornoye
                                    huberdeau
                                    milliet
                                    veuve Mallet
                                    marque de+plichon
                                    St.aubien
                                    disy
                                    ducharme
                                    Olivier Santiez
                                    Chabot+Lejeunne
                                    marque de+Berromehe (?)
                           
                                    marque de+Latulipe
                                    marque+Millet Cardinal
                                    marque+de paget
                                    chine
                                    marque+de Desloriers
                                    marque de+perron
                                    marque+de Danis
                                    LEDeline
                                    fr Bosseron
                                    marque de Brunet
                                    marque+de Neaux
                                    peron+fils
                                    marque+de Corneau
                                    Mariè
                                    francois goderré
                                    marque de+Cartier
                                    marque+de Veaudre
                                    chalbaunaux
                                    ipolite bolon fils
                                    marque de+Boye
                                    louis Crepo
                                    marque de+Lavigne
                                    marque de+Jeanmarie Barrois
                                    marque de+jib Laviolette
                                    marque+allaire
                                    marque de+Villeneuve
                                    marque de+charle Bonneau fils
                                    louis Mallett
                                    francois barrois
                                    vudroite
                                    J B+Valcour
                                    marque de+St yzier
                                    marque+de Binet
                                    joseph peridot
                                    rene Codere
                                    marque de+Deshtre
                                    marque de+Latrimouille
                                    marque de+Denoyon lejeun
                                    marque de+Denoyon Laine
                                    marque de+Morrin
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [Translation]
                                    Sir:-
                                
                        We have received with as much respect as surprise the
                                    proclamation which Your Excellency has ordered to be issued to
                                    us. Filled with respect for whatever carries the imprint of
                                    authority, we would have obeyed without delay if it had been
                                    possible, and if we had not recognized that the matter would
                                    apply to vagabonds and not to peaceful agricultural settlers,
                                    holding posessions based upon sacred titles, and that our very
                                    obedience would be injurious to His Majesty and contrary to his
                                    interests. Furthermore, Your Excellency, you can understand
                                    better than anyone the absolute impossibility in which we find
                                    ourselves of transporting afar our wives and children without
                                    other resources than a vain hope of being received as other
                                    subjects, which would indeed cause us to deserve the title of
                                    vagabonds. We implore you, Sir, to take into consideration this
                                    entire letter as well as the respectful representations which we
                                    have the honor of addressing to you herewith and which we beg
                                    you to forward to a ruler for whom we shall always be ready to
                                    sacrifice our lives and our property  whenever his service shall in
                                    reality require it.
                        
                                    We have the honor to be with the most profound respect
                                        for Your Excellency, Sir,
                                        Your humble and very obedient
                                        servants,
                           
                                    
                                        
                                 
                                    
                                       Vincennes
                                    ,
                              
                                        September 18, 1772.
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [Endorsement on outside wrapper]
                                    
                                    
                              Indian Dep 2
                           
                                    Memorial of the Settlers at Post Vincenne to Genl Gage
                                    
                                        Sept. 18 1772,
                                        Received March 23rd 1773
                              
                                    
                                    Tres humbles Representations quont Lhonneur de faire a
                                        son Exelence, Monsieur Major General Gage Les Habitants de
                                        Vincenne Sur le oüabache-au Sujet de la
                                        proclamation du huit avril dernier.
                                    Monsieur
                                
                        Le desespoir serois l'unique resource des Malheureux
                                    supplient Sil navoient la confience la plus assurée
                                    dans la Justice de Sa Magesté Britanique,dans la
                                    droiture de Ses Intentions et dans les Bons offices que vous
                                    vouderois Bien leurs rendre aupres Du trone.
                        Dans la Consternation qua genneralement rependue parmi Nous
                                    lapublication de Vostre proclamation du huit avril Dernier Nous
                                    avons innutillement cherché les Cauzes dordres Si
                                    affligentes et Si Rigoreux et dapres le jugement leplus Severe
                                    de Nos actions depuis queNous Vivons Sous lheureux Gouvernement
                                    de sa Magesté nous avons crüe quil faloit
                                    en chercher la Source Dans lavidité de ceux qui ont
                                    Envie denvahir Nos heritages, et qui pour y parvenir ont
                                    cherché a Noircir Nostre conduitte.
                        Pourions Nous En effet Sens menquer au respect due ala Justice de
                                    Sa Magesté,a Sa parolle Sacrée et a Ses
                                    Serments inviolables,donner Une autre Source a un ordre (quil
                                    Nous Soit permis deledire avec respect) Si inhumain et qui Sape
                                    dans son principe Son droit de Souveraineté, Dans Ces
                                    contrées,puis que le mesme acte qui le luy assure
                                    promet de respecter nos posessions? depuis quand Sous le
                                    Gouvernment le plus equitable Se Joueroit on de la
                                    propriété qui ne peut pericliter quil ne
                                    Soit luy mesme en denger.
                        Nous nous Sommes Meconues dans les termes de la proclamations de
                                    Vostre Exelence et ces mesme termes Nous rassurent Sur lavenir
                                    puis quil paroist quon enveut qua des Vagabons, aulieu que nous
                                    formons un peuple D'habitent tranquil cultivent des
                                    terres que Nous avoit concedé Sa Mageste tres
                                    Chretienne,ou que Nous avons acheté et Souvent
                                    arozé de Nostre Sang tous titres aussi
                                    Sacré quinviolable Sous un Gouvernement dont le
                                    fondement innebrenlable est assis sur La Justice et
                                    Lequité
                        Nous ne nous sommes point etablie icy a laventure et Contre les
                                    ordres du Roy ainsi quon la insinué a Sa
                                    Magesté et peut estre mesme avostre Exelence,Nostre
                                    establissment est du Soixente et dix année et par
                                    Consequent Bien Enterieur au Gouvernement de sa
                                    Magesté pour laperpetuité du quelle nous
                                    formons de Voeux seinceres Il a été fait
                                    par ordre et sous la protection de sa magesté tres
                                    Chretienne par un officier 
                                    de Ses troupes qui y Commendoit en Son Nom, apres luy nous avons
                                    toujour Eu deautre Commendent francais jusqua la paix qui En a
                                    assuré la possession a la Grand Bretaigne.
                        Les Traités qui fixent Les limittes Entre les Indiens
                                    et les Blancs ainsi que les ordres de Sa magnesté
                                    dont Vostre proclamation fait mention Nous ont toujour
                                    été tres In connues Dailleurs ils Sont ou
                                    enterieurs, ou posterieurs a la dernieres paix avec la france
                                    dans le premier Cas Ils Ne pouvoient Nous concerner puisque Nous
                                    Netions point sujet Bretons dans le Second Ils N'ont pu
                                    etre fait que Sous la reserve de Nos droits;quant au reproches
                                    qu'on Nous fait de Vivre Sens loix et Sens
                                    Gouvernement,Cest Une perre qui les fait a des enfants incabable
                                    de Se conduire Euxmesme cest aluy dy pourvoir;
                        Nostre ignorence en cette partie et Nostre Soumission Exigeoit
                                    que le Gouvernement y pourvûe et repondoit du
                                    succes,quelle Interruption avons Nous apporté au
                                    Comerse amoin quon Neveuille Nous rendre responsable de la
                                    langueur ou il est generellement tombé dans ces
                                    Contrées Soit par Ledeffaut deVente de
                                    Nosdanrées comme par le passé soit par une
                                    surcharge de Marchandize exedente de Moitié
                                    Célle qui peuvent estre consommé et
                                    payées Soit par la faĉon de traitter et
                                    encaure plus par le deffaut decontenir et de Conduire les
                                    Seauvages qui Se portent a toutte Sorte dexex et qui traitte a
                                    Sa fentaizis—
                        Qu'on nous envoye des trouppes on voira toutte chauze
                                    Rentrer dans l'ordre le comerse renaitre et Nous
                                    devenir des hommes hutils et que de tout les endroit celuy cy
                                    est le plus necessaire quoique le plus Negligée etent
                                    le centre entre ledetroit et le fort pitt et les 
                                        Illinois
                                    ,le passage des Nations et la Sureté de
                                    la belle rivierre et du Missisipie quil Nous Soit permis de
                                    Representer a Son exelence que si Samagesté est dans
                                    le dessin détablir cepays il faut toujours commenser
                                    par le haut qui fait la sureté du Bas auquel il peut
                                    prester promptement Secour aulieu quil ne peut en recevoir que
                                    de tres tardiffe par la difficulte de remonter celuy qui Sera
                                    maistre du haut par cette Raison le Sera toujours du bais,-
                        Le crime qu'on Nous fait de detruire le gibier est de
                                    Nul Invention Nous chassons ainsi que nous faisions par le
                                    passé pour vivre lors que la culture de nos terres
                                    Nous le permet, en cela Nous Ne faisons que ceque font les
                                    habitent des 
                                        Illinois
                                     et les Englais mesme qui y sont, les Seauvages En
                                    detruiroie Unpeut plus et tout revienderoit au même
                                    Cest parla que sous legouvernement franĉais,Nous Nous
                                    sommes trouvé a mesme de fournir des annimeau
                                    domestiques pour le services soit icy,aux 
                                        Illinois
                                    ,ou au fort pitt,cest par ce moyen que Nous avons
                                    été amesme de fournir au troupes englaize
                                    aux 
                                        Illinois
                                    -Laplus grande partie des annimeaux quelles y ont
                                    Consommé depuis leurs arrivées et que Nous
                                    Serons en etat deleurs En fournir daventage alavenir et aux
                                    habitents qui pourons venir escela le prejudice qu'on
                                    Nous accuze daporter aux affaires du Roy.
                        Quent aux Seauvages Nous Serions trop heureux Sils avoient pour
                                    nous les attentions que labandons ou Nous Sommes nous force
                                    d'avoir pour eux cedont nous ne pouvons Nous flatter
                                    quantent que Nous Nous pretons Un mutuel Secour avec une
                                    garnison que Nour desirons innutillement depuis long temps
                        
                        Telle sons les motifs dont on a coloré la Surprise
                                    faitte ala religion du meilleur des Roy que Nous Cherissons et
                                    respectons;Son Exelence par etat a été
                                    obligé den faire les objet dela proclamation dont
                                    nous demendons humblement la rëéction
                                    Comme Injurieuze a lequité du Roy alaquelle Nous en
                                    appelons,Nous avons la plus ferme Confience dans les hautes
                                    vertues de son exelences et comme cest le propres des grandes
                                    ames de sinteresser pour un peuple malheureux-Lors que lajustice
                                    est deson coté,Nous la supplions de suspendre la
                                    proclamation et enfin den soliciter elle mesme la reduction elle
                                    faira chauze digne delle et obligera ajamais let
                                    soussignées habitents qui ne Cesserons de former des
                                    Voeux pour la prosperité et Conservation
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 . A Vincenne
                              
                                        le 18e7bre 1772
                                    
                                    Stemarie Commendent
                                    marque+de laderouette capitaine
                                    baullon
                                    chapau
                                    marque Chabot+
                                    Marque de+Cornoye
                                    Bosseron Baptts
                                    huberdeau
                                    miliet
                                    veuve Mallet
                                    St aubin
                                    disy
                                    marque+de plichon
                                    Chabot+Le Juene
                                    marque+de Berrouy(?)
                           
                                    ducharme
                                    Olivier santiez
                                    marque+delatulipe
                                    marque+millet Cardinal
                                    marque+de paget
                                    chine
                                    marque de+Desloriers
                                    marque+de perron
                                    marque+de Danis
                                    LEDeline
                                    fr Bosseron
                                    marque+de Brunet
                                    marque de+Neaux
                                    perrons+fils
                                    marque de+Corneaux
                                    marié
                                    francois goderre
                                    marque de+Cartier
                                    Chalbauneaux
                                    marque+de Boye
                                    marque de+Veaudry
                                    louis crepo
                                    ipolite bolon fils
                                    marque de+Lavigne
                                    marque de+Jean marie Barrois
                                    marque de+Villeneuve
                                    marque+de jb Laovilette
                                    marque de+alaire
                                    marque de+Charle Bonneau fils
                                    marque de+styzier
                                    francois barrois louis Mallett
                                    marque de+Binet
                                    joseph peridot
                                    vudroite
                                    J.B.+Valcour
                                    rene Codere
                                    marque de Latrimouille
                                    marque de Deshtre
                                    marque de Denoyon Laine
                                    marque de Denoyon Le Jeune
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [Translation] 
                                    Very humble representations which the inhabitants of 
                                            Vincennes
                                         on the 
                                            Wabash
                                         have the honor to address to His Excellency
                                        Major General Gage, on the subject of the proclamation of
                                        last April Eighth.
                                    Sir:—
                                
                        Despair would be the sole resource of [your] unhappy suppliants
                                    if they did not have the most certain confidence in the justice
                                    of His Brittanic Majesty, in the righteousness of his
                                    intentions, and in the good offices which you will be willing to
                                    render them at the foot of the throne.
                        In the consternation which the publication of your proclamation
                                    of last April the Eighth has spread among us generally, we have
                                    uselessly searched for the causes of such distressing and harsh
                                    orders, and after the most rigid judgement of our actions since
                                    we have lived under the felicitous government of His Majesty, we
                                    have reached the belief that it would be necessary to seek their
                                    source in the greed of those who wish to encroach upon our
                                    inheritance, and who, in order to succeed, have sought to
                                    blacken our conduct.
                        
                        May we, indeed, without being wanting in the respect due to His
                                    Majesty's justice, to his sacred word, and to his
                                    inviolable oaths, give another source to an order (may we be
                                    permitted to say it with respect) so inhuman, and which
                                    undermines in its principles his right of sovereignty in these
                                    regions, since the same act which assures it to him, promises to
                                    respect our possessions? How long, under the most equitable
                                    government, could one make light of the right of property, which
                                    can not jeopardize without being itself in jeopardy?
                        We do not recognize ourselves in the terms of the proclamation of
                                    Your Excellency, and the same terms reassure us with reference
                                    to the future, since it would appear that we are complained of
                                    as vagabonds, whereas we are a group of peaceful settlers,
                                    cultivating the lands which His Most Christian Majesty granted
                                    us, or which we have purchased, and often watered with our
                                    blood, all titles as sacred as they are inviolable under a
                                    government, the unshakable foundation of which is seated upon
                                    justice and equity.
                        We did not establish ourselves here by chance, and contrary to
                                    the orders of the King, as has been insinuated to His Majesty
                                    and perhaps even to Your Excellency; our settlement is seventy
                                    years old, and consequently long preceding the government of His
                                    Majesty, for the perpetuity of which we offer sincere prayers.
                                    It was made by the order and under the protection of His Most
                                    Christian Majesty by an officer of his troops who commanded here
                                    in his name; after him we have always had other French
                                    commandants, up to the time of the peace which assured its
                                    possession to Great Britain.
                        The treaties which establish the boundaries between the Indians
                                    and the Whites, as well as the orders of His Majesty of which
                                    your proclamation makes mention, have always been entirely
                                    unknown to us. Furthermore, they either precede or are
                                    subsequent to the latest peace with 
                                        France
                                    . In the first case, they could not have concerned
                                    us, since we were not British subjects; in the second, they
                                    could not have been made except with the reservation of our
                                    rights; as to the reproaches which are made to us of living
                                    without laws and without government, it is a father who makes
                                    them to children incapable of taking care of themselves; it is
                                    his duty to provide for them.
                        Our ignorance in this business and our submission would require
                                    that the government make provision for it and be answerable for
                                    success. What interruption did we bring to trade unless some one
                                    wishes to make us responsible for the decline into which it has
                                    in general fallen in these regions, either through the want of
                                    sale for our commodities as in the past, or by a surplus of
                                    goods, exceeding by half that which might be consumed and paid
                                    for, or by the manner of dealing with, and still more by the
                                    want of restraining and guiding the savages, who give themselves
                                    over to all sorts of excesses, and who act according to their
                                    whims.
                        Let troops be sent to us. You will see everything returning to
                                    order—trade reviving, and ourselves becoming useful
                                    men; and of all places this is the most necessary, although the
                                    most neglected, being the center between 
                                        Detroit
                                    , Fort Pitt, and the 
                                        Illinois
                                     country, the thoroughfare of the nations, and the
                                    security of the Beautiful River and the 
                                        Mississippi
                                    ; may we be permitted to represent to His Excellency
                                         that if His Majesty is
                                    planning to establish this region, he must always begin with the
                                    upper part, which makes for the security of the lower, to which
                                    it can lend aid promptly; whereas it can receive help only after
                                    a long delay because of the difficulty of going up [against the
                                    current]. He who will be master of the upper part will always,
                                    for this reason, be master of the lower.
                        The crime of destroying the game, of which we are accused, is a
                                    fabrication. We hunt to live, as we have done in the past, when
                                    the cultivation of our lands permits. In this we do only what is
                                    done by the inhabitants of the 
                                        Illinois
                                     country, and by the English themselves who live
                                    there. Should the savages destroy a little more, the result
                                    would be the same. It is in that way that under the French
                                    government we were able to furnish domestic animals for the
                                    service, either here, in the 
                                        Illinois
                                     country, or at Fort Pitt; it is by this means that
                                    we have been able to furnish to the English troops in the 
                                        Illinois
                                     country the greater part of the animals which they
                                    have consumed there since their arrival, and we will be in a
                                    position, moreover, to furnish them, and the settlers who may
                                    come, still more in the future. Is that the injury we are
                                    accused of bringing to the business of the King?
                        As to the savages, we would be only too happy if they had for us
                                    the care which our state of neglect compels us to have for them,
                                    a situation which we cannot enjoy unless we exchange mutual help
                                    with a garrison, which we have fruitlessly desired for a long
                                    time.
                        Such are the motives with which has been painted over the
                                    betrayal of good faith of the best of kings, whom we love and
                                    respect. His Excellency on this account has been obliged to make
                                    this matter the object of the proclamation of which we humbly
                                    request the retraction, as prejudicial to the justice of the
                                    king, to which we appeal. We have the strongest confidence in
                                    the superior virtues of His Excellency, and as it is the
                                    characteristic of the great to interest themselves in an unhappy
                                    people when justice is on its side, we beg him to stay the
                                    proclamation, and in short to urge even its withdrawal; he will
                                    perform an act worthy of him, and will oblige forever the
                                    undersigned inhabitants, who will not cease to offer prayers for
                                    his prosperity and preservation.
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 
                                    
                                       Vincennes
                                    ,
                              
                                        the 18th of September, 1772.
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
            SERGEANT-MAJOR BLANCHARD AT GETTYSBURG
            NORMA FULLER HAWKINS
            
            
               With whispered word and softened tread,
               We walk today where sleep these dead
               As brothers, 'neath a hallowed sod
               In endless peace with man and God!
            
            The flag was stained, full of holes and soiled, and as a very small child, I
                    could not see why my mother cared so much for it when there were so many pretty
                    new ones to be had. With the years came understanding, and I grew to share her
                         reverence and sentiment for this
                    particular flag for it was bullet-torn and stained with the life blood of her
                    brother, Asa W. Blanchard, who as a lad of nineteen, enlisted in the Union Army
                    and gave his life to save these Colors which covered his body when it was sent
                    home to his parents.
            Twenty-four years later, William W. Dudlay, Brevet Brigadier General 
                        United States
                     Volunteers and formerly Lieutenant Colonel of the Nineteenth
                    Indiana Volunteers, in whose regiment my uncle served, persuaded my mother to
                    part with the flag that it might be given to the State of Indiana and preserved
                    for posterity.
            Replete in human interest, and historic fact, I feel that the following letter of
                    Col. Dudlay's is a valuable addendum to any history which may have been
                    written of the memorable battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                    .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [THE LETTER OF 1887]
                                    
                                        
                                 
                                    
                                       St. Paul
                                    , Minn.,
                              
                                        August 9, 1887.
                                    
                                    
                              Hon. George R. Blanchard,
                              
                                 
                                    Chicago
                                 , Ill.
                           
                                    Dear Sir:—
                                
                        At the earliest moment since my return when I could spare the
                                    time to do so, I seat myself to give you, as I promised, an
                                    account of the heroic and noble death of your brother Asa in the
                                    battle of July 1, 1863, at 
                                        Gettysburg
                                    .
                        First let me say as matter of history that the Iron Brigade, of
                                    which the 19th Indiana was a part, is shown by the official
                                    records of the War Department to have suffered the heaviest
                                    losses in killed and wounded of any brigade in the Union Army,
                                    and heavier losses than any brigade of the Confederate Army
                                    during that memorable battle.
                        The 19th Indiana of which your brother was the sergeant-major and
                                    of which I was the Lieut. Colonel, went into action on the
                                    morning of July 1st with 279 effective officers and men. Its
                                    losses in killed and seriously wounded were 156 and 54 who were
                                    slightly wounded and carried away as prisoners, making a total
                                    loss during the first day's battle of 210. Your brother
                                    was one of the killed, and as the circumstances of his death
                                    were peculiarly pathetic and heroic, I am glad before passing
                                    off the stage of action myself, and while the events of that day
                                    are fresh in my mind, to give you an account of Asa's
                                    bravery and death for you to preserve.
                        We were among the first of the advance infantry column, commanded
                                    by General John F. Reynolds of the 1st Corps, to engage the
                                    enemy upon the field north-west of the town of 
                                        Gettysburg
                                    . We had been on picket duty the night before, some
                                    miles in advance of the army, and near Great Round Top, and as
                                    we were the first troops of 
                                    the Union infantry, we found the citizens glad to see us and
                                    hospitable to a refreshing degree. In consequence we joined the
                                    column and took our place in the line of march with full
                                    haversacks and canteens and with well satisfied appetites. The
                                    regiment never went into action in such good spirits as it did
                                    that morning, and when the battlefield was reached the cheerful
                                    songs of the men and the sincerity with which they stripped for
                                    action betokened ill for any force of Confederates whom we might
                                    meet. None were more cheerful and hilarious, and none advanced
                                    to the charge that morning with more alacrity than did Asa.
                        We were formed in line of battle on the double quick, and your
                                    brother took his proper position upon the left of the regiment,
                                    and, under fire, placed the guides for the left wing as cooly as
                                    if on parade, and when the rush of the charge began was then
                                    assisting in keeping the line from disintegrating as we pushed
                                    forward over fences and across fields. A person who has not
                                    experienced the sensation, can little imagine the mixed emotions
                                    by which an officer responsible for the actions of his men is
                                    swayed in such a moment. His anxiety lest the fire of the enemy
                                    which his men cannot return, and the many obstacles which his
                                    line must encounter, may destroy the alignment and thus lose the
                                    momentum and break the face of his charge, and thus the precious
                                    lives entrusted to his care, which he sees strewn along the rear
                                    of the advancing line, be wasted; all these things are
                                    calculated to try his nerve and courage of the bravest officer.
                        It was under such circumstances as these, and in this his first
                                    engagement as an officer, that the splendid qualities of nerve
                                    and heroism which your brother displayed attracted the attention
                                    of his superior officers and convinced us that we had made no
                                    mistake in his promotion. He seemed to feel
                                    that our eyes were upon him, and his frequent reports of the
                                    condition of the line, our losses and the position of the enemy
                                    showed that he was alert and careful in the discharge of every
                                    duty.
                        Soon the strain of the charge was over, and at our first volley,
                                    the line in our front was broken and in full retreat down the
                                    slope to Willoughby's Run; the next hour was devoted to
                                    the capture and disarming of the 
                                        Tennessee
                                     regiment which, being in our front, surrendered to
                                    us as prisoners of war. The side arms of the field officers were
                                    handed to me, and I invested Asa with the sword and belt of the
                                    Lieutenant Colonel. (He had been serving without a sword up to
                                    this time.) The prisoners having been disposed of by a detail
                                    under command of the Adjutant and your brother, by turing them
                                    over to the cavalry force in the rear of our line these officers
                                    returned and under their charge the detail was engaged in
                                    disabling the rifles of the captured rebels. I presume it is no
                                    exaggeration to say that your brother, with the soldiers under
                                    him, destroyed at least 400 stands of arms within the space of
                                    an hour and a half. During this time the brigade was being
                                    reformed, the regiments assuming the various positions as
                                    assigned in what is known in history as McPherson's
                                    Woods.
                        We were now preparing to receive a charge from the division of A.
                                    P. Hill which was forming three lines deep in our front, and
                                    extending  beyond our left
                                    flank at least a half mile. Every man in the regiment seemed to
                                    appreciate the gravity of the situation, and none more so than
                                    your brother Asa.
                        Being upon the extreme left of the Union Line at the foot of the
                                    western slope of the above-mentioned woods, which terminated
                                    behind us at the crest of McPherson's ridge, and having
                                    in plain view the enormous flanking column away down beyond us
                                    and knowing that we should be completely enveloped thereby, we
                                    believed that a better position for defense than the one
                                    assigned us might be taken by the regiment at the top of the
                                    hill behind us where we might intrench our line and chose Asa as
                                    our messenger to communicate our views to General Meredith, our
                                    brigade commander. He, pleased with the clear statement of the
                                    situation made by Mr. Blanchard, sent him to the Division
                                    General's headquarters, and he delivered our message
                                    and that of General Meredith to General Wadsworth.
                        Immediately returning he brought us the command to hold the woods
                                    at all hazards and to hold the position assigned us as long as
                                    possible. The General remarked to him "that he regarded
                                    this piece of timber as the strongest position of the line and
                                    of the utmost importance," as it was in the nature of a
                                    redoubt upon our flank, and said "that he hoped it
                                    would be held." Your brother made the reply recorded in
                                    history: "General, if that is what you want, and the
                                    Iron Brigade can't hold it, where can you find troops
                                    who can?" The General replied: "Present my
                                    compliments to General Meredith and say to him that with the
                                    Iron Brigade in possession of McPherson's Woods I have
                                    no fear for our left flank."
                        Upon Asa's return and reporting to us what had passed
                                    between our commanding officers, we prepared ourselves to
                                    receive the terrible charge that was soon to strike us, and to
                                    hold the woods and the position assigned us, as long as men were
                                    left to do it. Soon the signal gun was fired and down across the
                                    slope in our front came three splendid lines of gray, our
                                    skirmishers retiring slowly as they advanced. Your brother was
                                    now sent out to the front to bring on Company B which had been
                                    deployed as skirmishers.
                        Every man was needed in line to meet the attack. Our line
                                    commanded perfectly the banks of the creek in our front. Every
                                    soldier was warned not to fire until the rebel line had reached
                                    the further bank, and cautioned also to waste no ammunition, but
                                    fire low. At our first volley the first line in our front
                                    disappeared from view, and while the gap was closing, time to
                                    load and prepare for the next line was given us. Not to weary
                                    you with the details of the next hour's engagement, it
                                    is sufficient to say that during that time our colors were shot
                                    down time and time again until all the color guard had been
                                    either killed or wounded; when, by your brother's
                                    request, he was put in special charge of the duty of keeping
                                    them afloat, and as fast as the bearers were felled he detailed
                                    others to take them up. Seeing the desperate situation he was in
                                    and the almost impossibility of getting men from the decimated
                                    ranks to discharge the fatal duty as fast as necessary, I went
                                    personally to his relief and, while he was securing another
                                    color-bearer held the flag myself long enough to meet the fate
                                    of all who  touched it that
                                    day. As I lay there with the staff in my hand your brother, his
                                    voice trembling with feeling, took the staff from my hand and
                                    giving it to a soldier he had detailed, assisted me back from
                                    the line a few feet and said: "Colonel, you
                                    shouldn't have done this. That was my duty. I shall
                                    never forgive myself for letting you touch that flag."
                                    He called to two slightly wounded soldiers and bade them get me
                                    out of the fire, and as he left he turned and smilingly said,
                                    "It's down again, Colonel. Now it's
                                    my turn." From where I lay I clearly saw him raise the
                                    flag. While he was holding it the order came for the line to
                                    retire to the top of the hill behind us, this it did slowly,
                                    forming line and frequently facing about to deliver volleys at
                                    the advancing enemy until the crest was reached. Here a
                                    determined stand was made and I was carried to the Seminary and
                                    lost sight of the individuals of the Regiment and their actions
                                    but could see the line as it gallantly withstood the terrific
                                    front and flank fire of the enemy. I was told by others who
                                    witnessed it that on this line, and not a hundred feet from the
                                    spot marked as the place where General Reynolds was killed, and
                                    immediately south of it, your brother, having seen that capture
                                    was imminent, had torn the flag from the staff and wrapped it
                                    around his body under his sword belt; and that while moving
                                    about, cheering and encouraging the men to stand fast, he
                                    received a musket ball in his groin, severing the artery and
                                    causing his almost immediate death.
                        Lieut. Macy and Lieut. Potts, who took the flag from his body,
                                    told me that it was stained with his life blood. Lieut. Macy
                                    carried the flag from this point the the rail pile on Seminary
                                    hill where the line was next reformed.
                        He was the last one at the side of your brother and laid his body
                                    where it would not be trampled upon by the advancing line of the
                                    enemy. No braver man fell that day in all the Union lines.
                                    Neither the regiment nor the brigade, nor yet the division,
                                    could furnish a man to fill his place with equal valor. If it
                                    was his fate to die in battle, no grander field nor greater
                                    battle, nor more decisive victory could his blood have bought.
                                    To you whom he loved so well he has left a name untarnished and
                                    a glorious record of patriotism and devotion to duty. To his
                                    comrades he left a noble example of soldierly heroism. Though of
                                    humble rank his services were unequalled and unsurpassed by any
                                    of his comrades. To this I gladly bear testimony, and can say
                                    truthfully that among the survivors of the 19th Indiana and the
                                    Iron Brigade, no name is more fondly cherished than that of the
                                    gallant boy who stained our flag with his life blood on that
                                    fateful July day at 
                                        Gettysburg
                                    .
                        His surviving comrades will keep the memory of Asa W. Blanchard
                                    green, and tell their children after them of his brave deeds and
                                    heroic death.
                        
                                    Trusting that this may be of some satisfaction to you
                                        and glad that I have the opportunity of performing this
                                        gracious task,
                                    I remain yours most respectfully,
                                    Wm. W. Dudlay, Brevet Brig. Gen.
                                        U.S.V. and late Lt. Col. 19th Ind. Vols.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               The Village at the End of the Road (Indiana Historical Society
                        Publications, XIII, No. 1). By Wylie J. Daniels. Indiana Historical
                    Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1938. Pp. 112, illustrated, seventy-five cents.
            It is natural for Wylie J. Daniels to be interested in early Indiana railroad
                    history. His father was connected with the early 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Crawfordsville
                     Railroad and he, himself, is secretary-treasurer of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Union Railway Company. The present monograph is an outgrowth of
                    papers presented at meetings of the Indiana Historical Society and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Literary Club. All who are interested in the Central and Southern
                    Indiana of the decade of 1843–1853 will be appreciative of
                    publication in the present and more extended form.
            Mr. Daniels has limited his field of interest. He has not sought to show the
                    details of the fortunes or misfortunes in financing, construction, or traffic
                    development of these pioneer lines. In his own words, his object has been to
                    give "the contemporary view of railroads by means of copious
                    quotations." His references are chiefly from the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Madison
                     newspapers of the times. The result is well worth the interest of
                    the general public. He has not only succeeded in capturing the mingled
                    enthusiasms, prejudices, and indifferences of the times in both serious
                    quotations and sprightly anecdotes, but also in impressing upon the reader the
                    significance of the struggle for trade that underlay the railway development.
            The narrative begins with a brief treatment of the difficulties of trade in the
                    turnpike period of 
                        Indianapolis
                     history. From this point the author moves to a consideration of the
                    public attitude toward the efforts to complete the famous 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad to the capital. After the completion of the road on
                    October 1, 1847, the papers commented again and again upon the resulting rise in
                    prices of farm produce and upon the increase in the pace of business activity
                    and in the number of mercantile firms. Editors announced that since the advent
                    of the railroad 
                        Indianapolis
                     had "transformed its every feature." Editorials
                    were written on the passing of pioneer ways and on the rival interests of 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the "Village at the 
                    End of the Road." As an example of the stimulating effect of the new
                    road and the feeder lines soon constructed to it, an interesting account is
                    given of the congestion on the road caused by the great quantities of hogs
                    offered for shipment to Ohio River packing centers. The
                    success of this pioneer road brought other projects into the news. Scarcely had
                    the road been opened to 
                        Indianapolis
                     when Page Chapman, editor of the Indiana Daily
                        Sentinel, predicted that, within ten years, connections would be made
                    with railroads to 
                  New York,
                            Cincinnati
               , and 
                        St. Louis
                    . The treatment then follows the development of a number of roads
                    radiating from 
                        Indianapolis
                     which acted as feeders of the 
                        Madison
                     road until its practical monopoly disappeared in 1853. Considerable
                    attention is paid to the rivalry of the Ohio River cities
                    and the consequent connection by rail of 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     with 
                        Indianapolis
                    . By 1853 
                        Indianapolis
                     was also connected with the East by the Bellefontaine road through
                    Anderson and 
                        Muncie
                     and by the Indiana Central through 
                        Richmond
                     to 
                        Columbus
                    . It is interesting that in 1850 a 
                        Cincinnati
                     merchant in a letter urging liberal aid and support to an 
                        Indianapolis
                    -
                        Cincinnati
                     line expressed fear that the completion of these eastern lines
                    might draw Indiana traffic towards 
                        New York
                     rather than towards 
                        New Orleans
                    . No evidence is cited of the appearance of this
                    diversion—a phenomenon which doubtless became significant slightly
                    after the period covered by Mr. Daniels. Short accounts of the location and
                    building of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Union Station and of the equipment and speed of these early roads
                    complete the work.
            The main outlines of Central and Southern Indiana railroad development have, of
                    course, been presented in standard histories and in several masters'
                    theses. Mr. Daniels has enriched and enlivened the subject. It is a pleasure to
                    recommend his contribution.
            JOSEPH A. BATCHELOR.
         
         
            
               The First Hundred Years of 
                            Lake County
                        . By Sam B. Woods. Published Privately, 1938. Pp. 418,
                    illustrated. (Copies may be obtained from the author by writing to him at
                    Griffith, Indiana.)
            This volume is a compilation of local newspaper articles rather than a history,
                    though there is a brief sketch of Lake 
                    County's development which runs to thirteen pages. There are two
                    letters of 1862 written by Edmund B. Woods, a Civil War recruit, to his father,
                    Bartlett Woods, and a return letter. Charles Woods, an uncle of Edmund B., also
                    wrote a letter to the young soldier. There are a few articles that were
                    published in a local newspaper from the pen of Bartlett Woods. Most of the book
                    is filled up with articles by Sam B. Woods that were published in a newspaper of
                    his County. The articles range from good to indifferent or poor, but were, on
                    the whole, worth publishing when they were written. The variety of subjects is
                    very wide. The reading of the articles collected and reprinted will give
                    pleasure to many old people. The compiler (and author of most of the articles)
                    is now over eighty years of age. He has a just pride in his accomplishment, and
                    no doubt many persons interested in 
                        Lake County
                     in the period covered by the articles will greatly appreciate the
                    book.
            W.O.L.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Pennsylvania
                         Iron Manufacture in the Eighteenth Century is a monograph
                    by Arthur Cecil Bining, which was published a few weeks ago by the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Historical Commission at 
                        Harrisburg
                    . The little book of two hundred twenty-seven pages is thoroughly
                    documented, and is, in fact, a well-written, scholarly study of early iron
                    production in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . This "important contribution to the economic history of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and the 
                        United States
                    " will serve many students, and it should reach the shelves
                    of most of the libraries of the 
                        United States
                    . The attractiveness of the volume is enhanced by the excellent
                    illustrations.
            
               An American Farmer's Family Correspondence with 
                            Scotland
                        , is the title of a pamphlet, edited with notes by David
                    Buchan Morris, Town Clerk of Stirling, 
                        Scotland
                    . This brief publication of thirty-five pages was printed last year
                    by A. Learmonth and Son of Stirling. There are twelve letters
                    (1802–1834) in the collection some written by members of the Pollock
                    family in 
                        New York
                     and some written by other members of the family in 
                        Scotland
                    . In the Indiana Magazine of History (March,
                    1935), XXXI, 50–66, thirteen Pollock family letters were published.
                    These were for the period 1840–1860, and seven of them were written
                    by Alexander  Pollock who lived in Hendricks
                    County, Indiana. The Pollock letters reprinted by the Indiana
                        Magazine of History were furnished by Prof. Richard L. Power of St.
                    Lawrence University, Canton, 
                        New York
                    , who has also kindly sent in the pamphlet containing the earlier
                    correspondence.
            
               Preliminary Notes on the Caddoan Family, by Paul Weer, is No.
                    4, of Volume I, in the "Prehistory Series" of the Indiana
                    Historical Society. Copies may be obtained, while they last, from the Indiana
                    Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This excellent short study of the Caddoan Family will be
                    appreciated by all who are interested in Indian history.
            The 
                        Knox
                     College Library of Galesbury, 
                        Illinois
                    , has issued a list of items recently added to the Finley Collection
                    of the History and Romance of the Northwest. This miscellaneous collection of
                    books was gathered together and presented to the Library by Edward 
                        Caldwell
                     of 
                        New York
                     City.
            The following list of books recently received will be reviewed in the December
                    issue of the Indiana Magazine of History: Early Western 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , by Russell J. Ferguson; Isaac 
                            Franklin
                        , Slave Trader and Planter of the Old South, by Wendell H.
                    Stephenson; Our First Great West, by Temple Bodley; The Early Writings of Frederick J. Turner ("A list of
                    all His Works," compiled by Everett E. Edwards, and an Introduction,
                    "Turner's Formative Period," by Fulmer Mood, are
                    included).
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            A TRANSITION PERIOD,
                        1907–1911*
            
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
            Industrial developments of the last quarter of the nineteenth century presented
                    new problems that were alarming to many of the leaders and thinkers of the time.
                    Large corporations, with the 
                        United States
                     Steel Corporation at the head of the list, were characteristic of
                    the opening period of the twentieth century. The new prosperity was accompanied
                    by rising prices for the necessaries and common comforts of life. The high cost
                    of living became a matter of general concern and a regular topic of conversation
                    and newspaper comment. The World War years and after were ahead, and, not
                    knowing about what was to come, the people felt that conditions had become
                    complex indeed.
            By the year 1907, when a short, severe panic came, the age of the automobile and
                    the moving picture was being ushered in. In the summer of that year, one could
                    drive over the roads of an agricultural county of Indiana throughout the season
                    with a possibility of not meeting either of the two cars owned and operated
                    within the limits of the county. It was possible to find a moving picture
                    entertainment, the admission fee being five or ten cents, occasionally more, but
                    the program was made up of several short features.1 The age
                    of the motor-car and cinema was just beyond, but it was impossible to conjecture
                    how rapid would be the expansion of these industries in the five-year period
                    beginning with 1907. The increase in the number of automobiles and in the number
                    of moving-picture theaters was phenomenal in this half-decade, though but a slow
                    beginning had marked the preceding years.2
            
            I gave little thought to the moving picture shows provided for the entertainment
                    of the public in the experimental years, but I was greatly interested in motor
                    cars. I was doubtful whether I should ever own or drive one, but the problem
                    created by horseless vehicles for the transportation 
                  
                     * This autobiography was begun in the
                            March issue of 1936, and further installments have appeared in each
                            quarterly issue since.
                  
                     1 My cash account indicates that I attended a
                            "moving picture show" at 
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     , on July 12, 1907 (15 cents),
                            and again July 19 (10 cents). I remember nothing about either one.
                  
                     2 The Readers' Guide to
                                Periodical Literature, 1905–1909, lists a large
                            number of articles on the automobile. Fewer articles dealing with moving
                            pictures appeared in those years, though they were common.
               
                     of passengers were fascinating. I remember
                    how seriously the question, whether the motive power of the automobile should be
                    furnished by a steam engine, a gasoline engine, or an electric motor, was
                    discussed. One day in 1908, as I was riding from 
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               , to 
                        Chicago
                     on a Northwestern train, I saw a tiller of the soil seated high on
                    the spring-seat of a farm-wagon, driving a good team, and towing a
                    "white steamer" along a road towards a small city. This was
                    not an uncommon sight in those days. Indeed it was something to joke about and
                    may were the remarks indulged in at the expense of the unfortunate motorist who
                    found himself stranded on a country road at the mercy of a farmer and his team.
                    An intelligent gentleman who was sharing a seat with me at the time launched
                    into a discussion of cars, and expressed his strong conviction that only
                    motor-cars propelled by steam would stand the test. The steam-car was easily the
                    car of the future, he declared, and it would not be long until we would see no
                    others. I was not convinced, but conceded that my temporary acquaintance might
                    be correct. It was but a short time after this, however, until the gasoline
                    motor proved its superiority, if it had not already done so.
            There were many mechanical and other problems that arose in connection with the
                    automobile, but the one that most concerned the general public
                    was—"Who can afford to own cars for personal and family
                    use?" Articles appeared in leading magazines from time to time dealing
                    with this very natural query. The general view was that the masses of the people
                    would have to depend on horses or walk when short distances were involved, and
                    ride passenger trains when making longer trips for many years to come.3 As cars became cheaper and more dependable, farmers and
                    laborers began to buy freely, and the first tremendous increase in the purchase
                    of cars by common people took place from 1907 to 1912.4 As
                    time went on and dealers took in more and more old cars in part payment for new
                    ones, the growth of 
                  
                     3 Articles dealing with the expense of buying and
                            keeping up an automobile included the following: A. Sangree,
                            "The Poor Man and the Motor Car," Harper's Weekly, Jan. 13, 1906; E. Wood, "Do
                            I Want an Automobile?" Everybody's
                                Magazine, Jan., 1906; H. B. Haines, "Automobiles for
                            Everybody," World's Work, Mar.,
                            1906; H. B. Haines, "The Automobile and the Average
                            Man," Review of Reviews, Jan., 1907; D. A.
                            Willey, "Who Can Afford an Automobile?" Good Housekeeping, May, 1907.
                  
                     4 An advertisement in Harpers
                            Weekly for Aug. 27, 1907, gives an illustration of a Ford Roadster,
                            at $600, with the slogan, "Watch the
                                Fords Go By," printed in italics above the
                        picture.
               
                     the used-car business made it almost
                    unanimous in regard to the ownership of automobiles.
            Rapid changes in the old order were accompanied by what were then regarded as
                    deep stirrings of the political waters. Before the "menace" of
                    Bryanism was fully overcome, a leader of the party of safety and sanity was
                    playing a "dangerous" role. Placed in the vice-presidency in
                    order that he might not again be heard from, Col. Theodore Roosevelt was
                    suddenly thrust into the White House by the hand of fate. By 1904, he was looked
                    upon as a vigorous reformer. Conservative Democrats took their turn in that
                    year, and, with Judge 
                        Alton
                     B. Parker as their candidate, staged a rather feeble contest with
                    the supporters of the champion of the "square deal". Regular
                    Republicans gave their votes to the man with the "big stick",
                    though many of them cast their ballots with grave misgivings. In the Middle West
                    and more especially in the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West, former Populists and Bryan Democrats rallied to the support
                    of Colonel Roosevelt. I saw nothing to fear and much to admire in the President
                    and marked my ballot for him on election day of 1904 with considerable
                    enthusiasm. I was pleased with his activities and leadership throughout his
                    second term, and even voted for William Howard Taft on his recommendation in
                    1908. The changes wrought while the first Roosevelt was in the White House do
                    not seem startling or fundamental in retrospect, but it must be remembered that
                    he was the pioneer President in the attempt to eliminate some of the injustices
                    that had come with great industrial changes. It required courage and a
                    willingness to fight strenuously to accomplish a little. I now believe that the
                    redoutable Colonel was more fully absorbed in the fighting than he was in the
                    getting of results.
            For several years I heard things about the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     that aroused my interest. When at last some of the obstacles that
                    blocked my way were eliminated, I went to 
                        Madison
                     and enrolled for the summer session of 1907. Founded less than
                    sixty years earlier, the University now boasted an enrollment of about 4,000
                    students during the regular year. The summer school, already widely known, drew
                    graduate students from many states. The departments of history, political
                    economy, and political science stood out prominently, as did the College of
                    Agriculture. The Library of  the 
                        Wisconsin
                     State Historical Society and the University Library were both
                    housed in the same splendid building. It was almost imposible to believe that
                    such a remarkable library as that of the Historical Society could have been
                    built up in a state so young in such an incredibly brief period. Indeed, no
                    American University, with comparable resources, has ever equaled the
                    achievements of the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     in the twenty years extending from 1887 to 1907, and probably none
                    ever will.
            The history department was not extensive. The work of the summer session of 1907
                    was carried by five teachers of professorial rank and one instructor, and it
                    required but nine teachers to carry all the history courses that were offered
                    during either semester of the year 1907–1908. Nevertheless, the
                    department was a great department5 and the University as a
                    whole was a great institution in the finest sense of the term under the
                    presidency of Charles R. 
                        Van
                    -Hise.
            The summer of 1907 was a pleasant one in 
                        Madison
                    , and every day was one to be appreciated. I enrolled in a seminar with Dr. Turner and also in his course in the
                    "History of the West".6 He was at his best
                    in this period of his enviable career, and, though one says nothing new when
                    giving him praise, I very soon became a champion of this unusual student of
                    American history. It was at once apparent that he was first of all a
                    student—a modest man who was anxious to learn whatever he could from
                    any source at any time. I think he guided his students mainly by working along
                    as one of them. In the course in western history, I prepared a short paper on 
                        Kansas
                     in the period from 1888 to 1898. While working on this report and
                    on the topic assigned to me as a member of the seminar group,
                    "The Early Period of the Whig Party in the Southern Seaboard
                    States," I learned something of resources of the splendid State
                    Historical Society Library.
            While gathering material on the Whig Party in the older southern states I became
                    interested in the party activities of Calhoun, and decided to prepare a
                    master's thesis on his party relationships. This study, I completed in
                    the summer of 1908 under the title, "The Party Relations of John C.
                        
                  
                     5 Fulmer Mood, "Turner's
                            Formative Period," is an able essay recently published as the
                            "Introduction" to a volume. The Early
                                Writings of Frederick 
                                    Jackson
                                 Turner, brought out by the University of 
                                Wisconsin
                             Press, 
                                Madison
                            .
                  
                     6 One of the members of Dr. Turner's seminar group of the summer of 1907 was Prof. P. Orman
                            Ray, now of the University of 
                                California
                            .
               
                     Calhoun." It was not an exhaustive
                    piece of work, but the labor performed was worth much to me. I have since
                    supervised the preparation of a good many master's theses, and I think
                    the great value of the performance, in almost every instance, was what accrued
                    to the student. I was never willing to publish my thesis, but because of my
                    effort to understand Calhoun thirty years ago and since, I have not been
                    satisfied with any biography of the 
                        South Carolina
                     leader that has so far been published.
            Besides my work with Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner in the short summer session of 1907, I carried a course with
                    Richard T. Ely on "Socialism" and followed it up in the summer
                    of 1908, with a course on the "Distribution of Wealth." Dr.
                    Ely was then a liberal student of economics and one of the able and noted men of
                    the University. I had lived long enough to be somewhat disturbed about the
                    division of the social product, and I went into the classes of Dr. Ely with an
                    open mind hoping to be enlightened. He was entirely fair in his approach, and he
                    dealt frankly with his subject and his students. No very definite conclusions
                    were reached, but, since the same is still true, one can not find fault with
                    what was said by a professor of economics a generation ago. A student under Dr.
                    Ely when he was nearing the climax of his career could not easily forget him.
                    His face was round and pink and very boyish in appearance. His voice was soft
                    and one attending his lectures had to listen closely to catch his words. When
                    deeply interested, he did not become more vigorous, but turned his head
                    sidewise, lowered his voice, and communed with himself almost as if no class
                    were present.
            At the end of the fall semester of the year 1907–1908, I gave up my
                    place in the 
                        Elkhart
                     High School, and, after spending about a month at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     completing a reading course which I had undertaken to do in absentia, I enrolled for the second semester of the year
                    1907–1908. Remaining for the summer session of 1908, I was granted
                    the A.M. degree in the fall of that year. During the semester ending in June,
                    1908, I had the privilege of taking a course in the history of the South with
                    Dr. Ulrich B. Phillips,7 and a 
                  
                     7 Phillips was a charming young southerner from 
                                Georgia
                             who had recently completed the requirements for a
                            doctor's degree at 
                                Columbia
                             University. Born in 1877, he was in his thirty-first year
                            when I was in his class at 
                                Wisconsin
                            .
               
                    
                    seminar with Dr. Edward A. Ross.8 In the
                    catalogue, the subject of this new seminar was listed as a
                    "Seminary in Special Criminology," but my recollection is that
                    Professor Ross at first called it a "Seminary in Modern Sin."
                    As a preliminary to the course, the members of the group read a little book just
                    off the press with the title, Sin and Society, which sold for
                    one dollar per copy. The catalogue described the course very well in five lines:
                    "A study of the nature, extent, varieties, and effects of contemporary
                    wrong doing, especially in politics and business, and an inquiry as to how far
                    the phenomena may be explained by changes in American life and
                    society."
            The very atmosphere of the University was stimulating and wholesome. So many of
                    the faculty were right out on the firing line in the various
                    fields—searching for facts, groping for answers to all sorts of new
                    questions, and hopefully believing that man could make over the out-of-joint
                    world that had recently seen so many changes—that it would have been
                    well-nigh impossible for one not to get caught in the current. I was convinced
                    then, as I am still, that there was no place where it was better for me to be
                    than at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     at that time.
            It was in the summer of 1908 while I was finishing my master's thesis
                    that I took my second course with Dr. Ely. I had just enough work with Professor
                    Dana Carleton Munro to observe his passion for the truth and his devotion to the
                    primary sources. Dr. Herman V. Ames of the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , who served as a visiting professor at 
                        Wisconsin
                     for the summer session of 1908, gave a course on the
                    "Political and Constitutional History of the 
                        United States
                    , 1786–1837." As a student in his class, I was
                    privileged to become well acquainted with Dr. Ames, especially since he read my
                    thesis. Dr. Phillips likewise read my thesis, but neither he nor Dr. Ames
                    directed my work in anyway. Dr. Turner kindly conferred with me a few times
                    while the thesis was under way, though he was not on duty during 
                  
                     8 In addition to these courses with Phillips and
                            Ross, I carried a course with Dr. Alfred L. P. Dennis, "
                                England
                             Under the Stuarts, and a seminar with Dr.
                            Carl Russell Fish in the period of political reconstruction in the
                            South. Dr. Dennis was a very competent student who made thorough
                            preparation for each lecture. He was deeply interested in the political
                            factors that determine historical development but cared little for the
                            economic factors. In fact, he declared that the new school of historians
                            would have a hard time to demonstrate that the history of the Stuart
                            period was appreciably influenced by economic forces. Dr. Fish was
                            unusually kind to his students, and was always genial and enthusiastic.
                            His views of political reconstruction were in general harmony with those
                            of Prof. William A. Dunning of 
                                Columbia
                            . I had a strong desire to do some work with Prof. Paul S.
                            Reinsch, but he was on leave in the Far East during my short period at 
                                Wisconsin
                            .
               
                     the spring semester or the summer session
                    of 1908.
            I went to the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     mainly because of what I had heard of Professor Turner. When I sat
                    at his feet in the summer of 1907, and later during the year
                    1911–1912 at 
                        Harvard
                    , no matter what geographic belt was under consideration there was
                    always a search for facts relative to the period of colonization of that area.
                    There was emphasis on the "recurrence of the process of evolution in
                    each Western area reached in the process of expansion," and there was a
                    close adherence to the notion expressed in the second paragraph of "The
                    Significance of the Frontier in American History," that 
                        American development has exhibited not merely an advance along a single
                            line but a return to primitive conditions on a continually advancing
                            frontier line, and a new development for that area. American social
                            development has been continually beginning over again on the frontier.
                            This perennial rebirth, this fluidity of American life, this expansion
                            westward with its new opportunities, its continuous touch with the
                            simplicity of primitive society, furnish the forces dominating American
                            character. …
                    
            
            The fundamental point in Professor Turner's teaching was that in each
                    successive frontier area there was a new establishment of democracy which
                    reacted on the older areas, each of which had earlier passed through the pioneer
                    stage. He often made a further statement in his lectures, the purport of which
                    was that, with the disappearance of the frontier, it would be more and more
                    necessary for the American people to preserve democracy through legislation.
                    This would include the regulation of the activities of capitalists who hoped to
                    retain as much freedom of action as it was customary for men to exercise in the
                    period when the frontier advanced across the country. He frequently mentioned
                    James J. Hill and Edward H. Harriman as examples of business leaders who had
                    taken advantage of the lack of government regulation to carry through their
                    plans in an age that came fast on the heels of the pioneer period.
            I cut the bridges behind me when I left 
                        Elkhart
                    , indulging a hope that I might find a job by the time I should
                    complete the requirements for a master's degree. Early in the spring of
                    1908, Dr. Ross sought me out and introduced me to an educator by the name of
                    Wilson who was president of the State Normal School at Ellensburg, 
                        Washington
                    . President Wilson was seeking a man to teach history in his
                    institution and seemed to look upon me with favor.  After his return to Ellensburg, he wrote me that
                    the finances of the school were in a temporary tangle. Because of other
                    developments that come in rapid succession, I never learned what might have been
                    the outcome at Ellensburg. I soon received a letter from Dr. James A. Woodburn
                    of Indiana University, my staunch supporter, in season and out, from the day
                    that I first entered one of his classes, inquiring whether I would be interested
                    in the new position of critic teacher of history in the 
                        Bloomington
                     High school which involved the supervision of practice teaching to
                    be done by history majors of the University who were preparing to teach. The
                    salary suggested was a fair one for that period and it seemed to me that there
                    would be a chance to do a useful work, hence my response was a friendly one. I
                    don't deny that the need of a job influenced me. The Superintendent of
                    the 
                        Bloomington
                     schools at the time was the man who has for a number of years
                    served as the head of the School of Education of Indiana University, Dean H.
                    Lester Smith. It was not long until I received notice that I had been appointed
                    to serve in the dual capacity of teacher of history and critic.
            Just ahead of this welcome information from Professor Woodburn, there came a
                    letter from President W. W. Parsons stating that another teacher of history was
                    to be added to the Normal School faculty. Would I care to be considered? I wrote
                    to both Dr. Woodburn and President Parsons, stating to each what I had heard
                    from the other. I offered to accept the 
                        Bloomington
                     position unelss there should be a willingness on the part of the
                    authorities to await the outcome at 
                        Terre Haute
                    . I was generously granted a respite and so informed President
                    Parsons. In about a week, I received word that I had been, appointed assistant
                    professor of history in the Indiana State Normal School, now Indiana State
                    Teachers College.9 In September of 1908, thirty years ago, I
                    began my work as a teacher of history in one of the state educational
                    institutions of Indiana. I remained with the Normal School for ten years, served
                    two years at the Ball State Teachers College (then, the Eastern Division of the
                    Indiana State Normal School), and have now 
                  
                     9 Until 1911, the summer session was a
                            half-quarter, and the teaching year was forty-two weeks, with the salary
                            paid in twelve installments. For the first ten months, I received
                            $125 per month. Then (June, 1909), I was advanced to
                            $140 per month ($1680 per year), the regular
                            salary of an assistant professor. When the summer session was extended
                            to twelve weeks in 1911, the salary of an assistant professor was raised
                            to $161 per month, or $1,932 for the year.
               
                     completed eighteen years at Indiana
                    University.
            During the three years from September, 1908, to September, 1911, I taught both
                    American and European History. In short, I had a sort of settee instead of a
                    chair, as I attempted to give from time to time courses in Greek, Roman,
                    Medieval, Modern and English history while devoting the other half of my time to
                    American history. It was impossible not to learn something with such a
                    comprehensive program, though it was difficult to master any field. College
                    instructors cannot all be provided with the opportunity to teach a narrow range
                    of courses, but whenever I hear of a college teacher who is asked to ramble all
                    over the field of history from Adam till now, I not only sympathize with the
                    teacher but with the institution as well. At the end of three years, I obtained
                    a leave of absence in order to do graduate work at 
                        Harvard
                     University during the year 1911–1912.
            When I returned to 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1908 to teach in the Normal School, from which I had been
                    graduated twelve years earlier, I found that the institution had changed much in
                    several ways, but very little in other respects. The older buildings had
                    deteriorated somewhat, while the only building added to the physical plant since
                    1896, the Training School, was constructed of cheap looking brick. In the midst
                    of noise and dirt, without a campus, and surrounded by a residence district that
                    was receding in tone, the outward conditions were not inspiring. Between 1908
                    and 1917, several new buildings were added to the plant, greatly improving the
                    facilities of the school.10 Prior to the launching of the
                    building program of those years, there was a moment when it would have been
                    comparatively inexpensive to move the institution to a site on the eastern,
                    northern or southern edge of the city. This desirable change was not made, at
                    the opportune time and the expansion of the plant anchored the school to the
                    location originally chosen.
            A college course had recently been added to the curriculum which was under the
                    management of a College Course Committee. The chairman of this Committee, who
                    occupied 
                  
                     10 In this period, the Manual Arts Building, the
                            Library Building and the Science Building were constructed. Since the
                            World War and especially since 1933, a new and extensive building
                            program has been carried out, and successful attempts have been made to
                            extend and beautify the grounds of the Indiana State Teachers College. I
                            have been anxious for years to see the old, central structure torn down
                            and rebuilt. This much to be desired improvement has not yet been
                            undertaken. However, I hope to live long enough to see a new building
                            replace the old one which constituted the entire plant when I entered
                            the Normal School as a student forty-seven years ago last
                        January.
               
                     a strategic position, was Prof. Frank Smith
                    Bogardus. He was a forceful man who had come to the Normal School in 1904 as a
                    teacher of European history. He was strongly backed by a group made up of most
                    of the newer members of the faculty and a few of the older men. The members of
                    this group, who constituted a quiet determined element, worked steadily to lift
                    the work of the institution to a higher plane of scholarship. They exerted a
                    deep influence from 1907 to 1917. I was happy to join this element, and did
                    whatever I could to help it carry on effectively.
            The annals of the poor are short and simple, and I need not tell much of the life
                    of my family and self during the three uneventful years that elapsed before we
                    went to 
                  Cambridge, Massachusetts
               , in 1911. As a
                    new member of the faculty earning my spurs, I had little to do save teach my
                    classes. Though there were certain handicaps, I worked steadily on each field as
                    I taught it, and made a supreme effort to stimulate my students to accomplish
                    something worth while. I knew that whatever the nature of my opportunity it was
                    the best that had ever come to me, and I struggled to make the most of it.
            As an accompaniment of my real work, I learned in my first three years of college
                    teaching some things that I have verified in the twenty-seven years that I have
                    passed through since. One was that the faculty of any college is quite certain
                    to contain persons that have no real education no matter what institutions they
                    may have attended or what degrees they may have obtained. The school that has a
                    faculty with a majority of keen-minded, truth seeking, intellectually honest
                    professors is to be deeply congratulated. There are very apt to be
                    reactionaries, "stuffed-shirts," and snobs on any faculty,
                    along with men and women who are entitled to rank with the noblest of the earth.
                    In between, there is always the general body of dependable members, not
                    brilliant but competent and sane, who can not be dispensed with by any
                    institution. How a professor trained for his work and supposed to be an earnest
                    seeker after the truth can be a confirmed reactionary in relation to any line of
                    human activity is beyond my comprehension, but such there are. I fully believe
                    that most faculties are kept above the water-line by less than ten per cent of
                    the members, and that this portion does not, as a rule, draw one tenth of the
                    total salary outlay.
            
            Taking it by and large, a faculty is very much like any other group of trained
                    persons—at least the grades of intelligence are about the same. In
                    one thing, a faculty outclasses almost any other professional
                    group—that is, in rugged individualism. I say this in spite of the
                    dullness which characterizes most faculty meetings. I must add that, the
                    wide-spread notion that the persons who make up a faculty are too dumb in regard
                    to other things than teaching to come in out of the rain unless some lawyer,
                    banker, manufacturer or merchant is at hand to suggest the wisdom of such a
                    move, is false. In the matter of taking care of themselves, professors are, I
                    feel, no whit worse off in ability than any other group. In fact, I am convinced
                    by long observation that most professors can go farther on a modest income than
                    can most lawyers, bankers, manufacturers or merchants. Indeed, these other
                    classes have shaped things so that this is true from sheer necessity.
            Though my wife taught successfully for a period in 
                        Elkhart
                    , she said goodbye to the schoolroom when we left that city. Life
                    moved pleasantly for her in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and she was active along several congenial lines. Our daughter,
                    Mary Bernice, reached the age of six in the summer of 1911. She was a
                    kindergarten pupil during the second semester of the preceding year, and spent
                    her first regular year in a public school of 
                  Cambridge, Massachusetts
               . We were tempted to begin the buying of
                    a home soon after we took up life in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , but it seemed best to wait until after I should find the
                    opportunity to do further graduate work. I knew college men who had placed
                    themselves under a fatal handicap by buying a home. I felt that I must commit no
                    such error, and Mrs. Lynch agreed with me.
            I taught for twelve weeks during the summer of 1911, after which we stored our
                    household effects and prepared to go East for a year. After recreating for a
                    brief time in 
                        Carroll County
                    , where we visited the home folks, we went to 
                        Logansport
                     to take a 
                        Wabash
                     train for 
                        Buffalo
                     in the afternoon of September nineteenth. We spent the twentieth, a
                    very beautiful day, at 
                        Niagara Falls
                    , and left on a 
                        Boston
                     train that evening. We reached 
                        Cambridge
                     at about ten o'clock the following morning. About three
                    days later, we were installed in an apartment at No. 47 Langdon Street. 
                        Cambridge
                     Commons was not far away and beyond that was the 
                        Harvard
                     Yard. Mary was ready to enter a nearby  grade school (Peabody School) and, incidentally, to
                    learn unconsciously to speak English words as they are spoken by teachers and
                    children in 
                        Cambridge
                    ; and Mrs. Lynch was ready to enjoy trips to 
                        Boston
                     to shop at Filene's, or White's, or in other big
                    stores, to attend 
                        Boston
                     plays and concerts, and visit historic places. I was ready to put
                    in more hours of work in an academic year than I had ever done before in my
                    life, as a graduate student in 
                        Harvard
                     University.11
            
            
               
                  11 This autobiographical sketch will be continued in
                        the issues of September and December of this year.
            
         
         
            
               Contributors to this issue: Dr. Daniel S. Robinson is professor
                    of philosophy and head of the department at Indiana University. Edgar F. Kiser,
                    M.D., is professor of medicine and lecturer in medical history at the Indiana
                    University School of Medicine in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Middleton Robertson lives at Deputy, Indiana. Julie LeClerc 
                        Knox
                    , formerly teacher of Latin in the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     High School, now lives in 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana. 
                        Milton
                     Rubincam, whose wife is a granddaughter of David M. Parry, resides
                    in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. Florence Goold (Mrs. H. T.) Watts of 
                        Vincennes
                     is much interested in the early history of that city. Norma Fuller
                    (Mrs. G. T.) Hawkins of 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., is a niece of Sergeant-Major Blanchard who lost his life at 
                        Gettysburg
                    . Joseph A. Batchelor is an instructor at Indiana University in the
                    department of economics.
         
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications
                    listed below. The Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different
                    parts of the country are in need of copies of the issues mentioned in order to
                    complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above the regular rates will
                    be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications may write to the Indiana, Magazine of History.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more
                    copies of the following numbers, especially those marked with asterisks:
            
               
                  *Volume I, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept.,
                        Dec., 1905). 
               Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
               
                  *Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June,
                        Sept., Dec., 1907). 
               Volume VII, 4 (Dec., 1911).
               
                  *Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June,
                        Sept., Dec., 1912).
               
                  *Volume IX, 1, (March, 1913).
               
                  *Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
               
                  *Volume XVII, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1921).
               Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
               Volume XXII, 1, 4 (March, Dec., 1926).
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries
                    or individuals who may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can
                    be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914
                    to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four dollars per volume. Issues
                    from 1905–1913, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold at one
                    dollar and a half per number.
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its
                    files. Anyone having any of these publications will confer a great favor by
                    writing to W.A. Alexander, Librarian of Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
                    The Indiana Alumnus
                
            
               Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
               Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue. The University needs the
                    following to fill out the files.
            1832–1833. Wanted 3 copies.
            1833–1834. Wanted 3 copies.
            1834–1835. Wanted 3 copies.
            1836–1837. Wanted 2 copies.
            1837–1838. Wanted 2 copies.
            1839–1840. Wanted 2 copies.
            1840–1841. Wanted 2 copies.
            1843–1844. Wanted 2 copies.
            1849–1850. Wanted 2 copies.
            1853–1854. Wanted 2 copies.
            
               The Indiana School Journal. Wanted: Volume XXXVII (1892) and
                    Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               Indiana Law Journal. Wanted: Vol. I, No. 1; Vol. II, Nos. 2, 3,
                    4, 5, 6; Vol. III, Nos. 1, 5, 6. The desired copies were published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     during 1898–1899.
            In 1930, The Indiana Magazine of History published a General Index for the first twenty-five volumes
                    (1905–1929). The Index was compiled by Dorothy Riker of the Indiana
                    Historical Bureau. Every library and every individual possessing a file of the
                        Magazine for the period covered by the General Index, or for any considerable portion of the period, should
                    have a copy. It is still possible to obtain copies at $1.00 each.
                    Send orders to the Indiana Magazine of History,
                    
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of
                    History may be obtained by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be
                    furnished on request and an order placed for as many reprints of any articles as
                    may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are
                    desired is published.
         
         
         
         
         
            The Hardy Family
            MARION D. AND RUTH
                    V. WESTON
            
            Thomas Hardy, brother of John Hardy of 
                        Boston
                    , came to America from 
                        England
                     with Governor Winthrop in 1630. He was one of the twelve founding
                    the town of Ipswich, Mass. He built the first frame house there in 1634. Later
                    he moved to Rowley and purchased one thousand acres of land along the Merrimac
                    river, comprising for the most part what is now known as Groveland, but which,
                    at the time Thomas Hardy made his purchase, belonged to the Rowley settlement,
                    formerly known as the Rogers Plantation. He settled on this large tract of land
                    about 1662, and the annual meeting of the Hardy Family Association, August 21,
                    1937, commemorated the two hundred seventy-fifth anniversary of this event.
            The Second Congregational Church of Groveland was host to the Hardy Family
                    Association and brought members of the Hardy Family from all parts of the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                    . In June, 1726, Daniel Hardy, a grandson of Thomas, called the
                    first meeting of the "second" or "east"
                    parish, which was set apart from the Bradford parish, of which Thomas Hardy and
                    his wife were charter members, for the purpose of making plans for building a
                    meeting house; the result was that in 1727 the new parish, now the Groveland
                    Second Congregational church, was organized. Of the first one hundred one
                    members, thirty-three were members of the Hardy Family. The year 1937 marked the
                    two hundred tenth anniversary of the founding of this church. It is said that
                    more of the Hardy name claim descent from Thomas Hardy of Groveland than from
                    any other early settler of that name. A number of descendants still live at
                    Groveland and at nearby 
                        Georgetown
                    . Our grandmother, Caroline Matilda Hardy, married Flint Weston and
                    lived in 
                  Georgetown, Massachusetts
               , but her
                    parents, four brothers, and a sister, more than a hundred years ago, left their
                    home on King Street, 
                        Georgetown
                    , to found new homes on the banks of the Ohio
                    river, settling in 
                        Kentucky
                     and southern Indiana.
            During July of 1937, a motor trip of more than 3,000 miles included a visit to
                    the Great Lakes Exposition at 
                        Cleveland
                    , attendance at the annual convention of the National Education
                    Association at 
                        Detroit
                    , and the devotion of some  time
                    to genealogical research in Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    . In 1817, Nathaniel Hardy, oldest of the four brothers and the
                    pioneer emigrant of the family, took the journey alone on horseback, carrying
                    with him his beloved bass viol. Residing for a few years in Indiana, he later
                    made 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , his permanent
                    home. There he became a very prosperous merchant. Descendants of this great
                    uncle were visited in 
                        Louisville
                     and Anchorage, 
                        Kentucky
                    , by the writers.
            Descendants of another great uncle, Bartlett Hardy, were traced to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Near 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, in a family burial plot on the Hardy farm four miles west
                    of town, was found the site of the graves of our great grandparents, Joseph and
                    Lucretia Hardy; perhaps others of the family were buried there, too, but only
                    one inscription could be read—"Ruth B.
                    Sawyer—Wife of Dr. Niles Hardy—Died Oct. 22,
                    1854." Deeds for the Hardy farm were found at the Court House in 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, showing that this land was sold in 1854 to Thomas and
                    Alfred Trueblood. In the Clerk's office of 
                        Washington
                     County in Book A, page 559, is the will of Joseph Hardy, dated July
                    1, 1842, and probated July 14, 1847.
            Nathaniel Hardy was born on May 24, 1795, at Bradford, and was the first of the
                    Hardy family to come West as has been stated. He met Samuel Peck from Rehoboth, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , and they became good friends. Samuel Peck was engaded to Melinda
                    Hyde, who was born Nov. 4, 1798, at 
                  Lisbon, Connecticut
               , but was now living in 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana, whence Samuel Peck invited Nathaniel Hardy to accompany
                    him to visit the Hyde family. Here young Hardy met the youngest daughter, Mary
                    Hyde, a very beautiful girl. They were married on May 13, 1821. The Hyde
                    Genealogy states that Nathaniel Hardy was of 
                        Charleston
                    , Indiana (Clark Co.), at this time. They went to live in a log
                    cabin on the Ohio river, near 
                        Charleston
                    , where Nathaniel sold supplies to river steamers. Here their
                    daughter, Caroline Matilda Hardy, was born on March 22, 1823. A descendant of
                    this daughter sent to us through the kindness of Miss Harriet Reid of 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana (a descendant of Samuel Peck and Melinda Hyde), a picture
                    of this cabin with the following information: "I am sending you a
                    picture of the old log house, on the Ohio river at 
                        Charleston
                     Landing. The house was swept away by the flood of 1913. It was
                    built without nails, of huge timbers, and Santa Claus could have gone down  the chimney with ease." A picture
                    was also sent of the house in 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , built about 1840 (perhaps earlier) by Nathaniel
                    Hardy, then a successful merchant of 
                        Louisville
                    . He died there on May 4, 1848, having married as his second
                    wife—Charlotte Howard of 
                        Louisville
                     in 1830. His daughter Caroline Matilda, was married on April 3,
                    1844, to A. D. Miles of 
                        Louisville
                    . They had two daughters, Mary Howard, born on Jan. 20, 1846, and
                    Sarah Lilly, born on Sept. 14, 1847.
            Melinda Hyde, older sister of Mary Hyde Hardy, married Samuel Peck on April 2,
                    1820, at 
                        Providence
                     (now Borden), Indiana. They settled at 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, about 1823. He was a captain of the local militia and
                    Probate Judge for several years. Another of the Hyde sisters, Rhoda Hyde,
                    married Samuel Day of 
                        Salem
                     on Dec. 25, 1824. In the spring of 1823, Mary Hyde Hardy and her
                    infant daughter went to visit her family who lived in 
                        Salem
                    , and there she died on May 3, 1823. Her grave is in Crown Hill
                    Cemetery, with the following inscription on the tombstone: 
                        Mary C. Hardy—Wife of Nathaniel Hardy—Departed this
                            life, May 3, 1823.1
                  
                    
            
            The night of Mrs. Hardy's death, her husband, Nathaniel Hardy, according
                    to his own report, dreamed that she was dead and looked at his watch. In the
                    morning a man came on horseback to report her death, which occurred at the exact
                    time of the dream. The young daughter, Caroline Matilda Hardy, is said to have
                    lived with her grandmother and aunts in 
                        Salem
                     until the time of her father's second marriage in 1830.
            These early contacts with 
                        Salem
                     explain why Nathaniel Hardy chose 
                        Washington
                     County, Indiana, as the town in which to purchase land and build a
                    home for his parents and his invalid brother and family. Nathaniel Hardy went in
                    1838 to accompany them to this new home.2 The returning
                    party included his parents, Joseph and Lucretia Hardy; his brother, Bailey; his
                    wife Ursula; and five children, among them his own son, Nathaniel, who later
                    became a physician in 
                        Salem
                    . With them also came his sister Mehitable and her husband, 
                  
                     4 The figures of the year are not clear, but the
                            record from the Hyde Genealogy now in possession of Mrs. Horace 
                                Campbell
                             of 
                                Frankfort
                            , Indiana, states "Mary Clark Hyde, born September
                            3, 1800, at 
                        Lisbon,
                                    Connecticut
                     ,
                            died May 3rd, 1823."
                  
                     2 The writers are fortunate to have two letters
                            written to his only sister, our grandmother, Caroline Matilda Weston,
                            who was left with her family in 
                                Massachusetts
                            .
               
                     Johathan Wedgewood. At one time they lived
                    on the road west of the Hardy farm. Niles Hardy, brother of Nathaniel Hardy,
                    does not seem to have come with the family on the "Canal Boat"
                    trip, but must have joined the family sometime during the year 1838. The fourth
                    brother, Bartlett Hardy, had gone to New 
                        Albany
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     long before 1838 and apparently never lived near 
                        Salem
                    . Our father, Bartlett Hardy Weston, was named for this great uncle.
            THE JOSEPH HARDY FAMILY
            Joseph Hardy was born in Bradford, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , on June 24, 1771, and died on Jan. 30, 1843, in 
                        Washington
                     County, Indiana. Lucretia Bartlett, wife of Joseph Hardy, was born
                    in 
                        Worcester
                    , Mass., on July 24, 1767, and died in 
                        Washington
                     County in 1853.
            
                    Children of Joseph and Lucretia (Bartlett) Hardy:
                
            Nathaniel Hardy—b. May 24, 1795, in Bradford, Mass.; d. May 4, 1848, 
                        Louisville
                    , Ky.; m. (1) Mary Hyde, May 13, 1821, probably in 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana. She was born Sept. 3, 1800, at 
                        Lisbon
                    , Conn., and died May 3, 1823, in 
                        Washington
                     County. She was buried in 
                        Salem
                     Cemetery. One daughter Caroline Matilda Hardy, born March 22, 1823,
                    married A. D. Miles of 
                        Louisville
                    , Ky., April 3, 1844. They had two daughters, Mary Howard (Gleason),
                    and Sarah Lilly (Sherrill). Nathaniel married (2) Catherine Howard of 
                        Louisville
                    . They probably had at least one son, James Edward Hardy.
            Bartlett Hardy—b. 1797, Mass.; d. 1854. Two daughters who located in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Ind., having descendants in that city. Bartlett Hardy married
                    Louisa McDonald of Ky.
            Bailey Hardy—b. 1802, in Mass.; d. March 16, 1850, 
                        Washington
                    , Ind. He is probably buried in the Hardy Family Cemetery west of 
                        Salem
                    , Ind. He married Ursula Knap. They had five children. One son,
                    Nathaniel, was born in 1828. He became a physician and practiced in 
                        Washington
                     County, Ind., before 1855.
            Niles Hardy, b. 1804, in Mass., d. 1857, at 
                        Salem
                    , Ind.; buried at Crown Hill Cemetery; m. (1) Isabella Knap; three
                    children. One, Edward Mino Hardy, lived at Morristown, Tenn. Niles Hardy m. (2)
                    Ruth B. Sawyer, July 20, 1840,  in 
                        Salem
                    , Ind. She died Oct. 22, 1854. married (3) Maria Bliss Dickson,
                    1856, in 
                        Salem
                    , Ind. Dr. Lawrence Paynter, of 
                        Salem
                    , in his Medical History of 
                            Washington
                         County, published in 1931, states that Niles Hardy was a
                    graduate of some Medical School in 
                        Ohio
                     and practiced in 
                        Salem
                     in the late fifties. He was a jeweler and an excellent musician.
            Mehitable Hardy, born May 18, 1807, Mass., died Oct., 1850, in 
                        Louisville
                    , Ky. She married Johanathan Wedgewood of Newmarket, 
                        New Hampshire
                    . They came with the Hardy family to 
                        Washington
                     County, Indiana, in 1838 and lived in this county several years. We
                    do not have the descendants.
            Caroline Matilda Hardy, born July 18, 1810, Mass., died 1880, 
                        Georgetown
                    , Mass. She married Flint Weston and lived and died in 
                        Georgetown
                    , Mass. They were the grand-parents of 
                        Marion
                     D. and Ruth V. Weston of 
                        Georgetown
                    , Mass., authors of this brief family history.
         
         
         
            The Daniel Bowman Family
            GEORGE W. BOWMAN
            
            Daniel Bowman,1 the elder, son of Christian Bowman, married
                    Anna Wakeman, Dec. 22, 1774, in 
                        Virginia
                    . They were married by Simon Harr, a Lutheran minister. Daniel
                    Bowman made a will2 dated 1824, probated 1828, Shenandoah
                    County, 
                        Virginia
                    , in which he devises and bequeaths to his wife, Anna Maria (or
                    Mary); to his son Henry, he devises his home farm on the river near Woodstock;
                    to his son John, land upon which he then lived; to his son Benjamin, all claims
                    for advances made to pay for Benjamin's land; he then provides for the
                    distribution of his entire estate among his ten children, each one to have an
                    equal share, but he does not mention them by name. Henry Bowman was named
                    executor, and as such made a settlement in 1830, covering items of
                    1828–30. In this settlement distributions were made to: 
                  Daniel Funkhauser and wife (name not given).
                  Eberhard Midinger and wife (no name).
                  Abraham Smutz (Smoot) and wife Mollie.
                  Mrs. Anna Fravel (widow of Benjamin Fravel).
               The ten children are again mentioned, but the four named are to receive
                    their shares of the inheritance later from payments on the lands as they come
                    due. The ten children were Henry, Benjamin, Jacob, Samuel, Barbara, Christian,
                    Joseph, George, Daniel, Jr., and Ann.
            Shenandoah County records show a quit-claim deed of Daniel, Jr., to his brother
                    Henry, administrator of his father's estate. Daniel Bowman, Jr., son of
                    Daniel and Anna (Wakeman) Bowman, left Stony Creek, 
                        Virginia
                    , with his wife and six children in the early eighteen-hundreds with
                    the great western migration. The western migration followed the trail of Daniel 
                        Boone
                     down the valley and on beyond the Cumberlands to 
                  Tennessee, kyu
               , and other western areas.
            Daniel Bowman, Jr., and his wife, with their family, made the journey and
                    ultimately reached 
                        Shelby
                     County, Indiana, where they settled about 1816. All remained in
                    this 
                  
                     1 The first installment of the Bowman family
                            history was published in the March issue of 1938.
                  
                     2 The service of Daniel Bowman, Sr., in the
                            Revolutionary War is noted in the "List of 
                                Virginia
                             Revolutionary Soldiers," compiled by H. J.
                            Eckenrode. On May 13, 1784, a warrant was issued to Daniel Bowman for
                            the sum of 4, 5s, and 4d. (Certified copy from the 
                                Virginia
                             State Library, 
                                Richmond
                            ). See John H. Wayland, History of the
                                Shenandoah Valley for a reference to Daniel Bowman.
               
                     county with the single exception of the
                    oldest son, John, who returned to 
                        Virginia
                    . Daniel, Jr., was born in 
                        Virginia
                     in 1779 and married Anna Reeser on Mar. 5, 1799. He died on July
                    27, 1843. Anna was born on Sept. 30, 1775. Her certificate was a 
                        Pennsylvania
                    -
                        German
                     fractur-script. Daniel was buried in the old Bowman-Dake Family
                    Cemetery, in 
                        Shelby
                     County, Indiana, near 
                        London
                    . He left no will. The children were John, Mary Magdalene,
                    Catherine, Ann, Fred and Christopher. All of them were born in 
                        Virginia
                    .
            The family Bible was finally located after much search. It was found in a family
                    of descendants, who had not borne the name Bowman for four generations.
                    Photostatic copies of the fly-leaf and family dates were made. A literal copy of
                    records follows: 
                  To we two, man and wife, Daniel and Anna Bauman, a son was born on the
                            13th day of September, 1799, his name was Johannes Bauman.
                  and on August 3rd, 1801, a daughter was born, her name was Kathrine
                            Bauman.
                  another time on November 23rd, 1803, another daughter was born, her
                            name was Magdalina Bauman [Mary?]
                  
                  another time on February 3rd, 1806, another daughter was born, her
                            name was Irma Bauman.
                  another time on the morning of December 13th, 1810, a son was born, a
                            sweet boy, his name was Frederich Bauman.
                  another time on January 17th [13?], 1813, another son was
                            born, his name was Christian [Christopher] Bauman.
               
            
            A tradition in the Bowman family relates how each evening an Indian Chief brought
                    up the cows for Anna Reeser Bowman and sat upon her doorstep, waiting for a bowl
                    of mush and milk; also that he captured a fawn for her, to which a bell was tied
                    so that the beautiful, young animal would not be shot by his braves or by
                    hunters.
            CHRISTIAN CHRISTOPHER BOWMAN
            
            Christian Christopher Bowman, the writer's grandfather, was born in 
                        Virginia
                     on Jan. 13, 1813. He married Katherine Scott on Mar. 26, 1835. She
                    died on July 22, 1838, leaving three children—John, Anne, and Daniel.
                    Of these three, John was born on Dec. 9, 1835. He was a successful farmer in 
                        Shelby
                     County, Indiana, and a captain of infantry during the Civil War. He
                    died in November, 1909. Christian Christopher Bowman was married a second and a
                    third time.  The second wife was Phoebe
                    Imel, the marriage taking place on March 4, 1840. This second Mrs. Bowman died
                    on July 20, 1842, leaving one son Henry who died soon after his mother. The
                    third wife had, like her new husband, been twice married before. Her maiden name
                    was Elizabeth Williams, and she was born on July 26, 1814. Her first marriage
                    was to William Tinkle. There were two children by this
                    marriage—William, who died without issue, and Mary Elizabeth who
                    married Isaac White and left no issue. Elizabeth (Williams) Tinkle, widow of
                    William Tinkle, married William Barlow. There were three children by this
                    marriage—Martha (who married Adam Fansler, and had two sons), James
                    and William. Christian Christopher and Elizabeth Bowman had four
                    children—Frederick, George, Catherine and Christopher. The last two
                    died in infancy. The mother died on Sept. 25, 1861, and the father, on April 18,
                    1885.
            Frederick Bowman, son of Christian Christopher and Elizabeth Bowman, was born on
                    Feb. 24, 1851. He married Mary Padrick. There were two
                    daughters—Fannie, who married C. Herman Jose, and Addie, who married 
                        Adrian
                     Carpenter. Frederick's second marriage was to Ida Cosler,
                    and their children were: Eva, who married William Hogle; Raymond, who married
                    Anna Buenagle; and Frederick Bowman, Jr. The father, Frederick Bowman, Sr., died
                    on Aug. 11, 1899.
            George 
                        Washington
                     Bowman, second son of Christian Christopher and Elizabeth Bowman,
                    was born on Jan. 25, 1855, and married Margaret Emma White on Mar. 19, 1884.
                    They had one son, George 
                        Washington
                     Bowman, Jr., who was born at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on Nov. 30, 1889. Margaret Emma White, daughter of Isaac M. and
                    Alvira (McCartney) White, was born on May 10, 1863. George W. Bowman Sr., was a
                    wholesale confectioner. He died on Sept. 12, 1910. George 
                        Washington
                     Bowman had one daughter, Julia Elizabeth Bowman, who was born on
                    Dec. 2, 1911. She married Edgar Hollis Leedy on July 2, 1929. Lillie Catherine
                    Keller, who was born on Sept. 5, 1886, was a daughter of Joseph H. and Charlotte
                    (Wenzel) Keller.3
            
            
               
                  3 The record of the Bowman family has been carefully
                        proved. Many photostats of wills, Bible records, maps, and other documents
                        have been collected. Pictures of members of the family and of their homes
                        have been collected. An unusual chart showing eight generations and bringing
                        the family lineage down to the present time has been prepared. Credit for
                        research done relative to the history of the Bowman family should be given
                        to the following: P. S. Rhodes, Woodstock, Va.; John Bowman, Edinburg, Va.;
                        James L. Bowman, Carmanguar, 
                     Alberta, Canada
                  ; D.
                        H. M. Bowman 
                            Toledo
                        . O.: Wirt George Bowman. Palm City, Cal.; and Dr. John H.
                        Wayland, Harrisonburg, Va.
            
         
         
         
            The Jonas Hoover Family
            JOHN M. BURKETT
            
            The father of Jonas Hoover was Andrew Hoover (Andreas Húber) who was
                    born on Jan. 29, 1827, at Ellerstadt in the Palatinate. Andrew died in 1794 in 
                        Randolph
                     County, 
                        North Carolina
                    . Arriving in the 
                        United States
                     on Sept. 9, 1738, he married Margaret Fouts (Pfautz) in 
                        Lancaster
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in about the year 1745. Shortly thereafter, Andrew and his wife
                    went to 
                        Maryland
                    , locating between the present towns of New 
                        Windsor
                     and Union Bridge in 
                        Carroll County
                    . The land acquired here was on Pipe Creek. Two Fouts families
                    settled nearby at nearly the same time. In about the year 1763, all three
                    families sold their lands and migrated to 
                        North Carolina
                     where they acquired land on the Uwharrie River. These lands were in
                    that part of Rowan County which later became 
                        Randolph
                     County.
            Numerous descendants of Andrew Hoover came to the Northwest.1
                    Among them were many who were descended from Jonas Hoover, his eldest son. A
                    number of these settled in Indiana. Jonas Hoover2 was born
                    in 1748 (possibly in 1746), and died on June 15, 1828. He married Rachel Briles,
                    the date of whose birth is not known. She died on Jan. 28, 1843, at 
                        Back Creek
                    , in 
                        Randolph
                     County, 
                        North Carolina
                    .
            
               Children of Jonas and Rachel (Briles) Hoover:
            John Hoover—b. 1780; d. Feb. 16, 1851; m. (1) Millicent Winslow (d.
                    Sept. 27, 1842); m. (2) Rachel Whisehunt (b., 1800, 
                        Randolph
                     Co., N. C.)
            Davied Hoover—b.—–; d.—–;
                    m. Polly—–; lived in N.C.; about seven children.
            Elizabeth Hoover—b. 1776; d. 1850; m. Valentine Waymire (b. 1870;
                    d.—–); lived at Independence, 
                        Warren
                     County, Ind.
            
               
                  1 Andrew and Margaret (Fouts) Hoover had thirteen
                        children: Jonas, Andrew, Jacob, Daniel, John, David, Peter, Henry,
                        Elizabeth, Rachel, Susannah, Mary Catherine.
               
                  2 This is not the Jonas Hoover whose family was
                        treated in an article by Dr. William M. Reser (Indiana Magazine
                            of History, March, 1937, XXXIII, 101–104). That Jonas
                        Hoover was a son of Daniel Hoover, a grandson of Andrew Hoover, and nephew
                        of the Jonas Hoover whose family is dealt with in the present article. The
                        information now presented has been gathered from the notes of Dr. Reser and
                        the writer who have done much research on the Hoover family. It is believed
                        that this is the first time that data relative to the family of the elder
                        Jonas Hoover have been published. For facts relative to Andrew Hoover, see
                        Major Calvin Kepehart, National Genealogical Magazine,
                        1929; Grace Julian Clarke, "Andrew Hoover comes to
                        Indiana", Indiana Magzine of History (Dec.,
                        1928), XXIV, 223–224.
            
            
            Andrew Hoover—b. 1780; d. 1852; m. Catherine—–in
                    N. C.; no children.
            Hannah Hoover—b. —–; d.
                    —–; m. Samuel Hardister in 1806.
            Nancy Hoover—b. 1785; d. —–; m. Moses Mills (d.
                    near Fishers, 
                        Hamilton
                     Co., Ind., 1840); four or five children, who left 
                        Hamilton
                     Co. between 1850–1860.
            Rachel Hoover—b. —–; d.
                    —–; m. Miller Davis. (Two grandchildren, Winslow and James
                    H. Davis, lived at 
                  Emporia,
                            Kansas
               ).
            Mary Hoover—b. 1795; d. 1879; m. Daniel 
                        Warren
                     (in War of 1812); lived near Carmel, Ind.
            
               Children of John3 and Millicent (Winslow)
                    Hoover:
            Jonas Hoover—b. Jan. 13, 1802; d. Jan. 16, 1896; m. Mary Newby (b.
                    Jan. 18, 1803; d. July 15, 1878); migrated to 
                        Hamilton
                     Co., Ind., 1832, and to Spring Creek Tp., Mahaska Co., 
                        Iowa
                    , near Oskaloosa about 1842; six children.
            Gulielma Marie Hoover—b. Nov. 22, 1806; d. Apr. 16, 1873; m. Stephen
                    Hinshaw (b. July 3, 1803; d. Sept. 25, 1854); migrated to 
                        Hamilton
                     Co., Ind., 1833; buried at Carmel, Indiana, Cemetery.
            Rachel Hoover—b. May 23, 1809; m. Johnson Gibson (b. 1790; d. April,
                    1857); lived in 
                        Hamilton
                     Co., Ind.; eight children. One child remained in Indiana, Sarah
                    Gibson (m. Isaac N. Beeson). A grandchild of Isaac N. and Sarah (Gibson) Beeson,
                    Mrs. Frank T. Sink is in business in Carmel, Ind. The children of Johnson and
                    Rachel (Hoover) Gibson, other than Sarah, migrated to 
                        Kansas
                    .
            Elizabeth Hoover—b. Dec. 26, 1811; d.—–; m.
                    Isham Partis. The family left 
                        Hamilton
                     Co., Ind., for the West after 1850.
            Millicent Hoover—b. Nov. 18, 1817; d. Feb. 25, 1848; m. Milton Burns;
                    lived in N. C.
            Caroline Hoover—b. Mar. 31, 1819; d. Feb. 16, 1852; buried at Carmel,
                    Ind.; m. Farley Miller; four children.
            John Hoover—b. Aug. 30, 1821; d. May 2, 1892; m. Elizabeth Whisenhunt;
                    lived in N. C.; quakers or friends; ten children.
            
               
                  3 John Hoover, eldest son of Jonas and Rachel (Briles)
                        Hoover and grandson of Andrew and Margaret (Fouts) Hoover.
            
            
            Eleazor Hoover—b. Dec. 12, 1823; d. 1903; m. Augustina Gibson; lived
                    in Ind., Ia., and Mo.; one child.
            Alfred Marsh Hoover—b. Dec. 21, 1826; m. —–; ten
                    children; lived in 
                        Randolph
                     Co., N. C.
            
               Children of David4 and Polly Hoover:
            Adam Hoover—b. 1808; d. 1879; m. Catherine—–;
                    lived in 
                        Randolph
                     Co., N. C.; eight children.
            Andrew Hoover—b. 1811; d. 1888; m. Nancy Young; lived at
                    Baker's Corner, 
                        Hamilton
                     Co., Ind., and in Lyon Co., Kan.
            Jacob Hoover—b. 1813; d. 1894; m. Elizabeth Jane Robbins (b. 1834; d.
                    1898); lived at Point Isabel, Ind.; two children.
            
               Children of Valentine and Elizabeth5 (Hoover)
                        Waymire:
            Absalom Waymire—b. 1795; d.—–; five children.
            Frederick Waymire—m. Mary —– (b. 1799; d. 1843);
                    lived in 
                        Warren
                     Co., Ind.; six children.
            Isaac Waymire—m. Rachel—– (b. 1805; d.
                    —–; lived in 
                        Madison
                     Co., Ia.; eight children.
            Solomon Waymire—b. 1811; d.—–; m. Louisa
                    Walters; lived in Nemaha Co., Neb.; nine children.
            Alexander Waymire—b. 1816; d. 1895; m. —–; two
                    children.
            Samuel Waymire— (no data in regard to birth, death or marriage); eight
                    children.
            Jacob Waymire—b. 1822; d. 1897; soldier in Civil War, Forty-eighth
                    Indiana; m. Elizabeth Lovejoy (b. 1822; d. 1896); U. B. preacher (last charge at
                    Neodesha, Kan.); fifteen children.
            
               Children of Daniel W. and Mary6 (Hoover) 
                            Warren
                        
               :
            Ruth 
                        Warren
                    —b. 1814; d. 1888; m. Ezekiel Clampitt; lived at
                    Sheridan, Ind.; nine children.
            William Stewart 
                        Warren
                    —b. 1825; d. 1904; m. Ruth B. Carey (b. 1832; d. 1927);
                    druggist at Carmel, Ind.; three children.
            Rachel 
                        Warren
                    —b. 1821; d. 1863; m. Thomas Mills; lived at Cicero,
                    Ind.; ten children.
            
               
                  4 David Hoover, second son of Jonas Hoover and brother
                        of John Hoover.
               
                  5 Elizabeth Hoover, daughter of Jonas Hoover and
                        sister of John and David Hoover.
               
                  6 Mary Hoover, daughter of Jonas Hoover and sister of
                        John, David and Elizabeth.
            
            
            Zina 
                        Warren
                    -b. 1831; d. 1917; m. Isabella Thomas; three children (Mrs. Emma
                    Puckett, of Camel, Ind., is one of the three).
            Mary Ann 
                        Warren
                    -b. 1834; d. 1915; m. Edwin Harvey (b. 1833; d. 1917); lived at
                    Carmel, Ind.; six children (Mrs. Lee R. Pfaff of Carmel, Ind. is one of the
                    six).
            Daniel W. 
                        Warren
                    , Jr.-b. 1839; d. 1929; m. Julia Ann Mitchener; two children (Mrs.
                    Martha J. Ward of Indidianapolis is one of them).
            Angeline 
                        Warren
                    -b. 1842; d. 1925; m. (1) John Gray; m. (2) Levi 
                        Jackson
                    ; lived at Sheridan, Ind.; six children by John Gray.
            Susan 
                        Warren
                    -b. 1828; d. 1910; m. William Lindley; one child.
            
                    Children of Stephen and Gulielma Marie7
                        (Hoover) Hinshaw:
                
            Millicent Hinshaw-b. Oct. 15, 1827; d. Mar 22, 1887; m. Ellis Willis Jessup (b.
                    Nov. 15, 1824; d. Mar. 26, 1909); lived at 
                        Plainfield
                    , Ind.; thirteen children. (Among the thirteen are: Dr. John T.
                    Jessup, 
                        Elwood
                    , Ind.; and Mrs. Frank W. Weer, Anderson, Ind. Further details can
                    be furnished).
            Andrew Hinshaw-b. Jan. 10, 1829; d. Nov. 9, 1911; m. Sarah Ann Hiatt; lived at 
                        Emporia
                    , Kan.; eight children.
            John S. Hinshaw-b. Mar. 3, 1830; d. Dec. 13, 1916; m. (1) Jemima Sanders; m. (2)
                    Mary Jane Cruse; no children by first wife, but ten by second wife. (Among the
                    ten are: Mrs. Martha A. Woodward, Lapel, Ind.; John C. Hinshaw, Carmel, Ind.;
                    and Lemuel H. Hinshaw, Zionsville, Ind.)
            Thomas I-Iinshaw-b. Feb. 26, 1832; d. Sept. 5, 1872; m. (1) Susannah 0. Dimmitt;
                    m. (2) Julietta Evans; m. (3) Lydia Davis; four children-one by first wife, two
                    by second wife, and one by third wife. (Living now are: 
                        Franklin
                     P. Hinshaw, Carmel, Ind.; and Perry Hinshaw, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
            Enos Hinshaw-b. June 12, 1834; d. Jan. 5, 1900; m. Martha R. Haines; seven
                    children (Albert A. Hinshaw of Carmel, Ind., is one of the seven).
            
               
                  7 Gulielma Marie Hoover was a daughter of John Hoover
                        and a granddaughter of Jonas Hoover.
            
            
            William Henry Hinshaw—b. Dec. 6, 1839; d. Aug. 3, 1909; served in
                    Civil War; m. Anna M. Barnett; lived in 
                        Kansas
                    ; four children.
            Rebecca Hinshaw—b. Sept. 6, 1841; d. —–; m.
                    George Pruitt; buried at 
                        Westfield
                    , Ind.; eight children.
            Martha Hinshaw—b. Dec. 20, 1844; d. Jan. 22, 1901; m. (1) Smith Estes;
                    m. (2) Stephen H. Rich; three children by second marriage.
            Ira Hinshaw—b. Mar. 22, 1847; d.—–; m. Gulielma
                    Hiatt; lived in 
                        Kansas
                    ; three children.
            
               Children of Adam8 and Catherine
                        (—–) Hoover:
            Rebecca Hoover—b. 1829; d. —–; m. Thomas
                    Lambeth; lived in N. C.; three children.
            David Y. Hoover—b. 1831; d. 1900; soldier in Civil War; Thirty-fourth
                    Indiana; m. (1) Nettie Rush; m. (2) Sarah Harvey; m. (3) Rachel Victoria Hoover;
                    lived at 
                        Fairmount
                    , Ind.; three children by first marriage and four by third marriage;
                    children live in 
                        Chicago
                    .
            William H. Hoover—b. 1832; d. 1894; m. Sarah Newby; lived in 
                        Randolph
                     Co., Ind.; ten children (D. Sherman Hoover who lives in 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., is one of the ten).
            Alson Hoover—(no data in regard to birth, death, or marriage); lived
                    in N. C.; three children.
            Isaac Hoover—(no data in regard to birth, death, or marriage); lived
                    in N. C.; two children.
            Andrew L. Hoover—no data.
            Alexander A. Hoover—b. —–; d.
                    —–; m. Sarah Etta Hoover; lived at 
                  Caldwell, idu
               ; no children.
            Lucinda Hoover—b.—–; d.
                    —–; m. Al Ridge; lived in N. C.; three children.
            
               Children of Andrew9 and Nancy (Young)
                    Hoover:
            Thomas Hoover—b. 1834; d. 1904; m. Katherine Briles; lived in 
                        Hamilton
                     Co., Ind.; six children (Rachel Victoria Hoover, third wife of
                    David Y. Hoover (see above) was one, as was Andrew S. Hoover of Fisherburg,
                    Ind.)
            Alexander Hoover—b. 1836; d. 1913; m. Rebecca J. Ridge; lived at
                    Hortonville, Ind.; five children (William H. Hoover, Township assessor,
                    Hortonville, is one of them).
            
               
                  8 Adam Hoover, son of David Hoover and grandson of
                        Jonas Hoover.
               
                  9 Andrew Hoover, son of David Hoover, was a brother of
                        Adam Hoover.
            
            
            Margaret Hoover—b.—–;
                    d.—–; m. Dolphus Finnel; lived at 
                        Emporia
                    , Kan.; one child.
            Susan Hoover—b. 1844; d.—–; m. Jacob C. Beals;
                    lived in 
                        Hamilton
                     Co., Ind.; seven children.
            David Hoover—b.—–; killed in Civil War,
                    Eighty-ninth Indiana.
            Nancy Jane Hoover—b. 1848; d. —–; m. Henry
                    Johnson; lived at Sheridan, Ind.; ten children.
         
         
         
            Queries and Answers
            Query 56: RUSSELL FAMILY
            
            Mary Russell was born about 1824 in Indiana, but we do not know where. She
                    married Harvey Allen, who was born in 
                        Ohio
                    . Locality not known. They lived in Indiana, as we know of a son,
                    their only child, who was born there about Feb. 29, 1848. His name was James 
                        Monroe
                     Allen. Mary Russell had a brother, Alexander, and her father was
                    either Alexander or John Russell. Any information regarding this Russell family
                    will be appreciated.—E.M.M.
            Query 57: KURTZ FAMILY
            
            John Kurtz was born in 1750, and died in 1845. He was buried in Hebron cemetry, 
                        Jefferson County
                    , Indiana. He left a will, naming his wife, Katherine, sons, Jacob
                    and John, and daughters, Mary and Frances. He was a friend and neighbor of
                    Thomas Jameson, a Revolutionary soldier of 
                        Virginia
                    . Proof that John Kurtz was a Revolutionary soldier, if so, is
                    wanted.—M.H.
            Query 58: WOOFTER AND WINANS
                        FAMILIES
            
            Information is wanted of the family of John Woofter, a resident of Indiana in
                    1840, or earlier. Tradition says that the family lived near 
                        South Bend
                    . Names of the descendants of Ezekiel Winans are also wanted. It is
                    thought that he lived near 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana, about 1881, perhaps earlier than this
                    date.—P.S.
            Query 59: HOLLOWELL FAMILY
            
            Joseph (Josse) Hollowell came to 
                        Orange
                     County, Ind., about 1809, and his father, Thomas, joined him in
                    1812. Joseph died about 1822, and Thomas died prior to 1830, both in 
                        Orange
                     Co. Joseph was married on April 20, 1804, to Elizabeth Woodard,
                    daughter of Joshua Woodward, who was from either 
                        North Carolina
                     or 
                        Virginia
                    . I would like to know definitely the state. Exact date of death of
                    Joseph and Thomas Hollowell wanted.—L. D. P.
            Query 60: STOVER FAMILY
            
            Joseph Stover married Esther Yount on April 4, 1811, in Tenn. They moved to 
                        Wayne
                     County, Ind. in 1811 or 1812. Their daughter Elizabeth was born in 
                        Wayne
                     Co. on March 8,  1812, and
                    married James Ralston on Aug. 23, 1827, in the same County. He died about 1834
                    or 1835 of cholera. Where and when was he born? Esther Yount was born on May 6,
                    1785, in 
                        North Carolina
                    . She was a 
                        Quaker
                    . Joseph and Esther Stover moved to Johnson Co., 
                        Iowa
                    , about 1838. The names of the parents of Joseph Stover and his
                    wife, Esther Yount, are wanted—N. E. N.
            Query 61: GILLESPIE-PARISH
                        FAMILY
            
            Ancestry of Lydia Parish wanted. She married James or John Gillespie. The old
                    Gillespie plantation was near Sharon, Tenn. They had sons named James, John and
                    Charles, and a daughter Clevia. She married James White Cathey. He had a sister
                    Matilda. She married a Crittenden and they had a daughter Belle, who married a
                    VanDyke. Many of these families had descendants in 
                        Texas
                    . Perhaps Indiana descendants of the Parish family may be able to
                    answer this query. —C. N.
            Query 62: NATION FAMILY
            
            Seth Nation was born about 1800 and died in 
                        Delaware
                     Co., Ind. He married before 1829, Charlotte Nash, who died about
                    1841. Both are buried about six miles west of 
                        Muncie
                    , Ind. Where was Seth Nation born? Also where and when was his wife
                    born? Sampson Nation and wife Susannah (Johnson) Nation were in 
                        Madison
                     Co., Ky., in 1815. They later moved to a place southeast of New 
                        Lisbon
                    , Henry Co., Ind. Sampson Nation's will was dated 1824.
                    When and where were he and his wife born?—N. E. N.
            Query 63: RAY-BEARD FAMILY
            
            Joseph Ray, the son of William Ray, was born on May 25, 1735, in Anne Arundel
                    Co., Md. He married Mary Sheckle. They migrated to what is now 
                        Marion
                     Co., Ky., in 1796, where Joseph died on May 2, 1819. The oldest son
                    of Joseph and Mary (Sheckle) Ray was John Scheckle Ray. He was born on Dec. 15,
                    1765. He married Catherine Beard. Wanted the names and the parents of Mary
                    Sheckle and Catherine Beard, and information concerning the Ray family in
                    Indiana.—L. W. B.
            Answer to Query 46 (Dec., 1937, p. 416, E. M. C.): Thomas Bradford, the Founder
                    of 
                        Greene
                     County (Indiana),  has a
                    special sketch, in Biographical Memoirs of 
                            Greene
                         County (1908), pp. 253–255. The following
                    information, gathered from the Memoirs, may help the person
                    who presented this query: A branch of the Bradford family removed to 
                        North Carolina
                    , where, about 1785, Thomas Bradford was born in 
                        Orange
                     Co. In 1814, he came to 
                        Orange
                     Co., Ind., which county got its name from 
                        Orange
                     County settlers from 
                        North Carolina
                    . He was advised to return to Carolina until the Indians could be
                    removed from what now is 
                        Greene
                     county, which was his intended destination. This he did, and in
                    1816 came back to stay. (Entered Sec. 22, Twp. 7, Range 5, S.E. 1/4).
            Three brothers of this family came together. Two of them settled, lived and died
                    in 
                        Daviess
                     County. The sand hill where Thomas Patterson lived in 1908, a mile
                    south of 
                        Bloomfield
                    , was his [Thomas Bradford's] first home. About 1840, he
                    passed away. Since then all of his children have followed him. His descendants
                    in Green County are numerous. All of them are citizens of usefulness and good
                    repute. An early History of 
                            Greene
                         County (1875) mentions Thomas Bradford, stating that in
                    the organization of the county and many years after, "Judge Bradford
                    was the active, living, moving and controling spirit in its civil and political
                    organization." The will of Thomas Bradford would help make direct
                    connection, no doubt with Judge William Bradford, father of the Rachel of your
                    query. No mention is made in these early histories of the Cole Family of 
                        Greene
                     County. May have been of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     line of Bradfords.
            Answer to Query 49 (Dec., 1937, p. 517. H. E.): A brother of the John Anderson of
                    this query was James Anderson who was born in 1768, in what is now Hampshire
                    Co., W. Va. The published records of this family state that "Capt.
                    James Anderson, served in a minor capacity in the Revolutionary War, at its
                    close," but do not give details. He probably served with his father
                    Capt. Thomas Anderson, who was born in 1733, and died in 
                        Fairfield
                     Co., 
                        Ohio
                    . James was a member of Gen. Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    's army (1794–1796), being a draughtsman. He
                    made plans for 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Fort 
                        Erie
                    , and Fort LeBoeuf. He was present at the death of Gen. 
                        Wayne
                    . He married Priscilla House, who was born in 1767 and died on Aug.
                    15, 1847. She was a daughter of John and Ruth  (Metcalf) House. Their children were: Levi, Thomas Jefferson, John Mahala,
                    Elizabeth, James 
                        Madison
                    , Ruth, Rebecca, Hiram H., and Priscilla. James died in 1844 in 
                        Clinton
                     Co., Ind. He and his wife are buried in the old Abbott Graveyard.
                    This information may help to locate John Anderson, brother of James who also
                    came to Ind.—Homer Eiler, 247 West Foothill Blvd., Pasadena, Calif.
            Answer to Query 52 (Mar., 1938, p. 135, L. B. E.): One son of John Gaither and
                    Mary Perry Gaither was James W. Gaither (1784-1860). He married Mary Hunter,
                    daughter of Patrick and Nancy (Jack) Hunter. Their son Stevenson Gaither was
                    born in 1817. He married Matilda Parr (b. 1819). Their son Robert B. Gaither was
                    born in 1840. He married Ellen Thorn (b. 1844). Their daughter Florence M.
                    Gaither was born in 
                        Alton
                    , Crawford Co., Ind. She became a member of the D. A. R. through the
                    service of John Gaither (Number 51235). A daughter of James W. Gaither and Mary
                    Hunter (1795-1857), who were married in 1814, was Harriet E. Gaither (1829-99).
                    She was married in 1850 to James A. Clark (1821-1894). Their daughter, Olive
                    Clark, was born in 
                        Leavenworth
                    , Crawford Co., Ind. She married John L. Cox, D. A. R. (Number
                    53570). Descendants in Crawford Co., Ind., should be able to give the
                    information wanted in this query.—M. T. M.
            Answer to Query 54 (Mar., 1938, p. 136, M. H.): There may be some connection
                    between the James Blythe of this query and the Blythe family of my mother. Two
                    family Bibles, one published in 1829, by J. Emery and B. Waugh, 14 Crosley St.,
                    N. Y., for the M. E. Church, the other in 1845, by 
                        Jasper
                     Harding, 57 South Third St., 
                        Philadelphia
                    , contain records. The earliest record is that of Andrew Blythe, who
                    was born in March, 1774, though I do not know where. He had a sister Mary
                    Blythe. John Craig Blythe (my ancestor), son of Andrew, was born in Gibson Co.,
                    Ind., near Owensville, in 1808. He had fourteen children, the last of whom,
                    Samuel, is now near the end of his life. Names often found in this family were:
                    Andrew, John and Samuel. I would appreciate very much any information relative
                    to early ancestors of the Blythe family. Possibly there may be a link with the
                    Crawford county family.—Joe B. Willis, Editor 
                        Oakland City
                    
                    Journal,
                    
                        Oakland City
                    , Ind.
         
         
         
            Bible Records
            THE EASOM HANNAN FAMILY
            
            
                    Marriages:
                
            Easom Hannan1 was married in the year of our Lord and
                    Saviour, September 15th, 1783, to Mary Greenlee, daughter of William Greenlee of
                    Botetourt County, 
                        Virginia
                    .
            Edward G. Hannan, son of Easom Hannan, was married in the year of our Lord and
                    Saviour, August 4th, 1825, to Jane Maxwell, daughter of Capt. Audley Maxwell of
                    Tazewell County, Va.
            James William Hannan, son of Edward G. Hannan, was married on the 21st day of
                    March, 1850, to Miss Rosana Parks, daughter of Benjamin Parks, all of Miama
                    County, 
                        Ohio
                    .
            Emma P. Hannan was married to Henry Stover, March 4th, 1872.
            Eliza Jane Hannan married William R. Brady, Beb., 1875.
            Mary Carolina Hannan married George W. Bryan, Dec. 20, 1876.
            Clara Alice Hannan married William R. Myers, —–, 1882.
            Edward Parks Hannan married Elizabeth Frances Hunt, Dec. 21, 1884.
            John Barnard Hannan married Mary Marjory Effie McCreary, Sept. 17, 1890.
            Joseph Bennett Hannan married Ella Young, March 19, 1903.
            
                    Births:
                
            Edward G. Hannan was born in the year of our Lord and Saviour, April 11th day,
                    1800. Jane Hannan was born in the year of our Lord and Saviour, February 26th,
                    1803.
            James William Hannan was born, May 19th, 1826.
            Sarah Ann Hannan was born, November 15th, 1828.
            Silas Reynolds Hannan was born, March 19th, 1831.
            Mary Jane Hannan was born, June 2nd, 1833.
            Audley Mathews Hannan was born, December 28th, 1835.
            Rebecca Maxwell Hannan was born, August 30th, 1838.
            Nancy Matilda Hannan was born, January 1st, 1845.
            Rosana Parks was born, February 17th, 1829.
            
                    Deaths:
                
            Silas Reynolds Hannan departed this life, November 13th day, 1833.
            Jane Hannan departed this life, August the 22nd day, 1847.
            Edward G. Hannan departed this life, July 27th, 1850.
            Nancy Matilda Hannan departed this life, July 8, 1887. (Daughter of James Wm.
                    Hannan).
            James William Hannan died, December 19, 1904.
            Roseana Hannan died, June 28th, 1910.
            Nancy Matilda (Hannan) Bay died, March 31, 1931.
            
               
                  1 Easom Hannan was married in Botetourt County, 
                            Virginia
                        , but in that section which later became 
                            Roanoke
                         County. He lived and died tthere, and is the Revolutionary
                        ancestor of Mrs. Robert E. Brown (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.), in whose possession the Bible containing these records
                        has been placed. The Bible was published and sold by Edmund Gushing,
                        Lv.nenburg, Mass., 1828.
            
            
            THE POWERS FAMILY
            
            
                    Births:
                
            William D. Powers—b. Sept. 29, 1779.1
            
            Sarah Beeks—b. Dec. 17, 1792.
            Mary Hoakeland Powers—b. July 30, 1814.
            Arabella C. Powers—b. March 2, 1816.
            Wm. H. Powers—b. March 11, 1818.
            James H. Powers—b. Aug. 30, 1819.
            Martin John Powers—b. Nov. 19, 1820.
            Richard Peter Powers—b. Apr. 19, 1823.
            Jane McRay Powers—b. March 27, 1825.
            Richard Nelson Powers—b. Aug. 5, 1827.
            Eliza Katherine Powers—b. Oct. 5, 1830.
            Nancy May Powers—b. Dec. 4, 1832.
            Sarah Isabella Powers—b. Apr. 24, 1835.
            
                    Marriages:
                
            Wm. D. Powers m. Sarah Beeks, April 26, 1810.
            Wm. H. Powers m. Sarah Clentine, Oct. 1, 1844.
            Richard Nelson Powers m. Malissa Sharp, Aug. 5, 1847.
            James A. Hume m. Mary H. Powers, Nov. 20, 1834.
            Jonathan 
                        Kershner
                     m. Jane McKay Powers, July 4, 1847.
            Richard N. Powers m. Frances E. Tucker, July 26, 1855.
            Daniel W. Tucker m. Eliza K. Powers, April 29, 1867.
            
                    Deaths:
                
            Richard Peter Powers—d. Oct. 24, 1824.
            Nancy May Powers—d. May 23, 1838.
            Sarah Isabella Powers—d. May 31, 1838.
            William D. Powers—d. Aug. 27, 1857.
            Sarah Powers, wife of Wm. D. Powers—d. Oct. 29, 1869.
            Arabella C. Powers—d. Dec. 27, 1859.
            Martin John Powers—d. Oct. 6, 1886.
            Richard N. Powers—d. April 7, 1896.
            Elizabeth K. Powers Tucker—d. Aug. 10, 1906.
            Malissa Powers, wife of Richard N. Powers—d. March 7, 1854.
            Mary Powers, wife of Martin John Powers—d. Jan. 25, 1887.
            Frances E. Powers, wife of Richard N. Powers—d. March 15, 1928.
            
               
                  1 William D. Powers, and his wife Sarah Beeks, lived
                        in Indiana in 1827. Sarah was the daughter of Christopher and Catherine
                        (Barnes) Beeks. One sister, Nancy Beeks, married George May, and lived in 
                            Bartholomew
                         Co., Ind. Another sister, Catherine Beeks, married George Smith
                        in 1817, and removed from 
                            Ohio
                         to 
                     Albany,
                                Delaware
                   Co.,
                        Ind. See Query 10, December, 1936, p. 433, Indiana Magazine of
                            History.—Katherine K. Adams, 1837 Greenleaf Ave., 
                            Chicago
                        , Ill.
            
         
         
         
            Abstracts of Early Wills of 
                        Jackson
                     County, Indiana
            Sullivan, Patrick—June 29, 1817; probated Feb. 27. 1818; names wife
                    Jane, son Patrick, son Henry, son William, daughters Jane, Catherine, Elizabeth,
                    Margaret, Sarah, and Susannah; children not of age, son John, Catherine,
                    Elizabeth, Margaret, Sarah, and Susannah. Will Book, No. 1, 
                        Jackson
                     County, Indiana, 1.
            Jessop, Thomas—Dec. 9, 1819; probated March 15, 1820; wife, Mary;
                    children, Thomas, Isaac, Nathan, Jessop, Ruth Perisho, Ester Newby, Patience
                    Mills, Sarah Gray; witnesses, Thomas Storm, George Jones, Jesse Dixon;
                    executors, Isaac, Jessop, Enoch. Ibid., 4.
            Draper, Nathan—Apr. 6, 1822; probated June 5, 1822; wife, Mary; son
                    Jonathan, son Robert, son Nathan, son Peter, daughter Mary; mentions
                    brother-in-law, Thomas Jessop. Ibid., 6.
            Alsup, John—Aug. 30, 1824; probated Nov. 8, 1824; wife and William
                    Newland executors; no children mentioned. Ibid., 12.
            Rephart, George—August 15, 1824; probated Aug. 21, 1824; witnesses,
                    Jesse B. Durham, Henry Boas, Sr., and Henry Boas, Jr. (No wife or children
                    mentioned); devises to George Iseninge $40; "for which I
                    hold notes"; all money due to him from Government mentioned; Henry
                    Boas, Sr., Executor. Ibid., 14.
            Marshall, William—Jan. 1, 1825; probated Oct. 1, 1825; wife Elizabeth,
                    sons Claver and Malen, Simon, Jehu (?), John, William, daughters, Rebecca, Leah,
                    and Rachel. Witnesses: Samuel Stamfield-Solomon Ruddick-William Cox. Ibid., 15.
            Keith, Daniel—April 2, 1824, probated Oct. 23, 1824; wife, Rosy;
                    daughters, Rosanah, Polly, Prudence Jones, Elizabeth 
                        Reddick
                    ; one-third of estate divided; Constance lone, ten dollars she has
                    in her own hands; witnesses, Elisha Ruddick, James Denny and William Payne. Ibid., 18.
            Green, William C.—May 30, 1829; probated Aug. 10, 1829; wife,
                    Elizabeth; sons, Robert, Clark, and McCallan;  daughters, Henrietta, Emily, Camila; brother-in-law, Jarry Coots; a sum to be
                    given to him, equal to sum given to him, by each of "my brothers
                    separately," and if he likes to remain with the family, and work with
                    the sons of the farm; beloved wife, Elizabeth, and my brother Nathaniel Green,
                    Executors; witnesses, Seth K. Kenckley—Charles Bakelshy-mer and David
                    McIntire. Ibid., 20.
         
      
   
