
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 16, Issue 1, pages 1-172. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:16+issue:1+year:1920&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Temperence Movements and Legislation in Indiana
            By Charles E. Camp, DePauw University, 1919
            
                    EARLY INDIANA METHODISM AND TEMPERANCE MOVEMENTS
                
            The history of the temperance movement in Indiana may be divided, roughly speaking, into three great
                    movements or cycles which seemingly have increased in their intensity until the desired result has
                    been accomplished. The first cycle began with the early settlement of the territory and lasted until
                    the year 1855; of course the first quarter of a century, or up until 1816, we must call merely a
                    period of establishment. It would be hard to say that this movement began previous to the
                    ratification of the state constitution. The second period began with the fall of the temperance
                    forces at the close of 1855 and lasted from that time until the early part of the legislative
                    session of 1883; this period, full of discouragements and trials for the temperance forces,
                    culminated in their bitter disappointment at that time. From that date until 1917 they have worked
                    more heroically than ever before. There has been more study, more organization and more devotion to
                    the cause than in any of the previous years. Consequently this, the third period is the most
                    important of them all. It embodies all of the experiences and lessons of the first two attempts, and
                    with these and a greater determination to back them, the temperance forces have at last been
                    successful.
            Summarizing hastily the situation as it was in 1800, we  find some
                    very peculiar conditions existing. Imagine a population of 4,875 people largely scattered about, for
                    the most part, in the three enormous counties of the territory, 
                        Knox
                    , Clark, and 
                        Wayne
                    ; bear in mind that these people were the product of other backwoods localities; that
                    they had been denied all of the so-called refining influences of their earlier ancestry; that they
                    were rude and unkempt; crue and uneducated; and that religion was almost unknown to them, at least,
                    as a practical working force, and remember, also, that this was a wild frontier country which needed
                    taming, and that it was a rough people that must do that taming. Add to this the facts that the
                    pioneer Hoosier was essentially a good man, sturdy, true, kind, and possessing all the sterling
                    characteristics of an embryonic citizen of a great commonwealth and you have a miniature picture of
                    the earliest phases of civilization in Indiana.
            With the coming of such men came the institutions of their old home. They brought with them old ideas
                    of a social life, of family legends and feuds, of taverns and dances, of schools and churches. And
                    yet, such is not strange for men roam the world over carrying with them their institutions and their
                    industries, their strengths and their weaknesses. And as might be expected, with this early settler
                    came the whiskey flask and memories of other and more hilarious times. It is no state secret that
                    the majority of these early pioneer trappers, hunters and missionaries made use of the
                    "artificial-fire" to warm themselves when it was cold and to cool themselves when
                    it was hot. Consequently as a result of this practice and the demand which grew up out of the
                    custom, as well as the profits derived therefrom, taverns and bar-rooms were not slow in making
                    their appearance.
            And with them came Methodism, one of the most vital temperance forces in early times. Still, it is
                    not altogether correct to say that they came together for the liquor elements in nearly all
                    localities seem to have ante-dated the other by some years. However, in a great many cases they did
                    come at the same time; with the entry of more new settlers they came, hand in hand, often embodied
                    in the same person; riding on horseback, trudging behind the pioneer train or marching in  military procession. And so both had their beginnings, we might say,
                    simultaneously.
            In 1800 William Henry Harrison was appointed governor of the territory. He took his office January
                    10, 1801, at 
                        Vincennes
                     where the seat of government had been established. Here in July of 1805, the first
                    legislature of the territory was convened. Conditions appeared to be very prosperous, yet in spite
                    of this apparent progress the country grew very slowly. At the same time that congress separated the
                    territory of Indiana from the Northwest territory in 1800 it had also passed a law that the
                    territory might have a representative as soon as it could boast of a population of five thousand
                    free white male citizens over twenty-one years of age. So slow was the growth that this did not take
                    place until 1808. There were, perhaps, four reasons for this slow increase in population. They were
                    as follows: 
                  The Indian title to the land was extinguished only on a few tracts on the border of
                            Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                            .
                  The high price of government land. It was sold at two dollars ($2.00) an acre.
                  The absurd manner of selling the land.1
                  
                  
                     
                                Ohio
                             being older and more settled attracted most of the moving population.2
                  
               
                
            Sometime, too, during the year 1809 congress divided the territory into two parts, Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . This was so unpopular that it "raised the danger" of a great many of
                    the people for they had been quite anxious to become a state as soon as the required number of
                    voters had been acquired. After the year 1810 the territory became one of the so-called first class
                    varieties for the people were allowed to choose their reprsentative to the national assembly.2 This continued until the state was admitted to the union in 1816. By the fall
                    of 1815 the population of the state numbered 63,897. This being more than the congressional
                    requirement of sixty thousand, preparations were made to hold a constitutional convention in the
                    territory. 
                  
                     1 At first they sold only in sections of one mile square, later half
                            sections, and still later. in 1804, fourth sections. The purchaser paid one-fourth in
                            advance; another fourth in two years; another in three years; and the remainder in four
                            years. In case of failure to pay in the required time, six percent was charged from the date
                            of maturity. Western Christian Advocate, Aug. 15, 1845.
                  
                     2
                            Western Christian Advocate, Aug. 15, 1845 p. 69.
                  
                     3
                            Western Christian Advocate, Aug. 16, 1845 p. 69.
               
                     It was held during the summer of 1816 at Corydon; a constitution
                    was framed and submitted to congress early in the session of the same year. This convention was
                    composed for the most part of "clear-minded, practical men, whose patriotism was above
                    suspicion and whose morals fair".4 After the constitution had been
                    under consideration for several days in the senate of the 
                        United States
                     they declared in favor of it on December 6. On December 9 the house followed in like
                    manner and the constitution was formaly adopted two days later. Indiana had become a state with the
                    full rights of such a commonwealth.
            Because many of the early reforms were to a large extent the outgrowth of Methodist effort it is well
                    to give at this time a brief sketch of their work. As hinted above, the Methodists had not been
                    idle. To begin with they did not have settlements as a body of emigrants, yet occasionally a few
                    families of Methodists would be found contiguous to each other.5 However, in the
                    broader sense, they were greatly scattered and did not have much intercourse. And in these groups of
                    early Methodists there was seldom to be found a preacher, but it was only a few years until an
                    occasional circuit-rider made visits to the more thickly settled parts and preached. The first
                    sermons ever preached in Indiana were probably preached by Berry Lakin and Samuel Parker for they
                    made transient visits to Clark's Grant, now 
                        Clark county
                    , as early at 1801.6 Moses Ashworth, another Methodist, has the
                    distinction of having the first pastoral charge. This was on the Silver Creek circuit in
                    Clark's Grant.7 The first circuit to be organized was also completed
                    by Ashworth in the year 1807. It was called the Silver Creek circuit and had one hundred and
                    eighty-eight members at the end of the first year.8 Of course, in the meantime
                    other circuits were in the process of establishment near 
                        Vincennes
                     and in the Whitewater district in the southeastern section of the country.
            
               
                  4 Holiday, Indiana Methodism, 19.
               
                  5 Holiday, Indiana Methodism, 79.
               
                  6 Holiday, Indiana Methodism, 26. Among the first
                        Methodist Sermons over preached in the territory were those preached by the venerable Peter
                        Cartwright in 1804. These were preached at Robert's and Prather's with Mr.
                        Lakin.
               
                  7 Holiday, Indiana Methodism, 26.
               
                  8 Holiday, Indiana Methodism, 26.
            
            
            At first, meeting-houses were not erected due to the fact that the home-making work had to be done.
                    Later, however, places of worship began to rise, the first one built was in the Robertson
                    neighborhood, near 
                        Charlestown
                    . By the end of the first year three meeting-houses had been erected on this circuit
                        alone.9 To be sure, they were cheap, rough, log-houses, yet they showed
                    evidences of a desire on the part of the people to express their piety and liberality. This was in
                    1807.
            Before the erection of these meeting-houses the more or less informal srvices had to be held in the
                    home of some member who happened to live in the more populous district. This however, was not always
                    suitable for the houses were small and accomodations poor. Sometimes they met in the open under the
                    shade of enormous trees and there worshiped in primitive fashion; and then again they were offered
                    the use of some tavern, some house of entertainment, or some bar-room. These were nearly always
                    accepted for people looked upon drink as one of the necessities and such places were not held in bad
                    repute. A remarkable instance has been cited. 
                        The bar-room although saturated with whiskey and tobacco was nevertheless often the first
                            place thrown open to preaching in a western village and the landlord would pride himself on
                            keeping good order during the services.10
                  
                     Perhaps the first sermons preached in New 
                        Albany
                     and Rising Sun were in bar-rooms. A preacher on one of these early circuits had to pass
                    through a village which contained a tavern. He left word that he would preach there at noon on his
                    next round. In the meantime the tavern-keeper advertised the meeting and a large crowd was present.
                    The preacher came at the appointed time and preached a sermon with good results. Another sermon
                    preached under similar circumstances by James Conwell of Laurel led to the conversion of a
                    tavern-keeper, who then disposed of his liquors and made a church out of his bar-room until the
                    erection of a permanent building.
            Tarkington in his Autobiograhy says; 
                        The next day I went on giving out appointments for the Reverend Garner, and that night got to
                            O'Neals place. I preached there and after 
                        
                           9 Holiday, Indiana Methodism, 26.
                        
                           10
                                    Western Christian Advocate. Feb. 10, 1858.
                        
                           11 Holiday, Indiana Methodism, 99.
                     
                             the sermon Major O'Neal said that he was going
                            to move away and would be gone before the minister made his next round and wanted to know
                            who of those present would open their house for the preaching. All were silent for some time
                            and then Major David Robb arose and said, 'Rather than have no preaching in the
                            neighborhood, I will open my house. I have a large bar-room and there are several sinners at
                            my house. If you will accept of what I have you are welcome', So the appointment
                            was made and given out for the preaching at Major Robb's place near 
                                Princeton
                             in two weeks. The Major treated the preachers well all year and though he never
                            made profession of religion, yet all the female members of his family became
                            religious".
                    
            
            In fact it was a pretty well established theory that every settlement and blockhouse was visited by
                    these bold itinerants who did not scorn to preach in the bar-room of the taverns, in the towns, in
                    the forts, in the block-houses, and in the groves as well as in the cabins of the early settlers.12 Such examples of influence wielded by Methodism might be increased ad
                    infinitum, but these will serve to show the tendency of the times.
            In the meantime more and more Methodist societies came to be formed. The membership and the number of
                    local preachers and circuits grew quite rapidly. By 1810 there were 755 Methodists in the state out
                    of a population of 24,520-slightly more than three per cent. Besides this the doctrines and usages
                    of the sect were fast coming to be understood and appreciated by observing friends of the church.
            As time passed many of the ministers became more and more earnest in their temperance measures.
                    Gradually those who occasionally drank quit the habit and, those who drank much began to make it
                    occasional. In additional to this they begun to urge temperance reforms upon their members. Their
                    attitude may well be illustrated by a minister by the name of Cravens who rarely preached a sermon
                    without making those who made, sold or drank intoxicating drinks feel uneasy. 
                        On one of his circuits a brother was accused of unnecessarily drinking ardent spirits. He was
                            cited to trial and found guilty. The committee was anxious to save him to the church and
                            wished to know whether he would quit the habit of dram-drinking. After some reflection he
                            said that he would try to quit. It was evident, however, that he did not feel any particular
                            guilt attached to his conduct, and that the church was rather 
                        
                           12 Holiday, Indiana Methodism, 100.
                     
                             an interference with his personal rights; but rather than
                            leave the church he would promise to try to quit; and on that promise the committee retained
                            him. 'But' said Cravens, 'Brother, you must
                            quit'. That was more than the brother would promise to do, so Cravens carried the
                            case up to the next quarterly conference and the brother was required to give up his drams
                            or his church. He concluded to give up the former and doubtless owed his salvation from a
                            drunkard's grave to the uncompromising integrity of his pastor.13
                  
                    
            
            It has been well said that Cravens made an impression in favor of Methodism and against intemperance
                    that has never faded out to this day. And so it was with a great many of these early heroic souls.
            But in spite of Methodist and other agitations against drinking very little was done to further the
                    temperence cause during this pre-state period. In the very beginning of the territory, however, the
                    governor found that the liquor traffic was troublesome and in a little more than six months after
                    his arrival, issued a proclamation which forbade any trader to sell whiskey or other liquor to the
                    Indians in 
                        Vincennes
                    . If a trader sold at all he was compelled to deliver it to the buyer at least one mile
                    from town, or on the west side of the 
                        Wabash
                    .14
            
            Two other early acts, passed by the territorial legislature also dealt with selling liquors to
                    Indians. Because of the dangers caused by disposing of intoxicating beverages to the red men it was
                    made a crime to furnish any of them with any kind of "fire-water". Breaking the
                    law was punishable by a fine of not less than five nor more than one hundred dollars. It took effect
                    August 15, 1805.15 During the following year another act was passed also
                    affecting the Indian. It ordered that any trader or other person residing within forty miles of 
                        Vincennes
                    , or who came into or passed through such territory and who sold, gave or presumed to
                    sell or give any intoxicating liquors of any description to the aborigines should be fined upon
                    conviction in the sum not less than five nor more than one hundred dollars. This was done to
                    safeguard the settlement 
                  
                     13 Holiday, Indiana Methodism, 57-8-9.
                  
                     14
                            Executive Journal, Indiana Territory, 102-3. The white man usually got the
                            Indian drunk, then robbed him. In his effort to retaliate the Indiana often committed petty
                            crime which brought him within the limits of the law.
                  
                     15
                            Laws of Indiana Territory, 1805. pp 5-6.
               
                     from depredations while the red man might be in a state of
                        intoxication.16
            
            Later another act was passed to regulate the traffic generally. This was in 1807. It provided that
                    before anyone could keep an inn or tavern a permission or license must be obtained from the court of
                    common pleas. Such license was good for one year or until the next meeting of the court. Besides
                    this, they had also to give bond in the sum of three hundred dollars to the governor, pending good
                    behavior, strict observance of the laws and the like. A few provisions were added regarding the
                    place of business the house must be kept orderly no drunkenness, or unlawful games being allowed17 no minors were permitted to buy or drink any liquors; and good accomodations
                    had to be provided for both man and horse. No person unless qualified by law could sell liquor in
                    less quantities than one quart. Adequate penalties were provided for the law breaker. In addition to
                    this the law further proposed that the governor should issue a proclamation forbidding the sale or
                    gift of any ardent spirits to any Indian within thirty miles of any council, treaty meeting, or
                    conference. Violators of this act were to be fined not less than fifty dollars nor more than five
                    hundred dollars.17 With the exception of some slight amendments to this law in
                    1813 no further legislation took place in the history of the territory.18
            
            Summing up then, it cannot be said that the Methodist church had any direct influence on these
                    temperance legislative movements. There had been influence of an indirect nature such as preaching
                    and admonitions, but at this time even this might be said to have been slight. This is by no means
                    intended to be derogatory to the Methodist church but rather to show that the nature of the times
                    and conditions did not make it a crime or a sin to drink liquors. And since practically everyone
                    thought it was perfectly all right to drink occasionally no action was likely to be taken. The
                    public mind had not yet been awakened to the baneful influence of dram-drinking.
            But after 1816 conditions in the state settled down to a slow steady growth and took on a more rosy
                    aspect. The population 
                  
                     16
                            Laws of Indiana Territory, 1806. p 29.
                  
                     17
                            Laws of Indiana Territory, 1807. pp 87-92.
                  
                     18
                            Laws of Indiana Territory, 1818. pp 8-10.
               
                     increased steadily from 24,520 in 1810 to 147,178 in 1820 and
                    from that to 343,031 in 1830. With this growth came the development of the institutions of
                    government, of school systems, of social life, of religion, and of intemperance. Methodism had grown
                    from 755 in 1810 to 4410 in 1820 and from that to 7,551 in 1830. Truly a remarkable growth. Other
                    churches began to spring up, but no other society appeared before 1824 so the drinking customs and
                    habits remained much the same until after that year.
            Yet in spite of the comparative lack of sentiment some extension of liquor legislation relative to
                    regulation was attempted in 1817 for during that year it was made a crime to sell any liquors on
                    Sunday. A fine of three dollars for each offense was the penalty.19 Again in
                    1818 the question of regulation was up before the law-makers. The board of commissioners of each
                    county was authorized to license at their meetings every person who applied for such license
                    provided the applicant could produce the signatures of twelve respectable householders certifying
                    that such person was of a good moral character, that it would be for the convenience of travelers
                    and beneficial to the community. Moreover, the applicant was bonded in the sum of five thousand
                    dollars not to sell on Sunday, or permit gambling, or disorderly conduct on his premises. The
                    license was good for one year, but provided that no liquor could be sold to a minor, to apprentices,
                    to servants, or to anyone in a state of intoxication. All fines were to go to the county seminaries.
                    The commissioners also fixed the rate, which the tavern keeper was required to keep posted. Failure
                    to do this or selling at a higher rate was punishable by a fine of three dollars, and a
                    clerk's fee of twenty-five cents.20
            
            No other legislation appeared before 1820. Then it provided that should tavern-keepers fail to set up
                    for one whole day the price list, and should charge more than the law allowed they might be fined
                    not less than five nor more than fifty dollars.21
            
            Two laws amending former acts were passed in 1824. One 
                  
                     19
                            Laws of Indiana Territory, 1817 p 166.
                  
                     20
                            Laws of Indiana, 1817-18 Vol. II. pp 196-9. Another act the same year
                                provided for a fine of three dollars for the tavern keeper who sold on Sunday except to
                                travelers. Laws of Indiana, 1818. p. 814.
                  
                  
                     21
                            Laws of Indiana, 1820. pp 87-88. Another act of this year did away with
                                gambling.
                  
               
                     of these provided that the commissioners should look into their
                    price lists and profits and then grade the license fee accordingly. It was to be not less than five
                    nor more than twenty-five dollars.22 Another act provided a fine of not less
                    than fifty nor more than two hundred dollars for allowing gambling on the premises; a fine of not
                    less than two nor more than twenty for selling without license; a fine not less than five nor more
                    than fifty for not posting price list from day to day; and, a fine of not more than three dollars
                    for selling on Sunday.23
            
            The act of 1825 increased the number of free-holders who must sign the application for a license from
                    twelve to twenty-four; this application had to state that the applicant was of good moral character;
                    that it would be for the benefit of the traveling public to have such a tavern; and that it was
                    conducive to the public good. Moreover, such applicant had to prove to the satisfaction of the board
                    of justices that he or she was and would be a resident of the town or village for at least one year,
                    and be the owner of at least two beds and bedding over and above that for family use. They were also
                    by this law required to keep good stabling for at least four horses. The license cost five to
                    twenty-five dollars in addition to which they had to give bond with freehold security.24
            
            In 1828 there was a return to the former law which required but twelve signatures. They had to give
                    bond as required by the previous laws except as regard the bedding and stabling. It was also made
                    possible for a majority of free-holders of any town or township to prevent the granting of a license
                    by a remonstrance.25
            
            This summary has been sufficient to show that no attempt to eradicate the liquor traffic had been
                    made-only regulation had been attempted. At that, much of their time and efforts had been consumed
                    in changing back and forth from one law to another in attempt to reduce to the lowest point
                    depredations and suffering. And still public sentiment had hardly been aroused on the subject.
                    Conditions were about the same as in the days when the state was a territory. With the exception of
                        
                  
                     22
                            Laws of Indiana, 1824. p 889.
                  
                     23
                            Laws of Indiana, 1824, p 146.
                  
                     24
                            Laws of Indiana, 1824-5. pp 406-7.
                  
                     25
                            Laws of Indiana, 1828. pp 79-80.
               
                     some spasmodic attempts on the part of the Methodists and other
                    churches practically nothing had been accomplished to enlighten the people.
            PERIOD OF ENLIGHTENMENT 
            Due particularly to the effort of the early circuit-riders the idea of prohibition was brought into
                    the various settlements of the state at the close of the first quarter of the nineteenth century.
                    This resulted in feeble movements looking toward the formation of some total abstinence societies.
                    The first of these appeared some time during the year 1824. It was a volunteer society whose members
                    pledged themselves not to furnish whiskey at "raisings and log-rollings".1 It was composed of the best class af people, most of whom seem to have been
                    members of various churches, chief of which was the Methodist. This first society has sometimes been
                    called the "teetotalers" or "total abstinence society."
            From this the movement spread. Zealous preachers of temperance went into every part of the country
                    and it was not long before the American Temperance Society formed.2 This was in
                    1826. However, it is doubtful whether this movement had any great effect on the state before the
                    year 1830. In 1828 still other parts of the state organized temperance socities, and by 1829 there
                    was a united effort at 
                        Indianapolis
                     which has continued in some form ever since.3
            
            Even though these total abstinence societies had come into existence it is doubtful whether they were
                    of much significance outside of the fact that they were forerunners of a great movement. Although no
                    statistics are available it is quite safe to assume that the churces were the leaders in the
                    movement. The attempts at reformation through the churches began about the time that the territory
                    was admitted into the union and sermons agains the use of liquor as a beverage increased from year
                    to year. This proved to be the only means of enlightenment on the subject the people had. With them,
                    too, it was strictly a moral issue not political. Later, however, it became gradually a political as
                    well as a moral issue.
            
               
                  1 Wood, Sketches and Things and People in Indiana. 47.
               
                  2 Shadwell, Drink, Temperance and Legislation. 91.
               
                  3 Wood, Sketches and Things and People in Indiana. p.
                        48.
            
            
            As also noted in the first chapter, a great wave of social enlightenment swept over the entire
                    country at the beginning of the thirties. This spread of intelligence brought about everywhere a
                    movement to reform manners. Particularly was attention directed to the misuse of spiritous
                        liquors.4 And each succeeding wave of reform for the next twenty years
                    reached higher than the preceeding one. This enlightenment took countless forms.
            Along with this social regeneration came better conditions in the state. The population almost
                    trebled between 1820 and 1830 so that at the latter date about a million people inhabited the state.
                    Education grew by leaps and bounds; schools and colleges sprang up all over the various section of
                    the state4 transportation and other means of communication increased, and
                    churches rose as if by magic. Methodism grew from a church of 17,551 to one of 74,583 at the close
                    of 1850-seven percent of the entire population.5 While not as large as the
                    Methodist the other denominations increased in like proportion. Naturally enough, too, the liquor
                    traffic increased greatly. 
                        Grog shops have been reared in almost every neighborhood, and ardent spirits as a drink have
                            become quite fashionable among all classes.6
                  
                    
            
            But if intemperance increased so had the agitation against it. As if in accordance with the upheaval
                    during the thirties and forties the churches began, in their official capacity, to speak out on the
                    subject. This time the records of the Methodist conference show a particular activity in the number
                    of resolutions adopted and assistance offered. Preachers were admonished to speak as often and as
                    stronly against the traffic as was deemed practicable.7 As an example of the
                    scores of these resolutions adopted by the Indiana conferences we quote the following one: 
                        Whereas the cause of temperance holds high rank among the various enterprises of moral reform
                            which now engage the attention of the public, we believe it to be the important duty of
                            every lover of his country, and religion, thus to render a hearty co-operation in the
                            promotion of its 
                        
                           4 Bassett, A Short History of the 
                                            United States
                                        . 480.
                        
                           5 These statistics of the church were taken from the report of
                                    the Indiana M. E. Convention held in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     Oct. 18-20, 1870.
                        
                           6
                                    Western Christian Advocate, 1857. p. 7.
                        
                           7 Strange to relate the Christian Advocate and
                                        Journal, the oldest and most influential organ of the Methodist church in
                                    the west, opposed teetotalism, editorially, as contradicting the acts of the Savior
                                    and the advice of Paul.
                     
                             interests and in firmly securing in its behalf, the
                            public confidence. To accomplish this object, we do not suppose it necessary now, as
                            heretofore, to defend either the propriety of the cause or what we regard as well
                            ascertained fact in the doctrine of temperance, namely, that total abstinence is the only
                            effectual remedy for the evil of intemperance. And we regard it as the duty of every
                            philanthropist, and specially of every Methodist, to continue his opposition, and even with
                            more zeal to assail, and, if possible, to overthrow the guilty practice of inebriation, and
                            all the forms of temptation which are constantly before our citizens, particularly the
                            youth, and such reformed inebriates as has been sought out and redeemed from their brothels
                            and coffe-house associations.
                        That we may render timely aid in this work, we invite your attention to the subject of
                            memorializing the convention now in session in Indiana for the purpose of amending the
                            constitution of the state, and that we, in connection with other petitioners, most
                            respectfully urge upon them the propriety of forbidding the granting of license by future
                            legislation.___ We would, therefore, submit for your
                            consideration and adoption the fillowing resolutions: 
                        Resolved: that as a conference, we continue to have unabated confidence in the
                                    rules of our Disciples in reference to the manufacture, sale and use of intoxicating
                                    drinks, and that we cordially approbate the ministerial fidelity which has
                                    ordinarily characteried the administration of our Discipline, on this subject,
                                    within the bounds of the conference.
                        Resolved: That we regard the church of God as the most hopeful instrument of moral
                                    reform: and to it mainly are we to look for success in our opposition to the great
                                    evil of intemperance.
                        Resolved: That so far as is consistent with our pastoral duties and Gospel
                                    vocations, we will co-operate with the various temperance organizations in promoting
                                    the cause of temperance. Yet we do not, and will not, countenance any agent or
                                    lecturer on the subject whose habit it is to denounce the church or its ministers as
                                    opposed to the cause af temperance, or who in their public addresses, indulge in
                                    ribaldry, obscene jests, or slanderous
                                    misrepresentations___ things totally unbecoming our
                                    pulpits, and ruinous subversive to Christian dignity and the sacredness of
                                    God's house.
                        Resolved: That we will memorialize the state convention now in session, to
                                    prohibit in the new Constitution the licenseing of tippling houses.8
                        
                     
                  
                        Thomas H. Rucker
                        G. W. Walker
                        Thomas A. Goodwin. Committee.
                    
            
            After 1840 a great many temperance societies began to be formed. A new society known as the
                    Washingtonians was organied in 1841. It had been formed in 
                        Washington
                     some time 
                  
                     8
                            Indiana Conference Minutes, 1850. pp. 21-2.
               
                     during the winter by a few drunkards, who, at the debauch one
                    night signed the following pledge: 
                        We, whose names are annexed, are desirous of forming a society for our mutual benefit and to
                            guard against a practice, a pernicious practice, which is injurious to health, standing, and
                            families, do pledge ourselves as gentlemen, that we will not drink any spirit or malt
                            liquor, wine or cider. Signed,
                        W. K. Mitchell, Tailor.
                        J. F. Hoss, Carpenter.
                        James McCurley, Coachmaker
                        David Anderson, Blacksmith.
                        George Steers, Blacksmith.
                        Archibald 
                                Campbell
                            , Silversmith.9
                  
                    
            
            From this meagre beginning it spread rapidly until it reached its height. Songs and poems were
                    printed and sung by the hundreds.10 Thousands of people joined the society in
                    less than a year. But the high tide did not last long for it began to subside in 1842 and had
                    entirely spent its force by 1843.
            So numerous were these songs that it is well to give one here.
            
                    WASHINGTONIAN SONG 
                    (Composed for the society at Parkersburg, Indiana)
                    Some sing the praise of rosy wine Its sparkling color bright; But in such songs with them to
                        join, We cannot take delight. We have a rich and noble theme, Fit for a Prince or King
                        'Tis water, pure, and fresh, and good From Parker's village spring.
                    This will give health, and joy, and peace, Refreshing every power; We want no better drink than
                        this, In trial's darkest hour. To cheer the heart and quench the thirst, It is the
                        very thing; Then give us water pure and good, From Parker's village spring.
                    
                  
                     9
                            Cyclopedia of Temperance and Prohibition. 649.
                  
                     10 Temperance Society at Greecastle, 1842. p. 29.
               
                    
                    The natives from this living spring, Drank many years ago; And from this fountain water clear,
                        Continues still to flow. Then we on this our festal day, Will of its virtue sing And drink this
                        water pure and good From Parker's village spring.
                    January 8, 1843. J. Hosteller.
                
            But as this movement died away another rose into prominence. The Sons of Temperance, organized in
                    1842, became for the next decade the conservator of temperance work in Indiana. The first division
                    was not organized within the state until November 15, 1845. This took place at 
                        Brookville
                    .11 It had three objects in view, but the temperance issue was
                    emphasized more strongly than the others. They were as follows: 
                        
                     To shield themselves from the evils of intemperance.
                     To afford mutual assistance in case of sickness.
                     To elevate their character as men.12
                     
                  
                     It enrolled people of all ages, sex, color, wealth and poverty; and while classed as a
                    secret temperance society it had no mystic features such as the handshake, sign or degree. However,
                    a ritual service was given and dues were charged the members. Its influence was catching and soon
                    men went into the order by the thousands. It found friends and advocates in the most cultured
                    circles. Leading lawyers. doctors, merchants, preachers and even politicians were found working side
                    by side in it. As a result it grew from the meagre beginning of one chapter in 1845 to 171 divisions
                    in 1848, 232 by the middle of 1849, 283 by the end of the same year and more than 370 by the close
                    of 1850.13 In their ninth annual report twenty-three proposition were presented
                    concerning the amount of knowledge disseminated by their conventions, societies, ecclesiastical
                    orders, and the like. The last proposition dealt especially with the 
                  
                     11
                            Minutes and Proceedings of the State Temperannes Convention. 1-16.
                  
                     12
                            Cyclopedia of Temperance and Prohibition. 611-2.
                  
                     13 The Preamble of Constitutions of Sons of Temperance of 
                                Madison
                            : "We, whose names are annexed, desirous of forming a society to shield
                            us from the evils of intemperance, afford mutial assistance in case of sickness, and elevate
                            our characters as men-do pledge ourselves to be govered by the following constitution and
                            By-laws." Pledge follows: "No brother shall make, buy, sell or use as a
                            beverage, any spirituos, or malt liquors, wies or elders. Age over 18. Fee $8.
                            Black ball system of election." Constitution and By-laws of 
                                    Madison
                                 Division, Number 8. pp. 1-16.
               
                     attitude of the church toward the movement and read as follows:
                        
                        Especially it is wrong for professed christian to thus use, make or furnish liquor; more
                            especially still, for officers of the church, and ministers of the gospel-as the better the
                            character and the greater the influence of those who pursue a wrong practice, the more
                            extensively will it be initiated, the longer it will be continued, and the greater the
                            mischief it will be likely to do.14
                  
                    
            
            Later, in 1854, they raised $11,490, to which ninety counties contributed, for a thorough
                    organization of the state. This appears to be the first time that any considerable sum of money was
                    raised to combat the evil.15
            
            The official publication of the organization was the Family Visitor, a weekly newspaper published in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and edited by B. F. Cavanaugh. It began sometime during the month of June 1848 and
                    continued for several years. it contained temperance arguments, minutes of meetings, advertisements,
                    parodies on poems, etc.16
            
            A sort of sister organization to the Sons of Temperance was the order of the Daughters of Temperance.
                    They were organized in 1848 and had their first annual session at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , October 17, 1849. They did some very earnest and efficient work.17
            
            The Cadets of Temperance, a junior temprance society, was organized at the same time as the Sons of
                    Temperance. It was open to the members of either sex between the ages of twelve and twenty-one. One
                    of the rquirments for membership was good character, in addition to which they were obliged to take
                    an obligation not to drink liquors as a beverage. Later the movement spread over a great many states
                    and gained considerable momentum in Indiana.18
            
            
               
                  14
                        Western Christian Advocate, 1858.
               
                  15
                        Minutes and Proceedings of the State Temperance Convention, 1-16.
               
                  16
                        Family Visitor, 1848-51. "Our poick says:
                        Of all the kings he ever knew
                        From old King Cole to poor lean Thin-King;
                        The hardest king of all to serve,
                        And most tyrannical is Drin-King." Family Visitor, June 10,
                        1850.
               
               
                  17
                        Family Visitor, Oct. 4, 1849.
               
                  18
                        Cyclopedia of Temperance and Prohibition, 60. A banner the Cadets carried
                            read as follows:
                        "Cadets of Temperance we will dare
                        To climb the steeps of fame, and share
                        A nation's love, a priceless gem,
                        Who wins it wants no diadem." Family Visitor. July 12,
                    1848.
               
            
            
            Sometime during the year of 1845 a small body of the Sons of Temperance organized a society within
                    their own organization and called themselves the Templars of Honor and Temperance. It broke away
                    from the older organization in 1849, becoming from that time on a distinct and separate society. Not
                    a great deal is heard of them so it is doubtful whether they had much influence on the temperance
                    situation in the state.
            Before the end of this year 1855 the Order of Good Templars, another temperance organization had
                    found its way to Indiana. This society was much the same as the others. Their pledge read: 
                        No member shall make, buy, sell, use, furnish, or cause to be furnished to others as a
                            beverage, any spirituous or malt liquors, wine or cider; and, every member shall
                            discountenance the sale and use thereof in the proper ways.19
                  
                    
            
            While the order did powerful work at a period somewhat later, it did not add much to the general
                    agitation for temperance in the first great movement.
            With the coming of this new enlightenment churches, lodges and temperance societies all vied with
                    each other to see which could accomplish the greatest amount of good along that particular line. As
                    has been noted before the Methodists were particularly active during the later forties. Temperance
                    resolutions by the thousands were adopted and as a result a great amount of liquor legislation was
                    passed. This church legislation reflected back upon the people and caused them to agitate in the
                    legislative halls for reforms. Petitions were sent to the Assembly by the thousands. And since
                    practically all of our legislation comes as a result of the expressed will of the people we might
                    expect, then, some action on the subject. Such was the case.
            The period of legislation between 1830 and 1850 may be characterized as the period of local
                    legislation. Between these dates, inclusive, there were 126 legislative acts passed. A hasty summary
                    of these will suffice to show what was done. The acts of 1831 provide that there must be a town
                    license issued in addition to a county license. Moreover, It provided that all 
                  
                     19
                            Cyclopedia of Temperance and Prohibition, 241
               
                     taverns must keep a price list posted in a prominent place.
                    Failure to do this made them liable to a fine of five to fifty dollars. Besides this, nothing less
                    than a quart might be lawfully sold without a license.20 Penalties of from two
                    to fifty dollars provided for the evasion of the latter. In the law of 1832 there was a return to
                    the clause which required the person applying for a license to produce the certificate of
                    twenty-four respectable free-holders, inhabitants of that town or township, and certifying that the
                    applicant had a good moral character. In addition to this he must have a good house with two beds
                    besides those for the family use, a stable with four good stalls and bond himself that he would
                    allow no gambling on the premises. Groceries might be licensed in a manner similar to the tavern.
                    Other minor clauses were included but they were of no real consequence except the one that provided
                    that the cost of the license should be between ten and twenty-five dollars according to the size of
                    the place.21 A local act was also passed which made it lawful to sell liquor in
                    less quantities than a quart in New 
                        Albany
                    .22 Three more such acts in 1834 affected 
                  Richmond, Centerville
                and 
                        Lafayette
                     in a like manner.23 One in 1835 allowed no one to sell liquor in
                    less quantities than a quart in the town of 
                        Newport
                     without having a license for one year which cost between five and twenty-five dollars
                    according to the discretion of the town corporation. Penality for failure to abide by this was a
                    fine of five to fifty dollars.24 In 1836 eleven such acts were passed affecting
                    the towns and cities of 
                  Michigan City, New York
               , New 
                        Albany
                    , and 
                        Evansville
                    . They were in substance much the same as the one given in 
                  
                     20
                            Laws of Indiana, 1881, pp. 192-8. No gambling was permitted in the taverns
                            on pain of fine of two to five hundred dollars and forfeiture of license for one year.
                  
                     21
                            Laws of Indiana, 1832. pp 259-52.
                  
                     22
                            Laws of Indiana, 1832. pp 141-2.
                  
                     23
                            Laws of Indiana, 1934. pp. 125, 140 and 145. Respectively. "It
                                shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the bounds of the corporation (of 
                                    Centerville
                                ) to sell by less quantity than one quart, except for the use of the sick,
                                any spiritous liquors, foreign or domestic, or keep what is commonly called tippling
                                house, unless such person or persons shall, in addition to a license obtained from the
                                county board of commissioners, or the board doing county business, obtain a license from
                                the corporation, who is hereby authorized to grant the same for one year or less, at one
                                time, on his, or her, or their paying into the treasury of the corporation, a sum not
                                less than three nor more than fifty dollars at the discretion of the president and
                                trustees of said town." Penalty for infraction of this law was not less than
                                five nor more than fifty dollars. Acts, 1934. p.
                  
                  
                     24
                            Laws of Indiana, 1834-4. p. 187.
               
                     the footnote below.25 In 1837 nine more were
                    added to the these; on providing for a taxation of the license of not more than one hundred dollars
                    and not less than ten;26 and, the other eight effecting the towns of
                            
                  Bloomfield, Knightstown, Cleveland, Shelbyville, Greensburg,
                            Bethlehem, Greenfield
               , and the city of 
                        Lafayette
                    .27
            
            And so it runs. In 1838 there were twenty such local laws;28 in 1839, eleven;;29 in 1840, five;30 and, in 1841, six.31
                    One of these acts declared it to be a nuisance to keep a tavern in a disorderly manner. The penalty
                    was a fine of twenty-five to one hundred dollars. Still another act the same year raised the price
                    of the license to sell no less than twenty-five nor more than two hundred dollars according to the
                    size of the place.32 In 1842 two such acts were passed in extension of the one
                    the year previous. One of these affected 
                        Marion county
                     and the other the counties of Carrol and Cass.33 The year 1843
                    brought three more into existence;34 and, between the years 1844 and 1846 ten
                    more such acts made their advent.35 Such was the period of local legislation,
                    which did not end, however, entirely until after the constitutional convention of 1850 and the
                    formal adoption of the document framed at that time.
            In 1847, however, at one stroke a general law was passed providing that if a majority of all the
                    voters in the township should vote no-license then there would be none for that year. 
                  
                     25
                            Local Law of Indiana, 1836, pp. 13, 30, 37, 46, 52, 59, 66, 68, 74, 81,
                            88.
                  
                     26
                            Laws of Indiana, 1836-7. p. 110.
                  
                     27
                            Local Laws of Indiana, 1837. pp. 25, 45, 86, 87, 100, 105, 143, 218. (The
                            page references are not given in the respective order in which they occur.)
                  
                     28
                            Local Laws, 1838, pp. 33, 43, 50, 58, 62, 76, 82, 88, 98, 104, 106, 110,
                            116, 127, 129, 130, 277, 381. Also Laws of Indiana 1838, p. 592.
                            "Be it further enacted that no person shall sell or vend any spiritous liquors
                                (regular licensed tavern keepers excepted), malt or fermented liquors in said
                                corporation by retail, that is to say, by less quantity than a quart at a time without a
                                license from the board of trustees, under the penalty of ten dollars for every offense,
                                to be recovered in the name of the president and the trustees of the town of 
                                    Jeffersonville
                                , before any Justice of the Peace in said corporation." Local Laws, 1838, Chap. XX, Sect. 5, p. 129.
                  
                  
                     29
                            Local Laws, 1839, pp. 16, 37, 41, 49, 84, 109, 126, 171 339. One act of
                                1839 was a state wide law and provided that each license to sell spiritous liquors
                                should cost from twenty-five to one hundred dollars.
                  
                  
                     30
                            Local Laws, 1840, pp. 25, 40, 56, 67, 76.
                  
                     31
                            Local Laws, 1840, pp. 38, 83, 97, 115.
                  
                     32
                            Local Laws 1840, pp. 166, 40-42.
                  
                     33
                            Local Laws, 1842, p. 127; Acts of 1842. p. 156.
                  
                     34
                            Acts of 1843, pp. 100, 106; Revised Statues of 1848, pp.
                            235, 392.
                  
                     35
                            Acts of 1844, pp. 69, 92, 109; Local Laws of 1843, p.
                            50. 
                        Local Laws of 1845, pp. 70, 132.
                            
                        Local Laws of 1846, pp. 98, 108, 245, 269.
                  
               
                     In addition to this eleven local acts were passed which read
                    much the same as the years previous.36 But this did not solve the problem
                    although it was somewhat of a concession to the temperance forces. It still recognized the right to
                    keep a tippling house as a natural and inherent one. These were helpful movements, though, and
                    higher and higher rose the sentiment in favor of more stringent legislation. An amendment to the
                    constitution was even mentioned quite seriously. The church temperance workers aided by the moral
                    forces of all kinds appeared to be headed toward certain victory so great had grown public opinion
                    in that direction. The legislation of the years from 1848 to 1852 inclusive need not be mentioned in
                    detail here for it was practically the same in nature as that of the few years preceding.37 The next year, however, produced legislation of a far deeper significance.
            The law of 1835 was a composite of all of the best features of the local, county and town laws of the
                    past decade. Local option in a better form than at any time previous was the added characteristic.
                    The township was made the unit and only those votes might be counted that were cast for or against
                    the license; no provision was made for a majority of all the votes in the township. As before,
                    proper bond had to be given; an orderly house had to be maintained; and, intoxication was forbidden.
                    No municipal corporation could receive money for a license; and, adequate penalties were provided
                    for anyone who broke the law.38 But such a law seemed to be too much in advance
                    of public opinion and it fell. No doubt the cause of its fall was the local option clause which had
                    been added on this occasion. It was during this year, too, that the church people succeeded in
                    getting a law passed to prevent the retailing or selling of liquor near any of their meeting
                        places.39
            
            
               
                  36
                        Local Laws of 1847, p 3, 46, 101, 191, 194, 214, 350, 372, 382,
                        401, 413.
               
                  37 Forty-nine acts both local and state passed during these years. 
                     Local Laws of 1848, p 92, 279, 281, 409, 476, 534, 586.
                        
                     Local Laws of 1849, pp. 83, 84, 85, 164, 194.
                        
                     Acts of 1849, pp. 82, 373.
                        
                     Local Laws of 1850, p. 218.
                        
                     Acts of 1850, pp. 119, 120, 121, 123, 124, 125, 126, 127, 129, 130.
               
               
                  38
                        Laws of Indiana, 1858, p. 87.
               
                  38 "If any person shall erect, bring, keep, continue, or maintain
                        any booth, tent, wagon, huckster, shop, or other place for sale of intoxicating liquors, elder,
                        beer, or other drinks, or for the sale of any other article whatever; or shall sell or give away
                        any intoxicating liquors, or shall sell any cider, beer, or other drink or any other article
                        whatever, within two miles of any collection of any inhabitants of the state, met together for
                        worship, or shall in any manner molest them shall be fined not more than fifty nor than less
                        than five dollars. Acts of 1853, p. 90.
            
            
            We pass now to a consideration of the most important single event of the first period. In order to
                    understand it some of the agitation, especially in the political world should be noted. First during
                    the campaign of 1854 came the famous "Hatchet Crusade" with its influence. Fifty
                    women headed by a resolute girl went forth at Winchester and destroyed several saloons. Similar
                    "appeals" were made at 
                        Cambridge City
                    . At 
                        Centerville
                     the ladies became tired of the liquor traffic and bought up all the liquor of the grog
                    sellers and destroyed it-having first obtained a pledge from them that they would never sell any
                    more liquid poison. The ladies paid one hundred and forty dollars for the liquor which they
                        destroyed.40 But besides such entreaties as these, conventions and meetings
                    were held all over the state in the interest of the anti-liquor forces. The 
                        Dearborn county
                     quarterly temperance meeting held at Auora was characterized by the true spirit. It
                    expressed the sentiment that they would not cease to speak, work and vote in favor of the proposed
                    prohibitory law until it "adorns the statue books and blessed the state."41 It seems that the tide of public sentiment in favor of a prohibitory law was
                    setting in strongly. Speakers of talent, various organs of the press, ministers of the gospel, the
                    aching hearts of hundreds of women all spoke with eloquent and pleading message in behalf of this
                    reform movement.
            Finally after an immense amount of organization and work, and of "stump-speaking"
                    the convention was held.42 After the nominations were made it was found that the
                    results were entirely satisfactory and acceptable to the temperance people; and, with one or more
                    representative temperance men on the ticket, it adopted the following policy; 
                        Resolved: That we are in favor of a judicial, constitutional and effecient prohibitory
                                law.48
                  
                    
            
            During the campaign that followed the preachers of all denominations united their efforts in the
                    great work; and, not nearly all their labors were confined to the pulpit. In hundreds of places it
                    was by the direct solicitation of the politicians that 
                  
                     40
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1855 p. 61.
                  
                     41
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1854. p. 8.
                  
                     42 The Temperance Spontoon was an early publication
                            by the Rev. T. A. Goodwin, of 
                                Brookville
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     43 Goodwin, Liquor Laws, 12.
               
                     they addressed large political gatherings. At such meetings and
                    conventions they constantly referred to the iniquity of whiskey drinking. Nor only this, the
                    ministers of all denominations used every exertion to prejudice their members against the Democratic
                    party, which had early lined up on the side of the liquor elements.
            The day of the election came at last. Out of the hundred representatives elected fifty-six of them
                    had already pledged themselves to support the phohibition measures; and, fourteen of the twenty-five
                    senators were also pledged to the same cause. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel speaking of the election said: 
                        We had to fight the church, the flesh, and the devil; the church in the temporance question;
                            the flesh in the Old Whigs and the Devil in the Know-Nothings.
                    
            
            With such a body of men pledged to support a prohibition measure and countless petitions being
                    received daily there could be only one result.44 Consequently, when the Assembly
                    convened early in the year of 1855 it passed a law which read: 
                        No person or persons shall manufacture, keep for sale, or sell by himself, or agent, directly
                            or indirectly, any spirituous or intoxicating liquors.45
                  
                    
                    
                  
                            44
                            An extract taken from the speech of Governor Wright delivered at the opening of the
                                legislative assembly in this year gives a very clear idea of the attitude of the people
                                of the state at this time. It was as follows:
                            "No one can doubt that there is a strong public sentiment in Indiana in favor of
                                a change of our laws upon this subject (temperance); and it is the duty of the
                                peoples' servants to carry out that sentiment. It will give me pleasure to
                                co-operate with the representatives of the people in the adoption of any constitutional
                                measure that may be calculated to remove this acknowledged evil from the
                                state." From the Speech of Governor Wright taken from the 
                                    Greencastle
                                
                                Banner, January 17, 1855.
                            Petitions were received in great numbers daily. The Locomotive,
                                February 15, 1855.
                        
                  
                            45
                            
                        Acts of 1855, pp. 209-223. 
                            The vote on the prohibitory lay of 1855 was as follows:
                            Senate Vote, Affirmatives
                     
                            Anthony, Barnett, Bearss, Burke, Chapman, Combs, Cravens, Crnace, Crouse, Cutshaw, Ensey,
                                Freeland, Griggs, Harris, Hawthorn, Helm, Hendry, Hosbrook, Jackson of Madison, Jackson
                                of Tipton, Knightly, Meeker, Parker, Richardson of St. Joseph, Robinson, Rugg, Sage,
                                Shields, Shook, Suit, Vendevanter, Weston, Williams, Wilson and Woohs. Total 34.
                            
                                Negative:
                            
                            Alexander, 
                                    Brown
                                , Drew, Glazebrook, McCleary, Mansfield, Mathes, Richardson of Spencer,
                                Slater, Spann, Tarkington. Total 11. Senate Journal, 1855, p. 688.
                            House Vote, Affirmative:
                     
                            Beach, Clark of Rush, Clark of 
                                    Steuben
                                , Clark of Tippecance, Bonner, Branham Brazelton, Buchannan, Burnett, Cain,
                                Clark of Union, Coen. Dickerson, Dunn. Earl. Ellis, Fouts, Frazer, Fifferd, Gilham,
                                Guinn, Hadsell, Hall of Laporte, Hall of 
                                    Warren
                                , Harryman, Hervey, Hillyer, Hudson, Landers, McConnell, McCord, McMurry,
                                Malick, Meredith, Merrifield, Monks, Murrey, Newcomb, Peckenpaugh, Reden, Sanford, Sims,
                                Test, Thomas, Todd, Trusler, Turner, Wilson and Mr. Speaker. Total 54.
                            
                                Negative:
                            
                            Alden, Buskirk, Carnshan, Clark of 
                                    Jasper
                                , Cotton, Crozier, Gordon, Hargrove, Hester, Humphreys, Hunt, Jeter, King of
                                Johnson, King of 
                                    Madison
                                , Lemmon, Lowe, McFarland, Miller, 
                                    Montgomery
                                , Peyton, Shull, Sturgis, Usry, Walpole and Wheeler. Total 25. House Journal, 1855, p. 695. Credit for preparing and drafting the temperance
                                law as it passed the legislature was due to Representative H. C. Newcombe. The Locomotive, February 15, 1855.
                        
               
                     Exception was made for medicinal, chemical, mechanical and
                    sacramental purposes; neither did it prohibit people from making and selling cider, wines, etc., in
                    quantities of three or more gallons; nor was the sale of intoxicants by importers to be prohibited,
                    providing proof could be established that it had been imported. In addition to this the county
                    commissioners might authorize persons to manufacture and sell providing they gave proper bond to
                    observe all laws and regulations. Many other clauses were also incorporated but these are sufficient
                    to understand the nature of the law. It took effect on June 12, 1855; and, it had hardly begun to
                    operate before it was an assured success. For one hundred and forty-eight days it worked, and worked
                    so admirably that every moral man of the day pronounced it a complete success. Even the liquor men
                    admitted it while they made preparations for its destruction.
            Then came the fall. On July 2 Rhoderick Beebe, a tony saloon-keeper of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , openly made and sold beer in his place of business. He was immediately arrested and
                    fined fifty dollars. This, however, he refused to pay and as a consequence was sent to jail from
                    which he shortly obtained a writ of habeascorpus. The county court upheld the law and an appeal was
                    made to the supreme court of the state. Before the case really came to the court the attorney for
                    the state asked for more time to prepare his arguments. As a result the court was adjourned and the
                    case held over until the November term. But the liquor forces were anxious. Through them it had been
                    discovered that Judge Perkins of the supreme court was opposed to the law. And on August 23 he
                    called on his colleagues to meet in the chambers of the court-room to decide the case. The other
                    judges, particularly Gookins and Stuart refused to come, for Perkins had no right to make such a
                    call. In this manner things dragged on until November 8 when a boy in a saloon, by the name of
                    Herman, openly violated the law. He was taken before the mayor and fined, but refusing to pay he was
                    sent to jail. He was hardly in before Judge Perkins issued a writ of habeas corpus in his behalf.
                    Later when he was brought before the same judge for trial, the attorney for the defense proposed to
                    submit the case on the same argument that had been prepared for the Beebe case, and the attorney for
                    the state consented.  This practically ended the case, for the
                    judge, after a lengthy discourse on the relative merits of the law and the repetition of a few of
                    his own previously spoken arguments against the law, concluded by saying, "The law is void,
                    let the prisoner be discharged." It was this decision that opened the doors of the saloons
                    now for five months closed. Judge Davison concurred in the opinion; Judge Stewart held, that Beebe
                    was convicted rightly for selling, but should the record and returns be inadequate or defective the
                    decision for that reason only should be reversed; and Judge Gookins held that so far as the case
                    before the court brought different parts of the law up for consideration, it was constitutional and
                    the judgment of the court of common pleas ought to be confirmed. Such was the decision that was
                    handed down, and on this the law was declared unconstitutional.46
            
            The results have been far reaching in their extent. In the first place the outcome of the case was
                    telegraphed "to the boys" immediately. It was two o'clock when the
                    decision was made, yet before four the news had reached every town on any telegraph line in the
                    state. Then followed the jubilee. The night after would be better not described. It has been said,
                    however, that there were more drunks in Indiana five hours after the decision than there had been
                    during the entire five months of the existence of the prohibition law; murders were committed;
                    outrages perpetrated and depredations of all kinds abounded. The liquor forces had triumphed.
            In the second place there was a sad looking crowd in the camp of the defeated. From the hopeful,
                    buoyant and warlike conventions of the past two years it had now degenerated into a group of beaten,
                    disheartened and demoralized men. They were now in much the same position from the standpoint of
                    legislation as they had been in the early thirties. Their fondest hopes had been dashed aside, their
                    spirit all but broken2 their organizations in vain; the work of a quarter of a
                    century ruthlessly overthrown by the adverse power of a single individual, and their dreams of an
                    Utopian commonwealth dissipated. And so, disappointed and disheartened, these heroic workers again
                    took up the burden thrown upon 
                  
                     46 Beebe vs The State, 
                                Marion
                             C C P., November Term, 1855-6 Indiana Reports, 501.
               
                     them by a thoughtless and unfeeling advocate of the liquor
                    dealers. But in spite of all these great misfortunes they were able to keep alive that little spark
                    of divine inspiration that was later destined to enlighten practically the whole world. Things might
                    hinder them for the time being yet in the future they could go forth to battle again.
            
                    CIVIL WAR PERIOD
                
            The chaper that follows is a complicated one; and as a result of the disastrous defeat of the
                    temperance forces at the hands of one man, in many respect a sad one. After the annulment of the law
                    of 1855 only a fragment of the law of 1853 remained in force, and under the conditions it could
                    hardly be effective. In fact so worthless did it become that it was declared void during the session
                    of the legislature of 1859; and not the slightest difference in the amount or nature of the liquor
                    traffic was noticeable. From 1856 to 1859 was in reality a three years reign of
                    "booze". Add to that everything that the term implies; the arrogance of the
                    whiskey power; and the corresponding depression of the temperance men and one is able to get an
                    insight into the situation as it was a short time before the outbreak of the great war.
            As was natural, after the victory of the temperance forces in 1855, there was a great falling off in
                    their work-for had not the desired result been accomplished? There did not seem to be, on
                    the face of it, any necessity for the maintenance of any further temperance organizations. As a
                    result of this idea which grew up during the five months that the law worked, practically all of the
                    temperance societies had been discontinued; and about the only institutions that remained to fight
                    the liquor traffic for several years after that were the different orders, degrees and churches.
                    Among these was the Methodist church. Like the others she had labored in the great cause, but unlike
                    the others she still continued to labor for the enlightenment of the people along this particular
                    line. Her ministers and members had administered the pledge of the American Temperance Society to
                    thousands upon thousands. In addition to this thousands of Methodists were united  with the various lodges and temples in the state.1
                    And after the fall of the temperance forces in 1855 the members of this sect were particularly
                    admonished not to cease in their efforts, for now it was doubly important since there were no
                    temperance societies in active working order, and since there were other great and weighty problems
                    confronting the nation.2
            
            Shortly after the decision of Judge Perkins the Democrats of the state met in their convention and
                    adopted the same old resolution of bitter enmity toward any temperance legislation. Toward entire
                    prohibition they were conspicuously hostile. In the meantime, the Republicans, too, had met but they
                    adopted without hesitation and with almost unanimous voice a prohibitory resolution in almost the
                    same words as that of 1854. However, after adopting it as a part of their platform they promptly
                    forgot all about it, for during the campaign that followed it was not mentioned once. No preachers
                    were invited to make political speeches as in 1854; no prohibition votes were swung from the
                    Democratic party; and temperance became a side issue in politics. The measure had in reality ceased
                    to be an issue in politics although the churches failed to recognize for many years to come that
                    such was the case. As a result of the return of the former Democrats to their party and the
                    weariness of thousands who grew tired of the conflict as soon as they saw that it meant many years
                    of struggle before its culmination, the Republicans lost their prestige and the Democrats carried
                    the state by a majority of eight thousand one hundred ninety-one.3 With the
                    return of the Democrats came a tendency toward "open shop."
            Bleeding 
                        Kansas
                     and the Dred Scott Case; the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise and State Rights; Lincoln's election and the abilitionists fiery
                    utterances all in turn became the chief topics of conversation from day to day. As on-rushing clouds
                    of smoke in the west announce the aprpoach of a forest fire so did these happenings herald the
                    approach of the Civil War. People became absorbed in the slavery question; in the State Rights
                    arguments; and in equally momentous affairs of state. Their whole attention was presumably focused
                    on the great 
                  
                     1
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1867, p. 165.
                  
                            2
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     3 Goodwin, Liquor Laws, 23.
               
                     catastrophe which apparently loomed up before them. And so the
                    time glided by without much mention of of the temperance question.
            Then came the war. Can there be anything more all-absorbing than the preparations that followed;
                    anything more likely to claim and hold the interest of every individual2 or
                    anything more nerve-racking than the war itself? The news of a battle provoked bystanders
                    to applause; mothers to despair; and critics to abuse. News of a northern victory exalted the
                    multitudes of the north and depressed the south. It was the center of interest, the acme of life,
                    and the goal toward which all eyes involuntarily turned. Add to this the fact that a large per cent
                    of the men were at the front; that all of the availbale money wes spent for their equipment2 and that nearly all of the women were absorbed body and soul in caring for
                    their sons, brothers, husbands, fathers and sweethearts and one may get an idea of the many channels
                    into which flowed the public attention of the people of the north. Need it be necessary then to say
                    that all of the energies of the legislators and other government officials were directed toward this
                    one end-the winning of the war? And Indiana was one of the foremost in this respect;
                    hence it is only natural to understand that she was busy elsewhere. And so the temperance question
                    was practically abandoned for about a decade.
            Ample evidence is not lacking to substantiate the above remarks. Hundreds of statements in the
                    newspapers and periodicals of that day all testify to the truth of the assertion. One of these
                    remarks as follows: 
                        For some time I have observed a most fearful increase of drunkenness within the range of my
                            travel. While I am compelled to witness this alarming fact, another, hardly less indicative
                            of a retrograde movement, is that the religious press of the country has to a great extent
                            closed its mouth on the growing vice of intemperance.4
                  
                    
            
            Another publication of the time says: 
                        It cannot be concealed that in Indiana as in other states the cause of temperance has been
                            held in abeyance for several years by the more exciting interests of the war. The ten
                            thousand of houses of dissipation which are everywhere slaying at home more than disease and
                            battle combined are slaying in the army, cannot be denied.5
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  4
                        Christian Advocate and Journal, 1863, p. 10.
               
                  5
                        Western Christian Advocate, 1864, p. 368.
            
            
            As if in extension of this argument another article has this to say of the situation: 
                        The greatest evil of today is the rise of intoxicating liquor as a beverage. This has already
                            shown itself in the army. As soldiers are more profuse in their profanity than when at home
                            so they are more easily whirled away in their use of the dram cup. The unnatural life they
                            lead; its exposure by night and by day to the elements and to the enemy subject them to such
                            a test as no ordinary life would. This army usage has re-acted upon the greater army at
                            home. Our youths have imitated their vices quite as much as their virtues. The barriers
                            against this have been broken down. In our zeal to rebuild the union we have been careless
                            of the undermining of society by its most active enemy.6
                  
                    
            
            Further proof is furnished by E. E. Griswold, a temperance worker, who says: 
                        It is much to be feared that the temperance cause has within the last few years lost ground,
                            whether, if this fear be well grounded, the fact is due to unwise measures on the part of
                            the advocates and the supporters, or to the recent excitements and upheavals of society, the
                            writer will not undertake to determine. He strongly suspects that the retirement form the
                            advocacy of the ministers of religion leaving it in the hands of buffoons, and hireling
                            agents has had much to do with the result.7
                  
                    
            
            In the meantime the state had continued to grow. By 1860 the population had reached the mark of
                        1,350,428.8 Social and economic conditions had gradually grown better; from
                    an insignificant state of little worth a few decades previous it had sprung into great national
                    prominence; schools were a great deal better, in fact a system had been fairly well established;
                    colleges and universities had made their permanent appearance in almost every section of the state;
                    the liquor traffic in a more pronounced form than ever was still present; and free whiskey was one
                    of the novelties in almost every town and village in the state. And, almost, but not quite, keeping
                    pace with the growth of these various institutions were the churches. At this time there were eight
                    principal protestant denominations, chief among which were the Methodists. In 1860 they boasted of a
                    membership of 96,965 as compared with 74,583 for 1850. This was a percentage of seven and one-tenth
                    of the whole population. By 1870, in 
                  
                     6
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1865, p. 66.
                  
                     7
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1865, p. 66.
               
                     spite of the war, the population of the state had grown to
                    1,668,000 and Methodism to a membership of 113,800 or a percentage of six and four-fifths. The total
                    number of all of the other protestant membership has been estimated closely at 117,500. This gives
                    us some idea of the importance, in size at least, of the Methodist church.9
            
            Slight mention had been made of temperance since 1856 but in 1861 the Committee on Temperance of the
                    Methodist conferences reported that the country was literally filled with drunkenness and
                    intemperance; and urged that the church should not relax its efforts in that direction. At the same
                    time a resolution was offered as follows: 
                        Resolved: That we will earnestly and faithfully warn our people against the evil.
                        Resolved: That the selling of corn, barley, or the aiding in the manufacturing, or marketing
                            of intoxicating liquors, or renting property to be used in the traffic is aiding and
                            abetting the cause of intemperance.
                        Resolved: That we respectfully ask our editors to speak out more frequently on the subject of
                            temperance and urge greater efforts on the subject.
                        Later the Rev. T. A. Goodwin, ardent champion of the temerance cause says:
                        I have been requested to prepare a form of a petition to the General Assembly of Indiana.
                    
            
            It read: 
                        To the General Assembly of Indiana: The subscribers, citizens of Indiana, would respectfully
                            call your attention to the ravages of intemperance in our midst growing out of the legalized
                            tippling houses and we would respectfully and earnestly ask you to enact a law which shall
                            wholly suppress places of public drinking.
                    
            
            As a result of these and similar agitations feeble movements began to be felt in the temperance world
                    again. Some of the old societies, headed by the most ardent church workers, revived in a measure2 while in other places new societies began to be organized to supplement the
                    old. After the close of the war many of the leading temperance men of the state met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and organized one of these new societies 
                  
                     8 Report of Indiana State Methodist Convention, 40.
               
                     which was to co-operate with the others. For their name they
                    chose "The Temperance Host of Indiana," and for their obligation they took the
                    following: 
                        We solemnly promise before God and man to maintain true faith and allegiance to the
                            temperance cause, to war unceasingly against all its enemies and opposers, to abstain wholly
                            from the traffic and use of intoxicating liquors as a beverage; to not furnish them to our
                            social guests, nor be social guests when they are furnished; to not traffic with those who
                            so traffic with them, nor to lend our influence in any way to those who favor traffic. We
                            furthermore promptly promise to obey our superiors in all things appertaining to the
                            temperance war and to hold as strictly private every transaction of the camp.12
                  
                    
            
            Small as were these beginnings they did not fail to exercise the proper influence throughout the
                    state. All of the old societies became more and more active; the churches began to take increased
                    interest in the old problem; preachers, urged on by the courageous Thomas A. Goodwin became zealous
                    in the cause; even all church members talked prohibition. It was not long before this increased
                    sentiment began to bear fruit and by 1866 had begun to claim a large share of public attention
                    throughout the state. About this time as well as later, the various temperance societies began to
                    work more zealously and more effectively than ever. Among these were the Sons of Temperance, The
                    Good Templars, and The Hosts. The State Central Committee also began operation at this time. It was
                    heartily endorsed by the different temperance orders and enthusiastically received by all people who
                    desired to overcome the traffic. They met in November of the year 1866 in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and adopted the following resolutions: 
                        Resolved: That in the opinion of the convention the time has come for giving special
                            attention to the cause of temperance in its various branches.
                        Resolved: That we regard the organization of some temperance associations in very town and
                            village as a matter of fact important for the moral influence of such associations upon the
                            restraining of sober men and the reforming of drunkards and the creation of a healthy public
                            sentiment.
                        Resolved: That we regard Juvenile Temperance organizations as a matter of great importance
                            and we urge their formation everywhere.
                        
                        Rsolved: That the time has come for demanding suitable legislation on the subject of
                            temperance.
                        Resolved: That we take no backward step in our demands on the subject of temperance
                            legislation, but we adhere to the temperance platform upon which we so successfully fought
                            twelve or fifteen years ago-absolute prohibition of the sale of intoxicating liquors as a
                            beverage.
                        Resolved: That all temperance organizations be requested to circulate for signature,
                            petitions to our next legislature as is contemplated by the fifth resolution and that
                            measures be adopted which will insure thorough circulation of the same in every school
                            district of the state.
                        Resolved: That we as temperance men of Indiana pledge ourselves not to support in our
                            nominating conventions, any candidate for any office who is not a practical temperance man,
                            nor will we support at the ballot box-all things else being equal-any candidate who cannot
                            show a clear temperance record.13
                  
                    
            
            Although this convention was not a great success due to the small numbers present it was indicative
                    of a further movement in behalf of the forces of right. Again in the following year they met in
                    greater numbers, in fact, every temperance society in the state had been invited to send a delegate.
                    As usual a great number of resolutions were passed; plans for the complete organization of every
                    town in the state made; and a bold endorsement of absolute prohibition voted upon favorably. It was
                    clearly recognized that the campaign had begun again as it had in the early fifties, and a petition
                    was prepared to be sent to the next legislature. It was as follows: 
                        The the General Assembly of the State of Indiana: The undersigned respectfully petition your
                            honorable body to pass a law which shall effectually prohibit the sale of intoxicating
                            liquors as a beverage.14
                  
                    
            
            In June of 1868 still another movement began. This was known as the State Temperance Alliance. It was
                    composed of all of the temperance men and women of all of the churches and Sunday schools of the
                    state. In addition to this they also included the various other temperance organizations. It was
                    organized with one idea in mind which, according to M. H. Mendenhall, pastor of the Grace Methodist
                    Episcopal church, was to harmonize the various views and sentiments of the temperance people of the
                    state after a full and untrammeled  discussion of any question
                    conected with the promotion of temperance principles and prohibition legislation.15 And for a time, at least it did have considerable influence for it did a great deal to
                    preserve what had already been done, and also created a desire for further and better legislation.
                    However, the people at the head of the organization were of the opinion that the liquor forces could
                    be out-maneuvered so they began to work on a flanking movement-the local option idea. At that time
                    the town or township was made the unit, and if a majority of the voters of such unit should vote
                    against the traffic then they might have prohibition in that territory for the year, while those not
                    voting in favor of it were to be left to the tender mercies and sympathies of the traffic.
            But during this same year the Alliance, meeting in 
                        Richmond
                    , decided almost unanimously to demand absolute prohibition as the duty of the state and
                    to fight under that banner only. They also gave notice to the politicians that until their homes
                    were protected by law from the liquor traffic, that they were to be counted out of all political
                    parties which would not aid them. In addition to this they recognized that they must begin at the
                    foundation of the matter using every agency, such as the churches and Sunday schools, "to
                    teach the doctrine of total abstinence."16 Much more might be given
                    concerning the movements but enough has been given to show the trend of thought and action. It
                    clearly indicates that the work of the temperance forces was on the up-grade again after over ten
                    years of almost complete failure.
            And during these ten years there had been a very small amount of liquor legislation. Especially was
                    this true until sometime after 1870. Of course, there had been some but it was meagre and
                    inefficient. What there was, was much as follows: The fragment of the prohibition law of 1853
                    remained for a time after the destruction of the law of 1855 but it was only a fragment and,
                    therefore, of no real consequence throughout the state. What was left of it was finally repealed on
                    December 21, 1858; this left the state with no law whatever.17 However, in March
                    of 1859 the General Assembly passed a law which provided that no person should sell intoxicating  liquors in less quantities than a quart without first securing a
                    license, nor could any person without a license sell any intixocating liquors to be drank about the
                    premises where it was sold. Such a license had to be obtained from the county commisisoners. But
                    before the license was issued to him he had to give at least twenty days notice in the weekly
                    newspaper of the exact locality where he intended to open shop. During the twenty days that
                    intervened before the board of commisisoners met, any legal voter in the district was given the
                    privilege of remonstrating in writing on account of the immorality or other unfitness of the
                    individual. After the board had been assured of his fitness in every respect he was granted the
                    license to keep a saloon for the period of one year. Such license cost the applicant fifty dollars
                    in addition to which he had to furnish suitable bond. Along with this went some regulations as to
                    his conduct. No liquor might be sold on Sunday or on any election day, or to any person under
                    twenty-one years of age, or to any intoxicated person and others who were in the habit of becoming
                    intoxicated. Also in cases where notice had been given by the wife, mother, sister, brother or
                    father concerning their relative the saloon-keeper was not allowed legally to sell liquor. Adequate
                    penalties ranging from five to five hundred dollars fine and not to exceed thirty days in jail were
                    provided for the law-breaker.18
            
            Another act was passed during the same month providing for the reimbursement out of the county
                    treasury of any person or persons who had suffered loss by seizure and destruction of property under
                    the prohibitory law of 1855; besides this, the court costs of individuals who had been arrested at
                    that time were returned to them by the act.19
            
            Still another act was passed this same year. This one provided that no person or persons should be
                    permitted to sell intoxicating liquors within one mile of any place of worship or agricultural fair
                    except at a regular place of business. A penalty of from five to twenty-five dollars was provided
                    for the violators of this act.2
            
            After these meagre and floundering attempts practically  nothing
                    more was done until long after the Civil war period. To be sure, there was some slight legislation
                    in the year of 1861 but it was in the nature of revision of previous laws. It provided that any
                    applicant for license, or any one remonstrating, may appeal from the action of the commissioners, to
                    the circuit or common pleas courts, and may demand a jury; the decision of the jury shall be final
                    without appeal therefrom.21 After this we pass over a period of four years with
                    no mention of the subject in the legislature. However, during the year of 1865 the law of 1859 was
                    so amended as to attach a penalty of not less than ten nor more than fifty dolars for any person
                    having a license to sell on Sunday, election days, or other national holidays, or to persons under
                    the age of twenty-one years, or to persons in a state of intoxication.22 This
                    concludes the legislation during the first half of this cycle or up until 1873.
            A brief summary may be given at this place to point out the salient features of the movement. To
                    begin with the forces that had brought about the reforms of 1855 had been thus far to a large degree
                    inactive. On the other hand, there were three factors that consumed the time, money and energy of
                    every temperance society. These were the slavery question and its agitation previous to 1861; the
                    War of the Rebellion; and, the Reconstruction period. Because of the resulting conditions the lesser
                    evil of intemperance was thrust into the background. We have already mentioned the work of such
                    societies as The Templars of Honor and Temperance, The Order of Good Templars. The Sons of
                    Temperance, and others. As has been suggested it can be summed up by saying that they remained in a
                    sort of passive state during the national crisis, to become slightly active after the close of the
                    war. In addition to these societies that had already grown up there were many others in the process
                    of organization. The work of these has already been characterized as the pioneer movement of the
                    return to a better status of affairs. Chief among these were the National Temperance Society, and
                    the State Temperance Alliance. These were prominently active in nearly every movement which had for
                    its opbect total abstinence.  The former, particularly, demanded
                    that the question of prohibition be separated from partisan politics. As in nearly all of the other
                    great movements of this kind practically all of their members were from the best, truest and most
                    sturdy people of the community. Most of them were educated beyond the common education of the day,
                    and a large share of them were church members.
            (To be Continued)
         
         
         
            A Pioneer Wedding
            LETTER FROM CATHERINE M. NOBLE TO MARGARET A. SULLIVAN
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 ,
                           
                                    May, June, 6th, '40.
                        My Dearest Friend:
                        I persued your letter with a mixture of pleasure and pain. I was delighted to haer
                                    from the dearest girls to me on earth and was pained when I found that you were
                                    wounded at my sending notice of my marriage with the respects of Mrs. A. H.
                                    Davidson, and that you imagined that as I was forming new interests that I had not
                                    still a place in my heart for you. I will tell you about the paper. I requested M.
                                    Davidson to get me a journal containing a notice of our marriage, to send you. He
                                    got it and wrote on it and addressed it to you with his own. hand. He said with the
                                    respects of Mrs. A. H. D. as much for fun, of seeing it written as for any thing,
                                    else, and I know, he did not once think that respects would sound cold and formal
                                    and as I was dressing for making rather returning calls I did not write myself. Mag,
                                    forget this and feel assured that there is no another girls on the earth, for whom I
                                    entertain pure, disinterested, unmixed affection except yourself, you Mag. Since
                                    you,', have been away form you I have learned how, to, appreciate your
                                    excellent and amiable qualities. I am not flattering. Not, a, day passes away that I
                                    do not remember you and am not reminded of some act of or exppression of kindness
                                    towards me. Mag I have to dwell on your character, energy is your prominent
                                    characteristick. In yourself are united two qualities which are irristible, the most
                                    accute sensitiveness, to joy or grief in your own person, and the most lively
                                    sympathy with the feelings of others. Mag excuse me but I can, not, refrain form
                                    pouring out the sentiment of my heart and soul in regard to yourself. I will now
                                    tell you about my wedding how I was attired for the occasion. On the 19th about 7
                                    o'clock we were united hand and heart in the pphesence of nearly 200,
                                    hundred persons. I cannot say in their presence for they had to stand in the front
                                    hall, and in the yard, and of course there were many that did not witness the  ceremony. The candles were not lighted until
                                    afterwards. My dress was of White Satin very rich and thick dead white. The bosom
                                    made with folds across, with one row of shell trimming deep blonde on the sleeves.
                                    My gloves white kid satin on the tops and edged with blonde. My hair was pplaited
                                    behind and my Grecian curls were curled very beautifully and worn behind curls in
                                    front. Mock orange blossoms were sent to me to wear in my hair. Iwore them in front
                                    buried in my curls and beautiful white rose in behind. My shoes were of light kid
                                    they were entirely white at candle light. My pocketkerchief was trimmed with lace.
                                    Mrs. Williams came in the room we were in before the gentlemen came and she offered
                                    me her chain and watch which I wore and completed my dress. E. Browing's
                                    dress was of some thin kind of goods of I do not know the name with a broad satin
                                    stripe and a vine in it and something between the stripes. It was very beautiful,
                                    looked like a blonde dress. M. Yandis6 dress was trimmed with
                                    satin on the skirts and on the bosoms likewise Jane Rings. They all looked well.
                                    Pretty E. B. and Dr. Bobbs went first. 3I mistake) O. Neal and
                                    J. R. went in first, and stepped to the right of the fire place in the front
                                    parlour, Jane retaining O. N's arm, and then E. B. and Dr. B. went in
                                    nexe, and stood to the left near the foldinf doors, she still leanding on Dr.
                                    B's arm. M. Y. and Hubbard9 went in and parted to
                                    make room for Mr. Davdson and Catherine who followed and stood between M. Y. and
                                    Hubbard, Catherine still having D's arm, immediately in the front of the
                                    fire place. Imagine us arranged Mr. Beecher40 in front of the
                                    semicircle, and dozen upon the sofa composed as one could be on any ocaision. I felt
                                    Mr. Davidson's heart beat next to my arm. Now the prayer begins which is
                                    quite long beautifully appropriate, mutilated, it made me thrill with emotions
                                    pleasure of the most peculiar character. Beecher knew all the circumstances of the
                                    former engagement, and he made a very delicate allusion to it. The ceremony was
                                    short. Mr. Beecher kissed us both and said it was done now he was sick and was
                                    carried into a room to lie down. My attendants were the first to kiss me. When the
                                    door was thrown open for us to enter the parlour there was Duncan standing
                                    immediately in the view. Mag I ought perhapsp not  to mention Duncan's name but there are subjects I dare not touch upon
                                    on paper at least. Wait till I see you. But I digress too often from the subject.
                                    Our supper was between enght and nine. The bed was taken out of mother's
                                    room, the tables were set one oppposite the fire place and then down the sides from
                                    one, opposite the fire place in the centre of the room between the tables was a
                                    small mahogony candle stand12, round top covered with a white
                                    cloth, bearing the Brides cake which was very splendid. A large pyramid was at the
                                    head of the table. We had elegant jelly cake and plates, tea, coffee and ice creams
                                    were sent around in the parlour afterward I have not told you how Mr. D was dressed.
                                    It was a rich suit of Broad cloth black satin vest, stock, frock coat, boots very
                                    handsome made for the express purpose, a pocket handkerchief that I gave him. His
                                    appearance was fine looked extremely handsome very animated. His attendants were
                                    dressed in the same style. Well Mag I am as happy as mortal man can make
                                    me! I feel as if I had indeed, entered into a new state of being and that
                                    I had my part to perform in great theatre of human life as if a good was expected
                                    from me, and that I know must begin to take my own stand in society and must depend
                                    upon myself. I wish you were in the same existance and near me to begin the world
                                    with me. Mag, marry some person ond come and live in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . When you are engaged won't you let me know? I am
                                    invited to dine at Mr. Beecher's today, and I am looking for Mr. D. to
                                    come and go with me. We are going to a partyy tonight at James
                                        Morrson's12. Alex Morrison18
                                    has given one which we attended. There will be more parties given, which would have
                                    been given were it not for so many being gone to th battle Ground14. What glorious ocaision the greatest political gathering ever known in our
                                    country. You have heard of the number estimated to have been present from 40,000 to
                                    60,000. In the evening there was a most brilliant Borealas which was hailed with a
                                    shout as an omen of success to the whigs. There was great excitement on Monday as
                                    the different delegations passed through with their banners and flags, log cabins
                                    toward the Battle Ground. A great many persons went from this place, but no ladies.
                                    There has been incessant rains, which  have
                                    prevented the ladies from this place from attending, 600 ladies from other parts
                                    were there. The day waws fine for convention. Tom called up to see me the evening he
                                    arrived. I was much pleased to see him. Isabelle Wick16 has
                                    returned and is preparing to go to housekeepin, and will be ready this coming week.
                                    I called to see her. I thought she looked very thin. We had a great number of calls
                                    on th next day after our marriage, and someone has been out ever day since. Last
                                    evening we had twelve calls, in the afternoon rather.
                        Parry has returned from the Baltamore Convention.17 Did not know
                                    anything of Mr. D. and I until he got to 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     and then he heard that I was married he was shocked and could not come
                                    to see me until yesterday he did not call my name and had very little to say,
                                    trembled like an aspen, voice faltered. I am delighted with those articles you
                                    ppresented me. The music is pretty very, been very much admired.
                        I must bring this to a close. Will trouble your self to read it? I have
                                    not looked at a word as I have written if you can read I will be glad. Do write soon
                                    and I will be glad to hear from you as often as you will write, I will take just the
                                    same interest in you and your, mutilated, formerly. My feelings have not changed in
                                    regard to any, illegible, young person's love. Don't mention
                                    when you write, either Duncan's or Parry's name. I will not
                                    show your letters to Mr. D. if you do not wish it I will not let him know anything
                                    that you might want to say to me alone.
                        
                                    Adeu dearest friend, Mag, I remain still your friend
                                    Catherine M. N. Davidson.
                                
                         Mrs McClure left us evening before last for 
                                        Madison
                                     on her way to 
                                        Virginia
                                     she will visit Mrs. H's some time.
                         Miss M. A. Sullivan, 
                                        Madison
                                    , Indiana.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Americanism 100 Years Ago
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Pine Township,
                           
                                    October 30th, 1816.
                        Dear Children:
                        I received yours of the 14th of May, 1816, which contributed much to my satisfaction
                                    to find you in health and that God in his adorable providence has blessed you with
                                    an husband to your mind and thereby increased your family unto a flock gracing your
                                    table round. I pray that he may be like the goat going before his flock in the ways
                                    of truth and holiness, raising them in the nurture and admonition of the Lord.
                        By these you may learn that I am yet in the place of hope enjoying a moderate state
                                    of health at present, a blessing bestowed upon me which I have to be thankful for
                                    and among the many blessings I enjoy, I have ground of rejoicing that 
                                        Providence
                                     has planted me in a land of liberty both civil and ecclesiastical. We
                                    enjoy peace and plenty, and none to make us afraid. We have the gospel here in its
                                    purity, having two Convenating ministers, not more than ten miles the furthest, and
                                    about four the nighest. We have no cause of complaint in respect of high rents, as
                                    we pay none, nor dares the Rector of his cure, approach our door to call for the
                                    tenth of our labor. We enjoy the fruits of our labor in a land of liberty. We have
                                    no cause to complain even of taxation. Our county tax is small, perhaps two or three
                                    dollars per year. William Hutchman's estate tax last year came to
                                    seventy-three cents for 166 acres of land, besides all his taxable property. When
                                    you compare these taxes with your dog tax you might wish you were safe out of
                                    Egyptian bondage, but Issachorlike, you couch under two burdens. When I am led to
                                    look over the Atlantic and enumerate the numberless acts of oppression wherewith you
                                    are treated, it makes me wish that all my friends and well-wishers were safe landed
                                    on 
                                        Columbus
                                    ' peaceful shores. Thus I communicate my best wishes to you,
                                    but will not dare to counsel any. I would wish to see you before I dee in 
                                        Alleghany County
                                    , where you and your little one might be safe from under the iron hand
                                    of oppression. Pitsburgh is  the capital of 
                                        Alleghany County
                                    , where we sell our produce. Flour sells now from four to five dollars
                                    per hundred potatoes half dollar per bushel; butter at two shilings or thirty cents
                                    per pound; turnips fifty cents per bushel of half dollar; meat at from six to
                                    eighteen cents per pound; eggs at twenty cents per dozen. The common laboring man
                                    has one dollar and eleven cents per day and finds himself. A young man has about
                                    sixteen dollers a month and found in the country with us, as we live about nine
                                    miles from the city. We pay seveneyfive cents for making a pair of shoes. Money is
                                    not so plenty as it has been for some time past, but still we have no cause of
                                    complaint. We have different prices in land, just as it is situated, and according
                                    to location as it is in quality. First rate land nigh to the city sells at one
                                    hundred dollars per acre, etc., some fifty, some twenty, and ten, etc., but land
                                    thirty or forty miles from the city sells at three, some two, and some less,
                                    according to its quality and location. Our common cows sell for from sixteen to
                                    twenty dollars per head. By this scale you can weigh the situation. You may keep any
                                    number of cattle in the summer if you can winter them. Thus you see small taxes, no
                                    rents, if you purchase land of your own; no tithes; no duties; none to oppress you;
                                    we live under our own vine, and none to make us afraid. If we will work there is no
                                    fear of want, and there is employment for all kinds of the different kinds of
                                    tradesmen, or farmers, young or old. Time would fail to me to tell you of the
                                    different kinds of machines employed in the city. It is supposed to be one of the
                                    most flourishing cities in the 
                                        United States
                                    . The grocery business is very advantageous one here, as the city lies
                                    in the fork of the Alleghany and Monongahela
                                    Rivers, which form the Ohio River and runs through a
                                    vast extensive country, and form the Mississippi River, which
                                    runs upwards for seventeen hundred miles and empties into the ocean below the city
                                    of 
                                        New Orleans
                                    , where General Jackson gave John Bull's gallant troops a
                                    complete drubbing on the 8th day of January, 1815, where Johnnie Bull lost 2,500
                                    men, with the loss of two men killed and five or seven wounded on our side. So
                                    terrible were they handled by our troops and so tremendous and continuous was our
                                    cannon and small arms, that Johnnie Bull's men, to save  their lives, lay down among the slain and pulled the
                                    dead corpses over them, and when Wellington's old veterans fled from the
                                    field, they rose and gave themeselves up, prisoners of war. So panic stricken were
                                    Johnnie Bull's men that they ran, leaving their slain half buried.
                        Now when you see Johnnie Bull, tell him we live free and happy, under one of the best
                                    constitutions in the world. Nor need he come any more to disturb our peace, lest it
                                    fare worse with him for Yankee Doodle says he will live free, and now he is prepared
                                    to meet him by land or sea.
                        I could wish such spirit was found in all my friends and relations, and it might
                                    prevail on them to come and enjoy a part of our liberty and freedom. There is
                                    nothing wanting here, either civil or religious liberty, to contribute to our
                                    happiness, We have now four placed ministers in the bounds of the congregation, that
                                    the Rev. Mr. Black formerly occupied, viz., the Rev. William Gibson, Mr. Williams,
                                    Mr. Cannon, and Mr. Black. Here you see how religion is prevailing, as there is yet
                                    a vacancy for one or more on these bounds We are here supported in the
                                    free exercise of our religious sentiments, by the civil constitution of the United
                                    State, hense we have nothing to fear from the quarter.
                        Your sister Elizabeth and family are well and desire to be remembered in love to you
                                    and family. She has five children, two sons and three daughters, Joseph, Samuel,
                                    Mary Ann, Sarah, and Rachael 
                                        Campbell
                                    .
                        Sister Sarah and family are in health and desirous to be remembered with love to you
                                    and family. She has four children alive, three sons and one daughter, viz., Nance,
                                    Boggs, Samuel, Mary Ann and Josiah Hutchman. Dear daughter. time would fail me to
                                    write to you the blesings and privileges which we, by the kind providence of God,
                                    enjoy in the land of liberty, but I shall here conclude by hereby transmitting my
                                    love and best respect to you and family, and particularily to my aged and loving
                                    father, if yet alive. We perhaps may never meet again in time, but that we meet
                                    daily at the throne of grace, and that his prayers for me may be that we meet at a
                                    throne of Glory, where sighing and sorrow shall be no more. Remember me to brother
                                    Hance and family, brother Rabert  and family and
                                    brother Archibald and family, brother and sister Gordon and family, and all
                                    inquiring friends or neighbors. I add no more but remain your loving mother.
                        
                                    MARY BOGGS.
                                
                         N. B. We received your letter of May 20th, 1816, but none else from 1807. I
                                    wish you to lose no opportunity of writing to us, and let us know of James Cummins,
                                    as we have no account of him, only he was the bearer of your letter.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Indiana In the Mexican War
            By R. C. Buley, M. A.
             (Continued)
            
                    THE BUENA VISTA CONTROVERSY
                
            The Buena Vista controversy grew out of General Taylor's statament: 
                        the Second Indiana, which had fallen back as stated could not be rallied, and took no further
                            part in the action, except a handful of men, who under its gallant Colonel, Bowles, joined
                            the 
                                Mississippi
                             regiment, and did good service, and those fugitives who, at a later period in
                            the day, assisted in defending the train and depot at Buena Vista.1
                  
                    
            
            This condemnation of the volunteers of the Second, and the inference of cowardice, not only angered
                    the volunteers thoroughly but so affected the reputation of the state that it suffered for years, in
                    fact until the stigma was removed by the Civil war. Concerning this part of Taylor's
                    report General Lew Wallace writes: 
                        In all American history there is not another sentence which, taken as a judgement of men in
                            mass equals that one in cruelty and injustice; none so wanton in misstatement, none of
                            malice so obstinately adhered to by its author, none so comprehensive in its damage, since
                            it dishonored a whole state, and though half a century has passed, still holds the state
                            subject to stigma.
                    
            
            At first the words of Taylor piqued only the volunteers of the Second regiment, but his failure to
                    correct his statement after his attention had been called to his mistake, together with other things
                    which he had said concerning the volunteers, made enemies of practically all Indiana troops. In
                    1847, immediately following the Buena Vista campaign, the disputed points concerning the Second were
                    of interest to only a few hundred men and their friends; in 1848 the dispute was turned into
                    campaign material and intimately concerned a doubtful state and the national election. It was in
                    this rehashing of the whole affair that the controversy took on its most bitter aspects.
            
               
                  1 Taylor, Official Report, National Documents, 1846-7, p
                        134.
            
            
            The controversy resolved itself into three separate questions. First, why did the Second regiment
                    leave the field, from fear or by order? If by order, why was the order given and who was
                    responsible for it? Second, how much of the regiment rallied and finished the
                    fight? Third, did General Taylor know the facts of the case and did he neglect to correct
                    his report after he had learned the cause of the retreat?
            The first and second of these questions are very closely related, for definite knowledge of the
                    number rallied would do much to determine whether the men retreated from orders, or because of the
                    odds against them, or whether they were just naturally cowards. From General Taylor's
                    words one would infer the latter to be true.2
            
            The fact of the retreat of the Second was presented in the official reports in various ways. From
                    General Taylor's report came the following: 
                        The Second Indiana and Second 
                                Illinois
                             regiments formed this part of our line, the former covering three pieces of
                            light artillery, under the orders of Captain O'Brien, Brigadier-General Lane
                            being in immediate command. In order to bring his men within effective range, General Lane
                            ordered the artillery and the Second Indiana forward. The Artillery, advanced within musket
                            range of a heavy body of Mexican infantry, and was served against it with great effect, but
                            without being able to check its advance. The infantry ordered to its support had fallen back
                            in disorder, being exposed, as well as the battery, not only to a severe fire of small arms
                            from the front but also to a murderous cross-fire of grape and cannister from a Mexican
                            battery on the left.3
                  
                    
            
            Brigadier-General Lane reported as follows: 
                        About 9 o'clock I was informed by Colonel Churchill that the enemy were advancing
                            toward my position in great force, sheltering themselves in a deep ravine which runs up
                            towards the mountain directly in my front. I immediately put my columns in motion,
                            consisting of those eight battalion companies and Lieutenant O'Brien's
                            battery, amounting in all to about 400 men, to meet them. The enemy, when they deployed from
                            the ravine, and appeared on the ridge displayed a force of about 4,000 infantry, supported
                            by a large body of lancers. The infantry immediately opened a most destructive fire, which
                            was returned by my small command, both infantry and artillery, in a most gallant manner for
                            some time. I soon perceived that I was too far from the enemy for my muskets to take the
                            deadly effect which I desired, and immediately sent my 
                        
                           2 For placement of troops and position of Second Indiana see
                                    description above.
                        
                           3 Taylor, Official Report, National
                                    Documents, 1846-7, p 135-6.
                     
                             aide-de-camp to Lieutenant O'Brien, directing
                            him to place his battery in a more advanced position, with the determination of advancing my
                            whole line. By this movement I should not only be near the enemy, but should also bring the
                            company on my extreme left more completely into action, as the brow of the hill impeded
                            their fire. By this time the enemy's fire of musketry and the raking fire of ball
                            and grapeshot of their battery posted on my left had become so terrible, and my infantry
                            instead of advancing, as was ordered, 'I regret to say retired in some
                                disorder4 from their position, notwithstanding my own and the severe
                            efforts of my officers to prevent them.6
                  
                    
            
            General Wool, to whom the disposition of the troops was largely trusted, reported in much the same
                    manner as Taylor: 
                        In connection with this movement, a heavy column of the enemy's infantry and
                            cavalry and battery on the side of the mountain moved against our left, which was held by
                            Bragadier-General Lane, with the Second Indiana regiment, and Lieutenant
                            O'Brien's section of artillery, by whom the enemy's fire
                            was warmly returned, and, owing to the range, with great effect. General Lane, agreeably to
                            my orders, wishing to bring his infantry within striking distance ordered his line to move
                            forward. This order was duly obeyed by Lieutenant O'Brien. The infantry, however,
                            instead of advancing, retired in disorder; and, in spite of the utmost efforts of their
                            general and his officers, left the artillery unsupported and fled the field of battle. Some
                            of them were rallied by Colonel Bowles, who, with the fragment, fell in the ranks of the 
                                Mississippi
                             riflemen and during the day did good service with that gallant regiment. I
                            deeply regret to say that most of them did not return to the field, and many of them
                            continued their flight to Saltillo.6
                  
                    
            
            Lieutenant O'Brien, to whose support the Second was ordered, threw no additional light on
                    the subject. 
                        On arriving at the point indicated, I found myself within musket range of about three hundred
                            Mexican infantry, while their battery, three hundred yards on my left, was pouring in heavy
                            discharges of grape and cannister. I opened the fire against the infantry and lancers with
                            tremendous effect. Every shot, whether cannister or shell, seemed to tell. The enemy fell
                            back. I advanced on him about fifty yards. He was strongly reinforced, until in fact, I
                            found his main body pressing on me. The pieces were admirably served, but failed any longer
                            to check his advance. Every gap in the Mexican ranks was closed as soon as made. On looking
                            around at this moment, I discovered that the tremendous cross-fire of the enemy had forced
                            the regiment ordered to my support to fall back.7
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  4 This word "ordered" was amended to "as I
                        intended" in supplementary report of March 24, 184.
               
                  5 Lane's Report, National Documents, 181-2.
               
                  6 General Wool's Report, National Documents,
                        1846-7, 147.
               
                  7 O'Brien's Report, National
                        Documents, 1846-7, p 160.
            
            
            These reports portray the retreat of the Second as it would have appeared to an observer at a
                    distance. General Taylor did not see this move, and if Wool saw it, it was from a distance.
                    Lieutenant O'Brien was some distance in front of the regiment and so busily engaged that
                    he did not see the Second break and retire. Altho General Lane was in immediate command of the
                    regiment and in the near vicinity at the moment, he was at a loss to account for the withdrawal. For
                    the real causes of the move one must look to the testimony of the men themselves and the subsequent
                    reports of the court of inquiry which were based upon the direct evidence obtained shortly after the
                    battle.
            After General Lane ordered forward Lieutenant O'Brien, that officer took his three guns,
                    advanced over two hundred yards in front of the other troops and took up his position at the head of
                    the third gorge.8 The battery worked well and made great gaps in the Mexican
                    line, but did not check the advance. The Second regiment, in the meantime, was holding its own
                    admirably, altho it was a struggle of four hundred against four thousand. It was at this time that
                    General Lane ordered O'Brien, in order to get more effective results, to limber up and
                    advance sixty yards to the right and front.9 Before the aide-de-camp had time to
                    return from delivering this order to the battery, and while General Lane was still waiting for his
                    return in order to give the necessary orders for advancing the troops, they gave way on the right
                    and in a few minutes the whole line was retreating. The men had fired about twenty-one rounds when
                    the companies on the right broke and etired. Some of the men on the left started to follow, while
                    others held firm and begged their comrades to remain. But the desire to follow overcame all
                    arguments and the bravest reasoned that there was no use to remain longer. The case for Indiana and
                    the Second depended on the establishment of one fact, namely, that the regiment was ordered to
                    retreat by its colonel. Three times Colonel Bowles gave the order "Cease firing, and
                    retreat!" before the regiment obeyed.10
            
            
               
                  8 See description of battle, Chapter II.
               
                  9 Cariton, 60.
               
                  10 Narrative of Lieutenant-Colonel W. R. Haddon. Description of the
                        proceedings at the Battle of Buena Vista. Written for Western Sun and
                            Advertiser Also letter from soldier of Second for the Sentinel, August 17, 1848, written at Buena Vista, March 13, 1847.
            
            
            The motives which prompted Colonel Bowles to give this order have never been satisfactorily
                    explained. Charges of cowardice sprang from all sides. They ranged in seriousness from that of the
                    soldier who said that Bowles dismounted as soon as the firing began and endeavored to shield himself
                    by staying immediately in the rear of his troops with his horse between him and the
                    enemy's battery,21 to those which affirmed that he merely gave the
                    order in a moment of panic and was sorry of it a few minutes later. It was even rumored that Bowles
                    mistrusted the inpenetrability of his horse and retired to a gully where he was later found by his
                    men in hiding, but there is no authentic foundation for this charge. It is certain that the colonel
                    conducted himself in this part of the battle in a manner but little calculated to inspire his men
                    with confidence either in his leadership or personal bravery.
            The publicity given this affair threw members of the Second in a very bad light. Some of the blame
                    was placed upon the shoulders of General Lane, especially by his political enemies. General Lane, in
                    order to place the blame where it rightfully belonged, preferred charges against Colonel Bowles.
                    General Taylor refused to permit a court martial because the conduct of Bowles had been extolled by
                    Colonel Davis of the 
                        Mississippi
                     regiment, which Bowles joined, More over in the two weeks after the battle that Taylor
                    remained at Saltillo he had heard nothing injurious to Bowles's reputation. He further
                    stated that he did not believe the charges could be substantiated.12
            
            General Lane, failing in his attempt to relieve the regiment from blame and vindicate his own
                    reputation from all insinuations and charges, by a court martial, decided upon the next best means.
                    Colonel Bowles seemed perfectly willing to take Taylor's advice and "let the
                    matter drop" and stifle all investigation on the subject. He showed no inclination to ask
                    for a court of inquiry to vindicate himself, so General Lane asked for one to investigate his own
                    conduct on the battle field. The decision of this court was announced by General Wool in Orders No.
                    279.
            
               
                  11 Soldier of Buena Vista to Sentinel, written at Buena
                        Vista, March 13, 1847.
            
            
            As facts the court reported that the Second left the field without any order from General Lane and
                    that thru his exerions from one hundred and fifty to two hundred were rallied and joined the 
                        Mississippi
                     and Third Indiana regiments. It was the opinion of the court that during the whole
                    period of the 22nd and 23rd of February, that General Lane conducted himself as a brave and gallant
                    officer and that no censure attached to him for the retreat of the Second Indiana.13
            
            With General Lane thus absolved from all responsibility for the retreat, Colonel Bowles was placed in
                    a very bad light. At last public opinion compelled him to ask for a court of inquiry on his own
                    conduct. This court, with Colonel Bissel at the head, was provided by General Wool and convened at
                    the Buena Vista camp, April 12, 1847.
            The charges which General Lane had preferred against Colonel Bowles were two in number and serious.
                    They were backed by specific instances illustrating each. First, Colonel Bowles was unable and
                    incompetent to discharge the duties of colonel. He was ignorant of the tactics used in battalion and
                    company drill as well as those of brigade drill. He was ignorent of the movements necessary to meet
                    and repel a charge of the enemy, as shown on the night of February 22 on the field of Buena Vista.
                    Second, violation of the fifty-second article of war. In the battle of Buena Vista he had, himself,
                        
                  
                            12. The following is Taylor's letter:
                            
                                
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       Headquarters Army of Occupation,
                                       Camp near Monterey
                                    ,
                                                    March 23, 1847.
                                 Brigadier-General Wool, U. S. A.
                                 Buena Vista, Mexico.
                                 General:
                                 The charges against Colonel Bowles included in your communication of the
                                                14th have been duly submitted to the commanding general, who directs me
                                                to say that under all the circumstances he is not disposed to order a
                                                court martial in the case. By reference to the official reports of the
                                                engagement at Buena Vista it is seen that the personal conduct of
                                                Colonel Bowles is extolled by yourself and Colonel Davis, with whose
                                                regiment he was associated after the flight of his own. In nearly two
                                                weeks that the general remained at Saltillo after the battle he heard no
                                                syllable breathed against the reputation of Colonel Bowles nor does he
                                                now believe that the charge affecting his conduct in the battle can be
                                                substantiated. His own official report, based upon the best evidence he
                                                could obtain, speaks well for the conduct of Colonel Bowles and he will
                                                not consent to entertain the charges against him. They should have been
                                                preferred at an earlier day. Should Colonel Bowles desire a court of
                                                inquiry in this case I am directed to say that you are authorized by the
                                                commanding general to grant it, but the general thinks it is best for
                                                all concerned to let the matter drdop.
                                 
                                                I am, sir, very respectfully,
                                                Your obedient servant,
                                                W. S. Bliss.
                                                Assistant Adjutant-General.
                                            
                              
                           
                        
                            
                            From New 
                                    Albany
                                
                                Democrat, August 24, 1848.
                        
                  
                     13 Orders No. 279: issued from headquarters at Buena Vista, April 26,
                            1847. New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Democrat, August 24, 1848.
               
                     while in command of the regiment, misbehaved before the enemy by
                    giving to the regiment, while engaged with and under the fire of the enemy, the unnecessary and
                    unofficerlike order "Cease firing, and retreat." In consequence of this order the
                    regiment retreated and was thrown into such confusion that is never could be completely rallied.
                    After giving and repeating this order Colonel Bowles had shamefully run away from the enemy and
                    abandoned his post in the presence of the enemy, which post he had been commanded by his superior
                    officer to maintain and defend. Furthermore after leaving his post and regiment he took shelter
                    alone in a ravine near the scene of action. Before retiring to the ravine and while still in command
                    of his regiment he had dismounted from his horse in the rear of the regiment and taken shelter from
                    the enemy's fire behind it.14
            
            The court of inquiry, after diligently examining the evidence reported the following facts. In
                    relation to the first charge the evidence seemed to indicate that Colonel Bowles was ignorant of
                    company, battalion and brigade drill, and that the maneuver of the 22nd of February was an
                    indication of ignorance of battalion drill. With reference to the second charge the evidence seemed
                    to indicate that Colonel Bowles, when General Lane was present, gave the order, "Cease
                    firing and retreat," but that he had no authority from General Lane to do so. Bowles also
                    retreated after giving the order, but did not shamefully run away from the enemy or hide in a ravine
                    from the enemy and his regiment. Altho the colonel had dismounted from his horse in the rear of his
                    regiment there was no evidence to show that he used his horse for protection. The order to retreat
                    did induce the regiment to leave its position and was given for that purpose, but the court did not
                    find that Bowles had been ordered particularly to maintain his position.
            In the opinion of the court, Bowles was ignorant of the duties of colonel and that ill-health and
                    absence on account of ill-health had, in some degree, prevented him from acquainting himself with
                    the duties of that office, the court believed that at the time Bowles gave the order to retreat he
                    was under 
                  
                     14 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Democrat, August 24, 1848. Accessible in Perry p.
                            309-310.
               
                     the impression that the artillery had retreated, when it had
                    merely advanced under the orders of General Lane. These orders had not been made known to the
                    commander of the Second. In conclusion the court stated that thruout the engagement and during the
                    whole day Colonel Bowles exhibited no lack of personal courage or bravery, but that he did manifest
                    want of capacity and judgement as a commander.
            In spite of the fact that Bowles had been with the regiment but a short time, the men of the Second
                    were thoroughly acquainted with their Colonel and his incompetence before they went into the battle
                    of Buena Vista, and did not have to wait for the court of inquiry to inform them that he was
                    unfitted to perform the offices of colonel. The most conspicuous example illustrating Colonel
                    Bowles' thorough ignorance of military form and tactics was his conduct on the evening of
                    February 22, just before the battle.15 The Second, camped on the field, was
                    surprised by a body of horsemen supposed to have been lancers trying to outflank it. The alarm was
                    given. Coloel Bowles called the regiment to attention and began maneuvers to put it into position to
                    receive the charge.
            In his ignorance of tactics he got the regiment drawn up with "left in front" and
                    while maneuvering to get right it might easily have been cut to pieces.16
                    Fortunately the alarm was caused only by the American horse returning from water.
            At this display of ignorance and incapacity in an hour of danger, a great number among the officers
                    and men became unwilling to further trust their lives and honor in his hands. A committee was sent
                    to General Lane requesting him to be with the regiment on the following day, and this he promised
                    faithfully to do.17 No disrespect was meant for Colonel Bowles except as a
                    military commander. Most of the men believed him to be intelligent, courteous and humane, and judged
                    by actions during the engagement there seemed no reasons to doubt his or Colonel Haddon's
                        bravery.18 Colonel Bowles was a physician of scientific attainments, brave,
                    ambitious, pleasant-mannered and easy-going, but he could not master the elements of tactis
                    practiced at the time.19
            
            
               
                  15 This is the instance referred to in Lane's charges.
               
                  16 Scribner, A Campaign in Mexico, 62. Scribner was
                        present on this occasion.
               
                  17 Ibid, 63.
               
                  18 Scribner, 63.
               
                  19 Wallace, Autobiography, 183.
            
            
            On the field of Buena Vista the Second regiment was laboring under a dual commandership which made
                    possible the contradictory orders and the resulting calamity. A very close attachment had arisen
                    between the regiment and its late colonel, Lane. The general continued to camp with it, and after
                    his promotion took it with him as he changed location. The relation between the two was very similar
                    to that existing between General Taylor and the First 
                        Mississippi
                    . Practically, Lane remained colonel and Bowles had the title. Lane looked after the
                    dicipline and welfare of the men. He drilled them very carefully himself. To these intimate
                    relations Colonel Bowles made no objections and he was not in the leastwise jealous. His tastes were
                    along other lines than military. He was known, when the regiment was on parade ground under Lane, to
                    ride into camp with a batch of botanical specimens from the surrounding country.20 He possessed no sense of the responsibility of his command The men, on the whole, tolerated
                    him good naturedly, little dreaming of the trouble this dual colonelcy would bring upon them.
            On the field of Buena Vista the Third Indiana the only other regiment in Lane's brigade,
                    was placed in reserve by General Wool. This left General Lane in actual command of only
                    O'Brien's battery of three guns and the Second Indiana. So the regiment went
                    into battle with two colonels. Should they fail to act in unison the result could easily be
                    imagined. And this is precisely what happened.
            The Mexicans started action at dawn. The American army was alert at three o'clock but not
                    formed into battle line. General Lane knew it would not do for the Mexican battery to catch his
                    companies unformed. So he ordered "Fall in." In a few minutes Colonel Churchill of
                    General Wool's staff came with the report that the Mexicans were feinting down the road,
                    but that the real attack would come from the ravine toward him. Without telling Bowles, who was at
                    the rear of the extreme right company, Lane rode around to the front 
                  
                     20 Wallace, 183.
                  
                     21 Wallace, 185.
               
                     and, seeing the formation ready, ordered "Forward-guide
                    center march!"21 This was the beginning of the double colonelcy.
            From the ravine poured the Mexicans until the two whole divisions of Lombardini and Pacheco were in
                    battle line. It had been Lane's object to reach a place where he could control the ravine
                    as the Mexicans came out. When he saw that he was too late he halted the regiment and sent
                    O'Brien into battery. Then he rode to the rear by the left flank. Had he gone by the
                    right flank he could have communicated his desires to the other colonel. As Lane did all the
                    commanding directly there was no means of Bowles knowing the General's plans. The men
                    went to their knees at Lane's command and at his orders began firing. There were about
                    three hundred and sixty men in the ranks, all within easy range of the battery of five
                    eight-pounders which enfiladed them left and right. It was this battery that made it imperative to
                    shift the regiment. When Lane saw the Mexicans in front faltering, he decided to move forward, in
                    order to get closer. Robinson, Lane's adjutant-general, delivered the order, which was at
                    once obeyed.22 At the same time from his position behind the last company or the
                    left (McRae's) Lane called out the command, "Forward!" It was then that
                    he noticed that the companies on the right were retreating on the run.
            Such being the case the question arises, who was to blame for the conflicting orders? Did
                    the position of the regiment and the odds against which it was fighting justify the order to
                    retreat? It is hard to fix definitely the blame for the lack of teamwork between the two
                    commanders of the regiment. Undoubtedly General Lane should have delivered his orders thru Colonel
                    Bowles, or at least have communicated his plans to him. As long as Bowles remained colonel in name
                    the men had to obey him. But General Lane was a man of action. He knew the men looked to him as
                    their real leader. They had obeyed his every command thus far in the battle. Amid the excitement of
                    the conflict General Lane seemed completely to have forgotten the existence of Colonel Bowles. He
                    had been getting results by direct commands to the men, and had no reasons to believe that they
                    would fail to execute this most important 
                  
                     22 Wallace, 187.
               
                     order. Unfortunately Colonel Bowles' plans were not
                    the same.
            The friends of Colonel Bowles and some of the political enemies of General Lane attempted to show
                    that the order to retreat was the only sensible one to give under the circumstances and that because
                    of it no charge of cowardice would be justified. It is also but just to add that among many officers
                    of long experience the belief prevailed that the prime fault was one of rashness and want of
                    judgement in placing this force in a position, which, they contended, neither this nor any other
                    regiment could have maintained. Moreover, it was a position which it was necessary to hold as one
                    upon which others depended. Those who held this view thought it no more than right that Lane should
                    bear a part of the odium which the regiment could not escape. 
                        The disparity of numbers alone would have justified the withdrawal of the American force to
                            the main line of batle. If General Lane knew the weight of the column he had gone forth to
                            engage before he encountered it, I think the world will rather stand in amazement at his
                            rashness than lost in the admiration of his wisdom.23
                  
                    
            
            Marshall thought that surely General Lane did not know of the Mexican battery on the left before it
                    opened with the grape and cannister. If the column of the Second regiment formed line to the front
                    facing the Saltillo road with its right flank toward the Second 
                        Illinois
                    , the rear had been engaged in attack of the Mexican brigade which had been engaged in
                    the the mountains early in the morning, the left flank was left open to the raking fire of the
                    battery, and the front to the fire and charges of infantry variously estimated at from four to seven
                    thousand. If the line was drawn parallel to the line of battle then the left flank cut the Mexican
                    line of battle, while the handful of Indianians was beyond the reach of support from the American
                    lines. Its overthrow was practically inevitable before a gun fired.24
                    
                        The General's confidence must have been as overwhelming as his conduct was
                            brilliant. if, before he commenced this knight errantry of four hundred against four or six
                            thousand, sustained by cavalry and 
                        
                           23 Colonel Humphrey Marshall in his reply to Lane's
                                    supplimentary report, Tri-weekly Journal, July 12, 1847.
                        
                           24 Marshall, Tri-weekly Journal, July 12,
                                    1847.
                     
                             artillery, he thot of giving me an order to advance on
                            the enemy and cut them off in case they should retreat before him. The General was no doubt
                            zealous and sanguine, but he never informed me that his hopes reached this extent. There is
                            no necessity to comment upon his declaration that, after losing ninety men, he ordered the
                            three hundred and ten who were left to advance on the foe, more than four thousand strong,
                            so as to get within fifty yards to resume the fire. I do not blame the Second Indiana for
                            retreating under the state of case made out by the Brigadier-General commanding them. That
                            the retreat was made in confusion resulted from the nature of the ground they were compelled
                            to traverse, those very obstacles which should have been kept in front to impede the
                            progress of the enemy.26
                  
                    
            
            Such was the criticism of Lane's tactics by a soldier recommended by Taylor for his
                    coolness and bravery. Bissel's regiment was the nearest to the Second Indiana and he had
                    ample means of knowing both the lay of the land and the chances of success of the Indianians.
            There were other officers, however, of equal experience, who believed that Lane's plan was
                    sound and success prevented only by the unforseen. Lane, ordered by General Wool to move forward and
                    meet the enemy who were advancing in numbers, so judiciously selected his ground that a better spot
                    could not have been chosen.26 It was the only place where the small force could
                    present as large a front as an enemy, who, with their numbers, upon other ground might have
                    completely surrounded and destroyed it. The best way of judging the chances of success of the
                    arrangement is to note how near it came to succeeding. General Wool told Colonel Bowles, in the
                    presence of General Lane, Colonel Curtis of the Third 
                        Ohio
                    , and Major 
                        Washington
                     of the artillery, that if he had withheld his order to retreat and carried out the
                    intentions of General Lane to advance, he would have executed one of the most brilliant moves ever
                    executed on any battle field. He used as proof Santa Anna's official report, where that
                    general stated that he had already passed an order for his forces to retreat, when the enemy, after
                    a most determined resistance, was observed to give way in great confusion. The report of the Mexican
                    Engineers adds further weight to the statement that the Mexicans 
                  
                     25 Bissell, Ibid.
                  
                  
                     26 Seribner, Campaign in Mexico, 63. Scribner at
                            first considered Lane's plan unsound but after surveying the ground with more
                            leisure and coolness, he judged success highly probable.
               
                     were about ready to retire when the retreat of their opponents
                    made it necessary. 
                        Many of our corps acted badly, but much havoc, nevertheless, was made among the enemy, and
                            the heights were carried by force of arms, We lost many men, and the new corps of Guanajuto
                            was dispersed. If, at that juncture we had been attacked with vigor, we should probably have
                            been defeated.27
                  
                    
            
            With conclusive proof that the order to retreat was given, it remains to determine just what part
                    that order played in causing the retreat of the regiment; whether it was the only cause of retreat
                    or was given after the regiment showed signs of breaking. All evidence points to the conclusion that
                    the order was the impulse "that started the ball rolling." While the men were
                    fighting as bravely as men ever fought and no one was thinking of retreating he (Colonel Bowles)
                    gave the order to "Cease firing, and Retreat!"28 The men had
                    begun firing, a little excitedly it is true, but with aim and effect. It had long been the ambition
                    of the men of the Second to get into a battle and now that they had at last realized their ambition,
                    they intended to make good. Characteristic of new troops, they remained steady as long as they
                    seemed to have a show of success. They seemed hardly to realize the danger of their position. A
                    battery was in front of them mowing down the Mexican lines and breaking up their formation. Their
                    own fire brought very visible results. The enemy, however, filled the gaps and came on with no signs
                    of wavering. Bullets swished by, dirt was spattered over the men, comrades fell and the thousands in
                    front showed no signs of diminishing. Each man had been provided with forty rounds of ammunition
                    each cartridge loaded with a bullet and three buck-shot. The loading was a rather slow process, but
                    after the first thrill of excitement wore away the men did it coolly and systematically. By the time
                    twenty-one rounds had been fired the Mexicans began to falter and their fire grew less effective.
                    This confusion may heve been due to the difficulty of maneuvering on the rough ground and more
                    apparent than real. It is reasonably certain, however, that, at this time, with nineteen 
                  
                     27 Report of Mexican engineers, from Carlton, 62.
                  
                     28 Letter from soldier of the Second, Indiana
                            Sentinel, May 9, 1847.
               
                     rounds of ammunition remaining, the men were not thinking of
                    retreating. How long the regiment of a scant four hundred men could have stood the strain is
                    problematical. Colonel Bowles did not give them a chance to show this. The very fact that he had to
                    give the order twice, or according to Lieutenant-Colonel Haddon, three times,29
                    goes to prove that the men were not thinking very much about retiring. To indicate this further, the
                    men who did not hear the order did not retreat until left almost alone. The chances are, that when
                    those within hearing distance of Colonel Bowles heard the order to retreat they suddenly realized
                    the extreme danger of their position. Without stopping to think further they accepted the judgement
                    and order of one whose word would not have had great weight off the field of batle. Very likely they
                    thot the order came from the General in charge. At any rate it was apparently a reasonable command
                    and one easily obeyed.
            Once begun the retreat was exactly what could be expected of new troops. Troops like those of Indiana
                    in the Mexican war could be depended upon to defend a position against odds, to advance and lead, to
                    charge even, but not to retreat calmly under fire. This is an accomplishment of veteran troops only.
                    As long as they had their faces to the front and could see the enemy, fear did not affect them. But
                    with faces toward the rear and the Mexican lancers hard upon their trail, the Indianians did not
                    stop to dispute the ground, nor could they be persuaded to stop and organize while on their way
                    back.
            This brings up the question of how much of the regiment did rally and resume the fight. According to
                    Taylor: 
                        The Second Indiana, which had fallen back could not be rallied and took no further part in
                            the action execpt a handful of men, who, under its gallant leader Colonel Bowles, joined the 
                                Mississippi
                             regiment and did good service, and those fugitives, who at a later period in
                            the day assisted in defending the train and depot at Buena Vista.
                    
            
            Now Taylor's report was based largely upon those of his subordinates. He himself did not
                    witness this part of the battle. Colonel Jefferson Davis, of the First 
                        Mississippi
                    , in his report commented upon the personal gallantry of Colonel Bowles,30
                    
                  
                     29 Lieutenant-Colonel Haddon's narrative of Buena Vista in
                                Western Sun and Advertiser; in Perry, 295.
               
                     and from this source Taylor got his authority for commending the
                    conduct of the colonel of the Second. It was this praise of those who least merited it that made
                    Taylor's words especially obnoxious. The one who failed to perform his duty was reported
                    on favorably. Those who rallied and fought as a regiment, after a retreat caused by this one man,
                    not only failed to receive the praise of their general, but received his condemnation. Indeed
                    General Taylor has been accused of yeilding to a common weakness, favoritism to relatives and
                    prejudice for political and sectional considerations. 
                        From a superficial reading of the report one would be led to believe that this 
                                Mississippi
                             regiment, commanded by Colonel Davis, son-in-law of Taylor, with three hundred
                            and twenty-eight men rank and file, all told had fought the whole battle and was entitled to
                            all the credit, being occasionally assisted by the Second 
                                Kentucky
                             and the First 
                                Illinois
                            , commanded by a Kentuckian.31
                  
                    
            
            At roll call on February 23 the total membership of the Second did not exceed three hundred and sixty
                    men. Two companies, Osborne's and Walker's, had been taken the day before, to
                    help form the battalion of riflemen under Major Gorman of the Third Indiana. This left in the
                    regiment eight companies averaging forty five men each in the ranks.32 When
                    Bowles gave the order to retreat he seems to have had only one idea of getting himself and the men
                    out of danger. He did not think of appointing a rallying place or of sending the flag to the rear to
                    serve as such. Of course he completely forgot that he himself was subject to order. As soon as the
                    men began ___he backward movement, Bowles entirely lost
                    communication with them, as a commander.
            When General Lane saw the men retreating he looked ahead and saw La Bosca, the ravine, a broad trench
                    lying across the line of flight. To it he rode at full speed, taking with him Lieutenant-Colonel
                    Haddon and Major Cravens. Facing about on the far side of the ravine they confronted the men.
                    Fifteen of them ran by in panic to the sheep ranch nearly a mile away. Approximately one hundred and
                    ninety listened and fell in line. Others who assisted in steming the tide of retreat were
                    Inspector-General Churchill, Major 
                  
                     30
                            National Documents, 1846-7. p 197.
                  
                     31 Comment on Taylor's report, by J. B. Hall, Indiana Tri-weekly Journal, May 21, 1847.
               
                     Munroe of the artillery, Captain Steen of the First dragoons and
                    paymaster Dix.33 The rest of the men were accounted for by the men in camp the
                    following evening.34.
            
               
                  Killed and Wounded
                  90
               
               
                  Caring for these
                  40
               
               
                  Rallied by Bowles
                  25
               
               
                  Rallied at Ranch
                  15
               
               
                  Rallied by Lane and others
                  190
               
               
                  Total
                  360
               
            
            The court of inquiry placed the number rallied at from one hundred and fifty to two hundred.
            Lieutenant-Colonel Haddon's narrative of the battle does not quite agree with that of
                    Carleton nor does Carleton's agree with that of Scribner, yet all three men were present
                    at the battle. The differences are in details only. All agree that the number rallied was about two
                    hundred men. According to Carleton, Major Dix carried the colors and by his pleas got the men to
                    rally about him. Haddon had Private Moberly carrying the banner. The three accounts also differ as
                    to the exact place at which the reassembling took place. At any rate Lieutenant-Colonel Haddon took
                    command and as he passed close by the First 
                        Mississippi
                     he ordered out those Indianians whom he saw, telling them that they must fight as
                    Indianians if they wanted to get credit as such. The rallied regiment took path down a ravine and
                    coming upon the 
                        Mississippi
                     regiment under Colonel Davis at the bottom, was ordered by General Lane to form
                    alongside it, Here the men fought, under their own commander, during the rest of the engagement.
                    This body of men which rallied and finished the battle under their Lieutenant-Colonel, and
                    consisting of three-fourths of the available men of the regiment, General Taylor entirely overlooked
                    in that part of his report dealing with the retreat of the Second.35
            
            General Taylor's report was based upon personal observation and the reports of the
                    subordinate officers. For the 
                  
                     32 Wallace, Autobiography, 184.
                  
                     33 For Dix's part in this work see Chapter II. above.
                  
                     34 It was here that Wallace got the apportionment. He believed them
                            and said that if they were untrue there was no honor among men.
                  
                     35 In the action at Buena Vista the Second Indiana lost 107 men. Only
                            one regiment suffered a greater loss. This fact alone would do much to prove the charges of
                            cowardice an unjust one.
               
                     events connected with the Second in the early part of the battle
                    he had to rely wholly upon the latter. There is no evidence that General Taylor had any motive for
                    doing injustice to any of his troops. It was his duty to give a true account of the details of the
                    battle. This report, altho mistaken as to the facts, was no doubt sincere. The only criticism that
                    could be offered would be for hastiness and lack of careful collecting of the facts. The real fault
                    to be found with General Taylor was that, after he was clearly shown to be wrong, he still
                    stubbornly adhered to his original report. His defense was that from March 6, 1847, to May 3, 1848,
                    nothing had ever happened that would impel him in any way to change the words of his official
                    report, and that until such was the case it was his duty to let the report stand. Yet in that time
                    the court of inquiry had been held, the Second exonerated, and the findings approved by General Wool
                    and published by him as an order to the whole army. After deliberate examination of witnesses the
                    court freed the regiment from all blame. With this primary purpose accomplished, Taylor said a year
                        later,36 that such a move could only mean great injury to the Second and the
                    state. He regretted that such forbearance did not suggest itself to those interested.
            In one of his letters to George G. Dunn, Taylor said that on examining the official papers on record
                    in the office of his adjutant-general he had found no evidence that the proceedings of the court of
                    inquiry instituted at the request of General Lane were ever sent to him. To the best of his
                    reccollection they were not sent. The court was ordered by General Wool and probably he thot it
                    unnecessary to send the proceedings to Taylor. General Taylor severely criticised General Lane for
                    his failure to submit a supplemental report if he thot his first one needed correcting. Taylor says
                    he had nothing to do with Lane's supplementary letter, he would not call it a report, of
                    May 10, 1847. It was not a report. He saw it first in the newspapers. As far as he knew no such was
                    ever made, hence there was no warrant for changing his own detailed report. However, he did change
                    the word "ordered" to "intended", 
                  
                     36 Dunn's letter, March 24, 1848, in Weekly
                                Journal, April 21, 1848.
               
                     agreeable to Lane's supplemental report of March
                        24.37 Taylor stated that Lane should have called for reports from his
                    subordinates immediately ofter the battle, and that he did not do this. Bowles never did make any
                    report of the part his regiment played in the battle. Taylor suggested that even at that late time
                    such a report might do some good. The Paoli Telegraph of July 22, 1847, contained
                    a document signed by Bowles entitled "A Report of the Part Taken by the Second Regiment of
                    Indiana Volunters in the Battle of Buena Vista in Mexico, on 22nd and 23rd of February
                    1847." With one or two exceptions the volunteers said the statements were all false and
                    hooted at the very idea of it. The invitation that Taylor held out to Bowles for a report was taken
                    by many as an insult to the State. 
                        The idea is enough to make the blood boil. Taylor can rest assured that if the report of
                            Lane, the Court of Inquiry, Orders of Wool, the testimoy of Colonel Dix, etc. is not
                            sufficient vindication, the people of Indiana will never, never seek such a vindication from
                            the hands of Colonel William A. Bowles.38
                  
                    
            
            It was strange, indeed, that General Taylor would not call Lane's supplementary
                    "letter" a report,-exactly what rule of military etiquette forbade it he did not
                    state, and yet was willing to receive personally and forward to the war office a report from Bowles
                    nearly a year after he had ceased to be an officer in the army. It has never been made clear why
                    Taylor seemed to be willing to accept the word of Bowles, not an officer, while to the verdict of a
                    court sanctioned by himself, constituted according to all the forms of the law and founded on the
                    testimony of honorable witnesses, he attached no importance.
            As General Lane was returning from Mexico he called on Taylor at Monterey and discussed the retreat
                    of the Second and the court findings. Lane spoke of Taylor's report and the wrong
                    impressions conveyed by it. Taylor gave Lane to understand that he would make a satisfactory
                    explanation of the whole affair and make his report conform to the facts established by the court of
                        inquiry.39 With this assurance Lane 
                  
                     37 This report of May 10, 1847 was Lane's final and
                            detailed account of his command in the battle. When he made his official report he was not
                            satisfied that the regiment had retreated by order from its colonel.
                  
                     38 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Democrat, August 24, 1848.
                  
                     39 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Democrat, August 24, 1848.
               
                     left and told his men of his brigade that Taylor would make
                    everything right. One reason why he did not do so was Bowles' good story. On the march to
                    Mexico Coloned Bowles told Taylor that the want of efficient drill and discipline in his regiment
                    was due much to his own personal difficulties with General Lane. The trips that he made to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to establish his claim to the colonelcy of the Second kept him away from his regiment
                    for some time. According to Bowles this absence was the cause. in a great measure, of the poor drill
                    and his own imperfect knowledge of requirements and customs of the service. No doubt Bowles made out
                    a very good story to the general, for Taylor said, "he appeared in much distress of
                    mind." 
                        He probably shed tears, for a hypocrite can weep. He, the man who had been willing to consign
                            to eternal imfamy a whole regiment of men, not one of whom but had a character dear to him
                            as life, itself, appealed to General Taylor, as we must believe from the evidence before us,
                            to save him, the recreant Bowles, the false Bowles, the unprincipled Bowles, from that fate
                            which he so justly deserved, and in his place sacrifice the brave spirits who composed the
                            Second Indiana Regiment; to fasten eternal reproach upon the reputation of the living and
                            the memory of the dead.40
                  
                    
            
            There can be little doubt but that, after the court of inquiry and Bowles's failure to
                    make a report, Taylor was certain of the order to retreat having been given. Altho not officially
                    required to do so, he might have saved himself a lot of trouble and Indiana much humiliation had he
                    corrected it. For an explanation of his failure one must look largely to the temperament of the man.
            He was firm, proud, prejudiced against volunteers and rather stubborn.42 When
                    Lane desired a court martial for Bowles he refused permission and regarded the court of inquiry as
                    an outgrowth of private animosities among the officers. The court, tho regular in proceedure knew
                    that it was not looked upon with favor and this is probably the reason that a report of the
                    proceedings was not sent him. Perhaps he regarded the squabbles of the volunteers as too numerous
                    and hopeless to bother with. At any rate he showed an 
                  
                     40
                            Ibid This was essentially the opinion of Bowles in Indiana and
                            his later record was not such as to call for a change of opinion.
                  
                     42 It was later said that he "cussed" them on many
                            occasions.
               
                     unreasonable determination to stick to his first statements as
                    made in his official report, regardless of circumstances.
            The turmoil over the retreat of the Second Indiana was the most general and intense of the many
                    wrangles that came out of Buena Vista. There was one other, however worthy of attention. That was
                    the little affair over the failure of Taylor to give the Third Indiana due praise. In this case it
                    was not Taylor but General Lane who suffered the blame, for it was to the latter that General Taylor
                    looked for an account of the Third.43
            
            After enumerating the great odds against which the 
                        Mississippi
                     regiment fought and very warmly praising it, Taylor added the following concerning the
                    Third Indiana. 
                        The Third Indiana regiment, under Colonel Lane, and a fragment of the Second, under Colonel
                            Bowles, wee associated with the 
                                Mississippi
                             regiment, during the greater portion of the day, and acquitted themselves
                            creditably in repulsing the attempts of the enemy to break that portion of our line.
                    
            
            The members of the Third became very indignant at thus being "also mentioned" along
                    with the reorganized Second. The regiment played a part second to none in the battle. It had been
                    posted near the pass near 
                        Washington
                    's battery and stood the artillery fire until the Second Indiana,
                            
                  Kentucky, Illinois
                and 
                        Mississippi
                     troops had been successively driven back by overwhelming numbers. Twice the Mexicans
                    were driven back in front but when they turned the flanks and took up a position next the mountains
                    the regiment was ordered there and formed a junction with Colonel Davis's regiment and
                    the Second Indiana which had been rallied. This force advanced upon the infantry and lancers and
                    kept up a brisk 
                  
                     43
                            Reminisences of Edward T. Dickey, Co. G, Third Indiana, Perry, 133. "Much has been said at various times about the part played
                                in the battle of Buena Vists by the Indiana troops. I have never yet seen but one
                                account (and that was written by Colonel James H. Lane, of the Third regiment, and
                                pertained only to the action of his regiment) which appearded to me to have been written
                                by anyone having personal knowledge of the facts; and I have never yet seen the true
                                reason given for the misstatements in the official reports of the battle, as to the
                                Indianians. So far as the Third Regiment was concerned, it grew out of the fact that
                                General Joseph Lane, Brigadier-General of the Indiana Troops, neither called for nor
                                received any report from Colonel Lane of the action of his regiment (the Third), but
                                made report of his brigade, when the truth was he had no connection
                                with or command over the Third Regiment at any time during the battle. Where General
                                Lane was during the day of the 23rd of February, 1847, the Third Indiana did not know,
                                for no one who remained in the ranks saw him until after the Mexicans were driven away
                                by the Third Indiana from their slaughter of the Kentuckians and Illinoisians, in the
                                afternoon of that day."
                  
               
                     fire until it was ordered to cease by General Taylor. It was
                    then that the lancers made the charge upon the V formation of the 
                        Mississippi
                     and two Indiana Regiments. The credit for repelling this charge was generally given the 
                        Mississippi
                     regiment. Colonel Lane" said that this charge was made in column upon the
                    extreme right of the Third, the other two regiments being on the left. The lancers were permitted to
                    approach within twenty-five steps of the line before Colonel Lane gave the command to fire. They
                    were repulsed and fled under cover of their battery while the infantry dispersed among the
                    mountains. The Third moved to the vicinity of O'Brien's battery and when it
                    arrived there the 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     troops, overpowered by numbers, were retreating, with the enemy pressing hotly upon
                    them and the battery, which was in immediate danger of being captured. When the Third opened fire
                    the Mexicans retreated in disorder. This last blow finished the day's work and the Third
                    did not leave the field but bivouacked there in the most advanced position held by the American
                    troops in the morning.
            Some of Lane's ambitious enemies even had an elaborate explanation ready as to the exact
                    reason General Lane did not ask for a report from Colonel Lane of the Third. It was because of the
                    feud or "bad blood" existing between these two men.45 They had
                    come to blows the Saturday before the battle and shortly afterward General Lane challenged Colonel
                    Lane to a duel which was still pending at the time of the battle. There had been ill feeling between
                    these two men ever since the Third Indiana had left Matamoras ahead of the Second, which was General
                    Lane's favorite regiment. Similar incidents at Camargo and Monterey added to the
                    jealousy.
            On the Saturday before Buena Vista, Colonel Lane had drawn up his regiment in a hollow square and he
                    and the other field officers were discussing a plan on the part of the colonel, Adjutant Daily and
                    Captain T. Ware Gibson to continue the Third in the service leaving out Lieutenant-Colonel McCarty
                    and Major Gorman. After the officers had made their statements, General Lane, who had been standing
                    just outside of 
                  
                     44 In letter to the New Oreleans, Delta, in Tri-weekly Journal, June 7, 1847.
                  
                     45 Letter from "A Taylor Whig." 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Tri-weekly Journal. February 9, 1848.
               
                     the lines listening to the discussion, stepped inside and
                    presented his view of the subject. In doing this he said something that Colonel Lane said he did not
                    believe. General Lane replied that "he did not care whether Colonel Lane believed what he
                    said or not. "Colonel Lane's answer was that "a man who did not care
                    what he did say was not likely to care whether what he said was believed." The General
                    asked if the Colonel meant to say that he was a man who disregarded his word. The reply was,
                    "I do, by-,sir," At this the General struck at him but Colonel Lane dodged and
                    struck his superior in the face. The officers at this time separated the two men. As the general
                    started away he told Colonel Lane to prepare himself. The colonel drew up his men facing the camp
                    and while he was telling them that the trouble was his own and that he wished them to keep out of
                    it, the general was seen coming thru the camp with a rifle on his shoulder. Colonel Lane could not
                    see him. At about thirty yards the general stopped and called "are you ready, Colonel
                    Lane?" The colonel looked around and when he grasped the situation ordered a man
                    in the ranks to load his musket and replied "I-can be." Many of the men loaded
                    their miskets. As Colonel Lane was reaching for the gun the guard surrounded the general and took
                    him away. Had the two men exchanged shots the general would likely have killed the colonel and the
                    men of the Third would in all probability have killed the general.46 The
                    challenge to a duel followed at once. Such was the extent of the ill feeling between these two men.
                    It was not likely that General Lane would have taken particular pains to commend the Third in his
                    report of the battle.
            With such things as these going on among the officers it is easy to see why Indiana's
                    record in the Mexican War was not a brilliant one. The Indiana men made as good soldiers as any in
                    the war but they compaigned and fought under very serious handicaps. Of the four leading officers of
                    the Indiana brigade, one brigadier-general and three colonels, not one was able, when he assumed his
                    duties, to lead a company thru the manual of arms. All of them except Bowles tried to learn, but the
                    colonel of the Second did not have any ambition whatever 
                  
                     46 The above account is taken from the Reminiscences of
                                Edward T. Dickey, Co., G, Third Indiana, Perry, 133.
               
                     along this line. His election to the office was very doubtful,
                    yet he had the nerve to hang on. Practically all of the field officers of the Indiana volunteers
                    were the cretures of the politicians. What trained soldiers Indiana had were not elected to places
                    in her regiments. We can hardly blame General Taylor for his reluctance to use the Indiana
                    volunteers. Both he and General Wool knew the facts concerning the manner of officering the
                    regiments. But it was hard on the volunteers to have to suffer for something for which they were in
                    small part to blame.
         
         
         
            Recollections of the Campaign of 1856
            By Edwin P. Harter, 
                        Huntington
                    , Indiana
            During this presidential campaign the writer lived at "Slabtown" or Millersburg,
                    now called Collamer. The name of Slabtown was acquired from some of the first huts built there which
                    were made of "slabs" procured from a saw mill that my father operated there at
                    that time. This mill was an "up and down" cut with the saw in a large frame and it
                    cut lumber with a "stump shot" on it and it cut so slowly through the log that the
                    sawyer often went to sleep during the cut.
            The campaign of which I write was the one between 
                        Fremont
                     and 
                        Dayton
                     on the Abolition ticket and Buchanan and Breckinridge on the Democratic ticket for
                    president and vicepresident. At that time there were about an equal number of ox teams and horse
                    teams and the abolitionists or Republicans in derision named their ox teams "Buck and
                    Breck". Such teams were driven or guided by the names and the oxen readily responded to
                    them.
            Late in the campaign Cassius M. Clay, a nephew of Henry Clay, was billed to make an abolition or
                    Republican speech at 
                        Huntington
                    , Indiana. It was rumored that such a speech would not be permitted in 
                        Huntington
                     which at that time was strongly Democratic and anti-abolition. This attracted much
                    attention and added largely to the crowd.
            
               
                        Springfield
                    , (now South 
                        Whitley
                    ), Collamer, Liberty Mills, and North 
                        Manchester
                     arranged to "pool" their delegations and fixed on Claysville (which I
                    think is now Bippus) as a meeting place. Each delegation had its own music, consisting of a fifer, a
                    bass drummer and one or more tenor drummers, as bands were unknown at that time in our part of the
                    country.
            I recollect that John Summers was our bass drummer and he beat on one end of the drum and then on the
                    top of the drum on the other end and he created an impression in my mind that he was a wonderful
                    musician.
            We met at the appointed hour at Claysville and "organized"  by electing Mr. Parker as grand marshal. He was from Liberty Mills and
                    at that town had laid in a liberal supply of plain whiskey which was easy to do owing to the fact
                    that Judge Comstock had located a distillery at that place and the price of whiskey was only 15
                    cents per gallon, (no tax). Right here I want to deny, not from actual experience, but from
                    observation, the oft repeated statement of the older liberals that the "long ago"
                    whiskey would not make one drunk.
            I think it was then that it acquired the name of "40 rod" whiskey, as that distance
                    was the limit that a half pint could be carried on the "inside". I have seen the
                    "swamp angels", come into Collamer on horse back, wearing their red backed jackets
                    or vests, (they were North Carolinians), and in half an hour all be too drunk to get on their
                    horses, after drinking Judge Comstocks whiskey, which was kept in the back room of Bobby Reeds store
                    with a tin cup on the barrel. The whiskey was free to all customers.
            It was noted that while Mr. Parker was full he could still ride his horse, owing to long practice
                    under such conditions, and the further fact that his horse seemed to understand the situation and
                    materially aided the rider in retaining is seat. I distinctly recollect the scare he gave me by
                    seeming to go to one side and then straightening up only to go as far to the other side. However, he
                    made the trip without being unhorsed.
            When the "delegations" were made into one, it was said to be a mile long. It was
                    composed of over a hundred men and women equally divided on horse back and huge farm wagons, now
                    called "floats". These wagons or floats had from two to twelve horses attached to
                    each with riders on the "head" horses of the wagons with four or more horses. Each
                    delegation had a wagon with a pole twenty-five to thirty feet high guyed to the corners and with the
                    stars and stripes floating from the pole, (there were no telegraph or telephone wires to interfere
                    then).
            I most distinctly recollect one wagon with twelve horses that carried twenty-six ladies dressed in
                    white, each one representing one state in the union with the name of the state on a  strip pinned across her shoulder and one lady in black with
                    "bleeding 
                        Kansas
                    " on her strip. At that time there were twenty-six states in the union and the
                    territory of 
                        Kansas
                     had a miniature war on hand trying to keep it from being admitted as a slave state.
            This wagon met with trouble at the Clear Creek hill. The wagons were of the old kind with
                    "linch pin" axles and pine tar for lubricant and the heavy load caused the tar to
                    take fire going up the hill. Water was needed and some thoughtful fellows ran back down to Clear
                    creek and carried water in their hats and put out the fire. The speaking was to occur in a grove on
                    the south side of the river. We crossed the canal near where 
                        Washington
                     and Jefferson streets cross on a bridge and we crossed the river below where the
                    Jefferson street bridge now is.
            I climbed into the forks of a tree and heard the speech. It was my political baptism. Mr. Clay was
                    six feet tall, straight and fine looking and he looked very impressive to me. The first words I did
                    not hear, as I was on the ground but I was told he took out a document that he said was the
                    constitution of the 
                        United States
                     as he might have occasion to refer to it, then he produced a book that he said was the
                    holy Bible and he remarked that he might want to read something in it; then he laid a long old
                    fashioned "horse pistol" in front of him as a paper weight and he said it was for
                    any man that dared to interrupt him. After this occurred, I got in the tree fork and heard all the
                    speech. I distinctly remember him saying you scamps in referring to the democrats and the laws they
                    passed such as the "Fugitive Slave" law, etc.
            The meeting was a great success with no disturbance and was attended by large delegations from
                            
                  Wabash, Marion
               , Ft. 
                        Wayne
                     and other small towns, but the campaign was a failure as 
                        Fremont
                     and 
                        Dayton
                     were defeated and I was almost broken-hearted.
            Dr. Edwards of South 
                        Whitley
                     and Rev. Hugh Wells of 
                        Columbia City
                     both took active part in the campaign. The defeat in this election led up to the
                    glorious victory in the next in which we elected the greatest of all presidents, Abraham Lincoln,
                    whose name and services are now revered by the members of both parties in the north and south alike,
                    altho we had to teach the south that this union could not be divided.
            
            During the time of which this article refers to there were lines of travel designated as
                    "underground" railways through which slaves from the south passed on their way to 
                        Canada
                     and freedom. One of the "stations" consisting of a cellar with beds
                    and food was kept at North 
                        Manchester
                    , Indiana, by a quaker, Morris Place, by name. Owing to friendly relations between our
                    family and Mr. Place, I learned something of the plan to assist escaping colored men. The line of
                    travel ran near to where we lived and my father was occasionally called on to help those escaping.
                    They travelled by night and slept in the daytime to escape being captured.
            It seems strange now that at that time owing to the fugitive slave law it was a crime in Indiana to
                    give a poor man a crust of bread or a drink of water, if he had any negro blood in his veins and was
                    escaping slavery.
            The events related in this article were but forerunners to the one big event that was soon to follow
                    when Ft. Sumter was fired upon in April, 1861.
         
      
   
