
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 2, Issue 4, pages 163-208. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:2+issue:4+year:1906&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
             THE BATTLE OF TIPPECANOE.
            AS DESCRIBED BY JUDGE ISAAC NAYLOR, A PARTICIPANT—A RECENTLY
                    DISCOVERED ACCOUNT.
            
                From the 
                    
                        Lafayette
                      Morning Journal, June 23, 1906
                
            JUDGE ISAAC NAYLOR was quite a prominent figure in the early history of Indiana.
                    He was born in 
                        Rockingham county
                    , in the State of 
                
                    Virginia
                , July 30, 1790. He emigrated with his parents to 
                
                    Kentucky
                 in 1793, and in 1805 moved to 
                    Clark county
                ,this State, taking up his wilderness home near 
                
                    Charlestown
                , which, at that time, was a pioneer settlement. After his fighting
                    career he became a circuit judge, traveling on horseback and holding court in
                    the counties of 
                        Montgomery, 
                
                    Tippecanoe
                , 
                    White
                , 
                
                    Benton
                , 
                Fountain
                and 
                   Jasper
                    , serving twenty years in that capacity. During these years only
                    three cases tried by him suffered reversal by the Supreme Court. The last forty
                    years of his life were spent in 
                
                    Crawfordsville
                .
             Both Judge Naylor and his brother took part in the battle of 
                 Tippecanoe. The former also took part in the finish of the fight at Pigeon
                 Roost massacre, when a very young man, and after the battle of 
                 Tippecanoe was a soldier in the war of 1812. In later years he delivered many
                 addresses on the Tippecanoe battle, and he ardently urged the erection of a monument on the
                    battlefield. He was the first treasurer appointed to receive funds for this
                    purpose, but not receiving any contributions, gave up the task several years
                    before his death, which took place on April 26, 1873.
            Mrs. Mary Naylor Whiteford, a daughter of Isaac Naylor, recently unearthed, among
                    her father's effects, an article about the battle. It gives many
                    interesting points that are new, and is here printed for the first time.
            THE ACCOUNT.
            "I became a volunteer member of a company of riflemen, and on the 12th
                    of September, 1811, we commenced our march 
                toward 
                
                    Vincennes
                , and arrived there in about six days, marching about 120 miles. We
                    remained there about a week and took up the march to a point on the
                Wabash sixty miles above, on the east bank of the
                    river, where we erected a stockade fort, which we named Fort Harrison. This was
                    three miles below where the city of 
                
                    Terre Haute
                 now stands. Colonel Joseph H. Davies, who commanded the dragoons,
                    named the fort. The glorious defense of this fort nine months after by Captain
                    Zachary Taylor was the first step in his brilliant career that afterwards made
                    him President of the 
                
                    United States
                
                . A few days later we took up the march again for the seat of Indian
                    warfare, where we arrived on the evening of November 6, 1811.
             "When the army arrived in view of the Prophet's town, an Indian
                    was seen coming toward General Harrison with a white flag suspended on a pole.
                    Here the army halted, and a parley was had between General Harrison and an
                    Indian delegation, who assured the General that they desired peace, and solemnly
                    promised to meet him next day in council, to settle the terms of peace and
                    friendship between them and the 
                 
                     United States
                 .
            "General Marston G. Clark, who was then brigade major, and Waller
                    Taylor, one of the judges of the General Court of the Territory of Indiana, and
                    afterwards a Senator of the 
                
                    United States
                 from Indiana (one of the General's aides), were ordered to
                    select a place for the encampment, which they did. The army then marched to the
                    ground selected about sunset. A strong guard was placed around the encampment,
                    commanded by Captain James Bigger and three lieutenants. The troops were ordered
                    to sleep on their arms. The night being cold, large fires were made along the
                    lines of encampment and each soldier retired to rest, sleeping on his arms.
            "Having seen a number of squaws and children at the town, I thought the
                    Indians were not disposed to fight. About ten o'clock at night Joseph
                    Warnock and myself retired to rest, he taking one side of the fire and I the
                    other, the other members of our company being all asleep. My friend Warnock had
                    dreamed, the night before, a bad dream which foreboded something fatal to him or
                    to some of his family, as he told me. Having myself no confidence in dreams, I
                    thought but little  about the matter,
                    although I observed that he never smiled afterwards.
            "I awoke about four o'clock the next morning, after a sound and
                    refreshing sleep, having heard in a dream the firing of guns and the whistling
                    of bullets just before I awoke from my slumber. A drizzling rain was falling and
                    all things were still and quiet throughout the camp. I was engaged in making a
                    calculation when I should arrive at home.
            "In a few moments I heard the crack of a rifle in the direction of the
                    point where now stands the Battle Ground house, which is occupied by Captain
                    DuTiel as a tavern. I had just time to think that some sentinel was alarmed and
                    had fired his rifle without a real cause, when I heard the crack of another
                    rifle, followed by an awful Indian yell all around the encampment. In less than
                    a minute I saw the Indians charging our line most furiously and shooting a great
                    many rifle balls into our camp fires, throwing the live coals into the air three
                    or four feet high.
            "At this moment my friend Warnock was shot by a rifle ball through his
                    body. He ran a few yards and fell dead on the ground. Our lines were broken and
                    a few Indians were found on the inside of the encampment. In a few moments they
                    were all killed. Our lines closed up and our men in their proper places. One
                    Indian was killed in the back part of Captain Geiger's tent, while he
                    was attempting to tomahawk the Captain.
            "The sentinels, closely pursued by the Indians, came to the lines of the
                    encampment in haste and confusion. My brother, William Naylor, was on guard. He
                    was pursued so rapidly and furiously that he ran to the nearest point on the
                    left flank, where he remained with a company of regular soldiers until the
                    battle was near its termination. A young man, whose name was Daniel Pettit, was
                    pursued so closely and furiously by an Indian as he was running from the guard
                    fire to our lines, that to save his life he cocked his rifle as he ran and
                    turning suddenly round, placed the muzzle of his gun against the body of the
                    Indian and shot an ounce ball through him. The Indian fired his gun at the same
                    instant, but it being longer than Pettit's the muzzle passed by him and
                    set fire to a handkerchief which he had tied round his head. The Indians made
                    four or five most fierce charges on our lines, yelling and screaming as they
                    advanced,  shooting balls and arrows into
                    our ranks. At each charge they were driven back in confusion, carrying off their
                    dead and wounded as they retreated.
            "Colonel Owen, of 
                Shelby county
            , 
                
                    Kentucky
                , one of General Harrison's volunteer aides, fell early in
                    action by the side of the General. He was a member of the legislature at the
                    time of his death. Colonel Davies was mortally wounded early in the battle,
                    gallantly charging the Indians on foot with his sword and pistols, according to
                    his own request. He made this request three times of General Harrison, before he
                    permitted him to make the charge. This charge was made by himself and eight
                    dragoons on foot near the angle formed by the left flank and front line of the
                    encampment. Colonel Davies lived about thirty-six hours after he was wounded,
                    manifesting his ruling passions in life—ambition, patriotism and an
                    ardent love of military glory. During the last hours of his life he said to his
                    friends around him that he had but one thing to regret—that he had
                    military talents; that he was about to be cut down in the meridian of life
                    without having an opportunity of displaying them for his own honor, and the good
                    of his country. He was buried alone with the honors of war near the right flank
                    of the army, inside of the lines of the encampment, between two trees. On one of
                    these trees the letter ‘D’ is now visible. Nothing but the
                    stump of the other remains. His grave was made here, to conceal it from the
                    Indians. It was filled up to the top with earth and then covered with oak
                    leaves. I presume the Indians never found it. This precautionary act was
                    performed as a mark of peculiar respect for a distinguished hero and patriot of 
                
                    Kentucky
                .
            "Captain Spencer's company of mounted riflemen composed the
                    right flank of the army. Captain Spencer and both his lieutenants were killed.
                    John Tipton was elected and commissioned as captain of this company in one hour
                    after the battle, as a reward for his cool and deliberate heroism displayed
                    during the action. He died at 
                
                        Logansport
                 in 1839, having been twice elected Senator of the 
                
                    United States
                 from the State of Indiana.
            "The clear, calm voice of General Harrison was heard in words of heroism
                    in every part of the encampment during the action. Colonel Boyd behaved very
                    bravely after repeating these words: 
                    ‘Huzza! My sons of gold, a few more fires and victory will be
                    ours!’
            "Just after daylight the Indians retreated across the prairie toward
                    their town, carrying off their wounded. This retreat was from the right flank of
                    the encampment, commanded by Captains Spencer and Robb, having retreated from
                    the other portions of the encampment a few minutes before. As their retreat
                    became visible, an almost deafening and universal shout was raised by our men.
                    ‘Huzza! Huzza! Huzza!’ This shout was almost equal to that
                    of the savages at the commencement of the battle; ours was the shout of victory,
                    theirs was the shout of ferocious but disappointed hope.
            "The morning light disclosed the fact that the killed and wounded of our
                    army, numbering between eight and nine hundred men, amounted to one hundred and
                    eight. Thirty-six Indians were found near our lines. Many of their dead were
                    carried off during the battle. This fact was proved by the discovery of many
                    Indian graves recently made near their town. Ours was a bloody victory, theirs a
                    bloody defeat.
            "Soon after breakfast an Indian chief was discovered on the prairie,
                    about eighty yards from our front line, wrapped in a piece of white cloth. He
                    was found by a soldier by the name of Miller, a resident of 
                
                    Jeffersonville
                , Indiana. The Indian was wounded in one of his legs, the ball
                    having penetrated his knee and passed down his leg, breaking the bone as it
                    passed. Miller put his foot against him and he raised up his head and said:
                    ‘Don't kill me, don't kill me.’ At the
                    same time five or six regular soldiers tried to shoot him, but their muskets
                    snapped and missed fire. Major Davis Floyd came riding toward him with dragoon
                    sword and pistols and said he ‘would show them how to kill
                    Indians,’ when a messenger came from General Harrison commanding that
                    he should be taken prisoner. He was taken into camp, where the surgeons dressed
                    his wounds. Here he refused to speak a word of English or tell a word of truth.
                    Through the medium of an interpreter he said that he was a friend to the white
                    people and that the Indians shot him, while he was coming to the camp to tell
                    General Harrison that they were about to attack the army. He refused to have his
                    leg amputated, though he was told that amputation was the  only means of saving his life. One dogma of Indian
                    superstition is that all good and brave Indians, when they die, go to a
                    delightful region, abounding with deer and other game, and to be a successful
                    hunter, he should have all his limbs, his gun and his dog. He therefore
                    preferred death with all his limbs to life without them. In accordance with his
                    request he was left to die, in company with an old squaw, who was found in the
                    Indian town the next day after he was taken prisoner. They were left in one of
                    our tents.
            "At the time this Indian was taken prisoner, another Indian, who was
                    wounded in the body, rose to his feet in the middle of the prairie, and began to
                    walk towards the woods on the opposite side. A number of regular soldiers shot
                    at him but missed him. A man who was a member of the same company with me, Henry
                    Huckleberry, ran a few steps into the prairie and shot an ounce ball through his
                    body and he fell dead near the margin of the woods. Some 
                
                    Kentucky
                 volunteers went across the prairie immediately and scalped him,
                    dividing his scalp into four pieces, each one cutting a hole in each piece,
                    putting his ramrod through the hole, and placing his part of the scalp just
                    behind the first thimble of his gun, near its muzzle. Such was the fate of
                    nearly all of the Indians found dead on the battle-ground, and such was the
                    disposition of their scalps.
            "The death of Owen, and the fact that Davies was mortally wounded, with
                the remembrance also that a large portion of 
                
                    Kentucky
                's best blood had been shed by the Indians, must be their
                    apology for this barbarous conduct. Such conduct will be excused by all who
                    witnessed the treachery of the Indians, and saw the bloody scenes of this
                    battle.
            "Tecumseh being absent at the time of battle, a chief called White Loon
                    was the chief commander of the Indians. He was seen in the morning after the
                    battle, riding a large white horse in the woods across the prairie, where he was
                    shot at by a volunteer named Montgomery
                    , who is now living in the southwest part of this State. At the
                    crack of his rifle the horse jumped as if the ball had hit him. The Indian rode
                    off toward the town and we saw him no more. During the battle the prophet was
                    safely located on a hill, beyond the reach of our balls, praying to the Great
                    Spirit to give the victory to the Indians, having  previously assured them that the Great Spirit would
                    change our powder into ashes and sand.
            "We had about forty head of beef cattle when we came to the battle. They
                    all ran off the night of the battle, or they were driven off by the Indians, so
                    that they were all lost. We received rations for two days on the morning after
                    the action. We received no more rations until the next Tuesday evening, being
                    six days afterwards. The Indians having retreated to their town, we performed
                    the solemn duty of consigning to their graves our dead soldiers, without shrouds
                    or coffins. They were placed in graves about two feet deep, from five to ten in
                    each grave.
            "General Harrison having learned that Tecumseh was expected to return
                    from the south with a number of Indians whom he had enlisted in his cause,
                    called a council of his officers, who advised him to remain on the battlefield
                    and fortify his camp by a breastwork of logs around, about four feet high. This
                    work was completed during the day and all the troops were placed immediately
                    behind each line of the work when they were ordered to pass the watchword from
                    right to left every five minutes, so that no man was permitted to sleep during
                    the night. The watchword on the night before the battle was ‘Wide
                    awake,’ ‘Wide awake.’ To me it was a long,
                    cold, cheerless night.
             "On the next day the dragoons went to 
                 
                     Prophet's town
                 , which
                    they found deserted by all the Indians, except an old squaw, whom they brought
                    into the camp and left her with the wounded chief before mentioned. The dragoons
                    set fire to the town and it was all consumed, casting up a brilliant light amid
                    the darkness of the ensuing night. I arrived at the town when it was about half
                    on fire. I found large quantities of corn, beans and peas. I filled my knapsack
                    with these articles and carried them to the camp and divided them with the
                    members of our mess, consisting of six men. Having these articles of food, we
                    declined eating horse-flesh, which was eaten by a large portion of our
                    men."
         
         
         
            JOHN TIPTON'S TIPPECANOE JOURNAL.
             [John Tipton's Journal of the 
                 Tippecanoe
                 campaign is, we believe, the only circumstantial account left us of
                    an event memorable in the military history of Indiana. It is practically
                    inaccessible to the student, as it has been published in newspaper form only
                        (
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             News of May 5, 1879). The original manuscript of the
                    journal, together with that of 
                        Tipton's journal as a commissioner to locate the State capital in
                    1820, and a minor Indian campaign in 1813, are in the possession of John H.
                    Holliday, of 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                 . Eventually these journals, carefully annotated by Mr. Holliday,
                    will probably be published in the collections of the Indiana Historical Society.
                    Pending that more permanent form we here print the 
                 Tippecanoe document as a companion article to Judge Naylor's account,
                    and to the commissioner's journal, which appeared in Vol. I, Nos. 1 and
                    2 of this magazine.—Editor.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    An accompt of the march and encampment of the
                                        riflemen of 
                                        
                                            harrison county
                                         I. T. [Indiana Territory]
                                        commanded by Capt. Spencer, consisting of 47 men besides officers in
                                        Company with Capt. R M heath, with 22 men.
                                
                         Thursday 12 of September, 1811— Left 
                             
                                 Corydon
                              at 3
                                    o'clock, march six miles to governor
                                    harrison's mill and encampt. had our horses in good
                                    pasture.
                        13th. Marched 24 miles and on the way was join by Capt Berry with
                                    20 men and Encampt at a good spring.
                        14th. Marched 3 miles and encampt at half moon spring. Was joined
                                    by Capt baggs with a troop of horse, and in the evening by Col
                                    bartholomew, with 120 of melitia from 
                            
                                Clark County
                            .
                        Sunday 15 two horses missing the millitia and Capts heath and
                                    Berry and Capt Baggs left us. One of our horses soon found the
                                    other being astray was stolen [?] by the oner and one man left
                                    on foot but shortly got to ride to 
                            White river and we moove on 15 miles and overtook the army
                                    encampt at a branch which was the first time I ever saw gard set
                                    out.
                        Monday the 16 we set out early. Crosst one fork of
                            White River and went through the
                                    Barrens to a branch and encamped 3 miles from the main fork.
                         tuesday 17 marchd to Big Prairie and camped at a Lake one mile from the wabash.
                        
                         Wed. 18 it Rained hard in the morning and I went to vincennis [
                             
                                 Vincennes
                             ] and came back to the Lake in the Evening and found
                                    the company had moved to Bass Roe Creek seven mile up the River.
                        thursday 19. I moved on early with orders from the Capt for the
                            company to move to 
                            
                                vincennis
                            , but the mayjor would not consent
                                    thereto, we did not go this day, myself and others lost money
                                    shooting. I was goosed.
                        friday 20 staid all day in camp and cut out∗ a gun and in the evening went to shooting
                                    and win some money.
                        Saturday 21st I cut out a gun and went to 
                            Shakertown and got my
                                    mare shod, the men was Paraded and marched to the big 
                                        Prairie
                                     and mustered till late and in the time mutinized
                                    [?] with some of Capt heath's men, but marched back at
                                    sunset and dismisst in order.
                        Sunday 22d.—The Capt with three men from each mess
                            went to Shakertown to meeting, and in the evening returned and
                            took dinner, when orders came for us to lie in 
                            
                                vincennis
                             by ten
                                    o'clock next day and we were ordered to march fifteen
                                    minutes. We accordingly mooved seven miles, and lay without fire
                                    this evening.
                        Monday the 23d.—We moovd on early to mercah [?] creek
                            and took breckfast, and moovd thence to 
                            
                                vincennis
                             where we had a
                                    general Parade, and in the Evening myself and three others got
                                    Parted from the Company and lay all night by ourselves only with
                                    too of Capt heath's men.
                        Tuesday the 24th. we moovd Early and soon found our company.
                            Campt at a cornfield two miles from 
                            
                                vincennis
                            . I staid in camp
                                    and shot several guns and mended them and at dark it Began to
                                    rain and rained all night hard my Capt came to camp and informd
                                    us that several Indians ware in town talking to the governor.
                        Wednesday 25th a fine day I went to a shop and came back and
                                    mended gunlock then went to shooting and win whisky and
                                    legg's [leggings?].
                        Thursday 26th we mooved after Breckfast into town and our Capt
                            treated and also a tavern keeper. We crosst the 
                            Wabash
                            and fired two Platoons, and then went up to Capt
                                    Jubaus [Du 
                              
                                 ∗To cut lead from
                                            rifles in the barrel.
                           
                                     Bois?] and fired again and
                                    too [took?] Dinner. much whisky drank which caused quarreling,
                                    moved again thro a Prairie six miles wide and campd and Drawd corn and
                                    potatoes, our Pilot left us and went home, we lay ten miles from
                                    town.
                        Friday the 27th we marched at 12 o'clock through a Small Prairie: 
                            went four miles and campd. I went to hunt and
                                    killed two Squirls and a hawk.
                        Saturday 28th it Began to Rain at Day Brake; myself and two
                                    others went to hunt and staid out till two o'clock came
                                    to camp and found the men had left us we took their trail found
                                    two men waiting with our horses and took Breckfast as we rode
                                    and went through good land and a Beautifull Prairie Seven miles wide called Demot and a Creek of the
                                    same name overtook the company after sixteen miles just as they
                                    stopt we also Passt a blockhouse in the Prairie.
                        Sunday 29th we mooved at ten stopt at a house bought a horse for
                                    our footman, too seargeants that had been sent to stock a gun
                                    that got broke on the 26th came up. we went 6 miles Part Prairie and Part Barrens. Croost 
                            Birch Creek and came to
                                    the River and campd near a Prairie
                                     and some men went to hunt and found three Bee trees
                                    in an hour. Spent the evening in cutting them got 9 or 10
                                    gallons of honey. I stood guard, the Boat we were to guard came
                                    up. we Drawd whisky and salt they went on, our men set hooks and
                                    caught two fish.
                        Monday the 30th we mooved after Breckfast throug good land Passt
                                    a good spring and the Creek St. myri [St. Mary?] and through a
                                    beautifull Prairie four miles long and two Broad with a cabin in it.
                                    frost this day in the prairie, went to the river at an oald
                                    Camp. Passt a handsome Barr[en?] then went up and crosst a muddy Creek one of
                                    our horses miered we went throug a rich bottom to the Plaice of
                                    meeting the armey and they ware gone and the Boat left to wait
                                    for us as we found a Bee tree as we marcht three Deers Run along
                                    the Line and a number of guns fired But one killed Stopt in the
                                    evening went to hunt found two Bee trees Campt on the River near
                                    a Prairie with the boat after comeing 10 miles.
                        tuesday the first of october we were alarmed by the centinell
                                    firing his gun he said at an indian. but we soon [found?] to the
                                    contrary we mooved through a Prairie 3 miles and I went to  hunt rode all Day throug a good
                                    bottom land to the Companey at twelve and then went on; the men
                                    found a bee tree while marching and two at noon cut one down and
                                    left the rest. I hunted till night. Crosst two beautifull Creeks
                                    killed two Pigeons one of our horses sick and left by the way.
                                    we went 19 miles and campd with the boat; we past a Prairie
                                    on the other side Drawd whisky and floir but no
                                    corn Since 29 of last mo.
                        Wed the 2d we moved earley through a Rich bottom all day I went
                                    to hunt kild a Pheasant we found two bee trees as we marchd but
                                    could not cut them we came up with the Boat fast on the Barr
                                    , and went to help them off here we crosst the River
                                    and campt after Coming 16 m one of our men had agua yesterday.
                        Thursday 3d marchd at 9 four of our horses missing three men left
                            to hunt them marchd one mile came to 
                            
                                tare holt
                             [terre haute—high land?] an oald indian village on the East
                                    side of Wabash
                            on high land near a Large Prairie Peach and aple trees growing the huts torn down by
                                    the armey that campd here on the 2d two miles further came up
                                    with the armey. horses found. Campd on the river on beautifull
                                    high ground to build a garison.
                        friday 4th a fine day I went to hunt came to camp at three found
                                    thirty men comanded by Lieut mcmahon was to guard a boat going
                                    to the vermillian river for coal I went with them we went 5
                                    miles Part Prairie and Part timbered crosst a fine creek came to
                                    another and campd.
                        Saturday 5th we moved early through good land. Passt three
                                    springs. Some Beautifull prairie some timber. Crost a fine larg
                                    creek went throug a fine Prairie found a Bee tree and stopt to Dine and cut it this
                                    morning one of our men took a swoling in his face and went Back.
                                    All the fore part of this day we had a ridg on our right and
                                    good land good springs on the left in the Evening we marchd hard
                                    crossed four creeks Broken land high timber came up with our
                                    spies and camp with them at a large creek this Day I found land
                                    that is the Best I have seen we crosst the Purchase Line we
                                    traveled 30 miles N. N. West.
                        Sunday 6th we moovd earley one mile came to the river at Coal
                            bank found it was Below the Vermilian [river] half a mile  we took coffey moovd after
                                    the Boat started down, the coal Bank is on the east side of
                                    wabash. we went through a small Prairie, crosst the river to the west side went in on the
                                    head of a barr and came out on the lower end of another on the
                                    west side went through a small Prairie then came to big Prairie
                                    where the oald vermillion town was. we crosst the
                                    wabash half a mile above the mouth of vermillian river Before we
                            came to the above town crosst vermilian river took a south
                                    course throug a Prairie with a good spring and an oald indian hutt then
                                    through a beautifull timbered ground to a small creek and stopt
                                    to let our horses graze then went through good land with a ridg
                                    on our right out of which came four springs and for two miles
                                    nothing But large sugar and walnut. The hill and the river came
                                    close together, we found a good coal Bank 14 miles below
                                    vermilian
                            . we then crosst to the east side went 3 miles and
                                    campd with the Boat, after coming 20 m and finding two Bee trees
                                    left them.
                        Monday the 7th we mooved earley three miles and crosst Raccoon
                                    Creek to the Purchase line thence 15 miles to the grarison
                                    [garrison]. found Capt heath's men Dismisst and him
                                    sick and Capt Berry at home to, our company which lay on the
                                    River above the garrison. The men on the Last Rout Draw Corn
                                    which caused murmuring. Some men wants to go home.
                        tuesday 8th I staid in camp we ware Parrade at twelve treated by
                                    Lt. mcmahan and mustered and had a sham fight, Dismisst in order
                                    Drawd whisky for the time we had been out the men all throwd in
                                    their hats and wrestled. Some men was sent to the Cornfield to
                                    Pull Corn.
                        Wednesday the 9th I staid in Camp Cut out a gun and went to
                                    shooting, a Lt. and 20 men was ordered to Scout, we covered our
                                    camp with grass it Rained hard at two the Scouting Party came in
                                    took Dinner went out again it Rained again hard at sunset.
                        thursday 10th we had a wet night. I cut out a gun and went over
                                    the river and got Powder, a seargeant and ten men was sent out
                                    to scout along the lines, we were alarmed at 8 by the centinel
                                    being shot and badly wounded we were ordered to arms. An officer
                                    was sent from our Part of the Camp to know the alarm, general
                                    orders was for all to git their horses, a guard was to  bee left at our Camp. I was
                                    set out post till the horses was found, we then left our camp
                                    and joined the line. Stood to arms all night till Brake of Day.
                        friday 11. mounted and went to the Prairie in Company with the light horse to look for
                                    indians. we took up the river crosst a creek went through a Prairie 
                                    then crosst the same creek again let our horses
                                    feed half an hour and after traveling 15 miles came to camp at
                                    twelve then Drawd flour whisky and Pickled Pork got breckfast at
                                    four in the evening 5 of the Delaware indians came and took protection. Very high wind a
                                    tree fell close to camp while Riting and a gun heard at the
                                    general Camp also the Drum beat, a strong guard set out.
                        Satturday 12th we were parded [paraded] at day Brake went to the Prairie
                            a seargeant and to men was sent to stay. I was one.
                                    we could find no sine came to the camp in our rout we found too
                                    of the Delaware chiefs they had Came to Camp the day Before to join
                                    us we brought them to Camp one spoke good English Plaid Cards
                                    with our men and informed that thirty of his young men was
                                    comeing to join us. I cut a gun and went to shooting.
                        Sunday the 13 fine day. I stocked a gun at dark we heard a gun
                                    fire at the general Camp but a thing so often Repeated could not
                                    alarm us anymore, yesterday we drawd corn Beef whisky and flour
                                    soap and candles today salt also this day the governor sends for
                                    more men.
                        Monday the 14 a cloudy day I cut a gun and we moovd to the
                                    general Camp I helped make Boards to cover our Camp. In the
                                    Evening three companies six men each was to go out and ly all
                                    night by three roads to kill indians should they Come I went we
                                    sat all night none came we heard a gun it rained two showers in
                                    the night.
                        tuesday the 15 we returned to Camp at day the Companies of horse
                                    and our company had gone to the Prairie to muster, the Day cloudy all the spies came in
                                    nothing seen I went with another man down to 
                            
                                tare holt
                             to look
                            for indians. we had whisky. Stopt at 
                            
                                tare holt
                             found no indians
                                    went down to drink, it rained some of the indians got drunk we
                                    staid 2 hours. Lost our horses found them a mile down the river
                                    then went to Drink Lost two horses again found them half a mile
                                         off went 2 miles
                                    through the Prairie to an oald villag thence one mile to another
                                    village and cornfield then Returned to Camp was alarmed at the
                                    fire of a gun at 11 o'clock was ordered to lie with our
                                    guns in hand the wind blew hard it Began to Rain at 12 we had to
                                    git up and cover our Camp one of our men Deserted today while I
                                    was out.
                        Wednesday the 16th Could cloudy and windy was mustered as usual.
                                    I was sent with 2 men to spy saw no sign came in. I staid in
                                    Camp was put under guard By mistake took to the governor set at
                                    Liberty and the Right man got. Dragoons sent after three men
                                    that Deserted last night.
                        thursday 17—a hard frost but a fine day we musterd as
                                    usual. I then cut out a gun at 3 in the evening an ensign and
                                    three men went to hunt Capt heath's horses. I was one.
                                    We went 8 miles most of the way Prairie land a south course and campd on the Bed of a large
                                    Dry creek.
                        Friday 18th—a cloudy and windy day we left Camp early
                                    and went to hunt one of our [horses?] we killed a Deer we came
                                    to the army at 2 found the men that had been sent to let the
                                    horses graze had Lost 4 men sent to hunt them this morning, a
                                    number of the Wea indians came to Camp I cut a gun.
                        Saturday the 19—Musterd as usual. Come to Camp Drawd
                                    Beef, Salt, whisky and flour then was Paraded while the governor
                                    informed us that our ration was reduced to 3/4 of a pound of
                                    flour [?] of the contractor failing. He also told us that we
                                    should have to fight the indians. it Began to Rain, we ware
                                    Dismisst it Rained hard till sunset, our men that went out to
                                    hunt the lost horses came in had not found them. I turned out my
                                    mare this morning went to hunt her killed a turkey it stopt
                                    Raining and Began to Snow and Blow hard our Camps smoked it was
                                    the Disagreeablest night I ever saw the men that went to the
                                    corn field Lost Capt Spencer's mare.
                        Sunday 20th a very cold cloudy day the ground Covered with Snow
                                    we Did not muster as usuel. Capt Spencer's mare came to
                                    camp an Ensign and thirteen men went to hunt the horses that
                                    were lost on the 18th we went through the Prairie. Came to an indian Camp then we parted into three
                                    Companies and our Company went up to the Creek 4 miles and
                                    camped at an  oald indian
                                    Camp this morning our Capt and Seargeant quarrelled but soon
                                    Dropt. this night verry cold.
                        monday 21st the morning clier and cold six of us went to hunt two
                                    of our men and an indian killed a deer I wounded a deer we supt
                                    last night on a bit of bread about as big as a man's
                                    two fingers and this morning on vennison without bread we then
                                    went to hunt the horses. Came to where 50 indians was campd.
                                    Lost one of our men. Came to Camp found our hunters had killed
                                    two Deer and our 2d Lieutenant Resigned and gone home.
                        tuesday the 22d a fine day I went to work on the garrison till 12
                                    I then went to let my mare graze when an alarm came 20 men was
                                    ordered to march in 5 minutes, we found it a false Report we
                                    Returned held an Election for 2d Lieut and Ensign.
                        Wednesday the 23d a cold windy and cloudy day. I went out with 7
                                    men to hunt the horses Lost on the 18th we found three horses
                                    belonging to the military oficers. I Rode one of them we parted
                                    into 4 companies the man with me killed a turkey. Came to the
                                    Camp at dark found the indians had brought in the horses and one
                                    of our men killed a deer.
                        thursday 24th a verry cold morning and mustered as usual. I staid
                                    in camp washed my cloths for the first time, went to shooting
                                    this morning a Seargeant and eight men was sent with the spies
                                    and men sent to the corn field to Pull corn. 10 indians seen to
                                    day and in the evening a man drumed out of camp with his head
                                    Shaved and Powdered while Looking at that Capt
                                    Spencer's tent burnt general orders read to march on
                                    the 27th Instant.
                        friday the 25 a Cold morning we mustered as usuel. I staid in
                                    camp cut out three guns a Seargeant and six men went out with
                                    the spies on the west side of the 
                            wabash the men that went out
                                    yesterday came in had killed two Deer and two Raccoons but seen
                                    no sine. 6 men run away and 6 men Came to Camp to Day.
                        Saturday the 26 mustered as usuel marched one mile up the River
                                    then Came to Camp and left our horses went out and had a sham
                                    fight. I cut a gun the men that went out yesterday Came in seed
                                    no sine had killed 2 deer, the men killed an owl and had much
                                    sport tonight.
                        
                        Sunday the 27 a fine clier warm day mustered as usual marched up
                                    the Prairie then into the woods had a sham battle thence to
                                    Camp. I staid in Camp the men went to the Prairie to Run their horses the garrison Christened and
                                    Extra whisky issued.
                        monday the 28 a fine day mustered as usual found the Prairie
                            burnt over with fire. Came to Camp. Cut out a gun
                                    and went to the talk with the Indians then came to my tent was
                                    ordered to parade the Company for to see a man whipt. We was
                                    drawd in a hollo square, three guns got up the man brought in
                                    ordered to [be] stript then pardoned. We came to Camp Re d
                                    [received] money for back ration this day came up [on] Maj Rob
                                    with a Company of mounted Riflemen and three boats and two
                                    Perodues [pirogues] with Corn flour and arms and ammunition, the
                                    above talk was with the miami Chiefs, orders to march tomorrow,
                                    this day I got one gallon of whisky.
                        tuesday 29 we mustered as usuel. Came to Camp was ordered to
                                    march in 30 minutes 20 men Commanded by Capt. Berry went to
                                    guard the Boats that Carried our Provision and a Seargeant with
                                    8 men to guard the gov'r, we mooved to the Prairie
                                    stopt till the Baggage all Came up. I sent Back for
                                    whisky we then mooved off with the whole army Consisting of
                                    about 640 foot 270 mounted men 19 wagons and one Cart. Passt one
                                    Creek and Camped after 5 miles on the same Creek where we Camped
                                    on the 4th Inst. maid us moove Close to the army one horse
                                    killed and a wagon Broke by falling a tree a gueard set out of
                                    our Company.
                        Wednesday the 30 it Began to Rain at 4 in the morning. Raind till
                                    Day Brake then quit it was a Cold Cloudy and windy Day, our
                                    Company in front of the Road broke in four Lines we marched 8
                                    miles and campd at a Spring which I saw on the 5 instant which
                                    is my choice of the western Country it Being near a small
                                    prairie with good timber and First Rate land 2 miles Below the
                                    line [of the "purchase," and on the
                            Wabash river, about 17 miles above
                            where 
                            
                                Terre Haute
                             now stands] and 13 above fort harrison.
                        thursday the 31st we mooved earley too of the oxen missing three
                                    of our men sent to hunt them we Crosst Raccoon Creek saw our men
                                    that went to guard the Boats on the 29th they  Left us we Came to the River where
                            we Campd on our Return from 
                            
                                vermillion
                            on the night of the 6
                                    thence up to the ford. Saw our above mentioned boat guard
                                    crossing the River we halted till the army came up then Rode the
                                    river which was very Deep and then Campd our Boat guard and the
                                    men that went to hunt the oxen Came up when we left the guards
                                    we took a north Cours up the East side of the 
                            Wabash
                            and Crosst to the west with orders to kill all the
                                    Indians we saw, fine news. The governor's wagon Beeing
                                    left this morning in consiquens of the oxen being lost Came up
                                    and all the army crosst in 3 hours We Drawd Corn.
                        Friday the first of November. I was sent with 18 men to Look for
                            a way for the armey to Cross the Littell vermillian marched at
                                    Day Brake came to Creek found and marked the road, waited till
                                    the armey came up went on and campd on the River 2 miles Below
                                    the Big vermillian. 
                            Capt. Spencer myself and 3 others went up the 
                            Big vermillian.
                                    Returned to camp genl [general] Wells with 40 men had came up
                                    and Capt Berry with 9 men had came up. our company marchd in
                                    front today as usuel which now consisted of 87 men in
                                    Consequence of Capt Lindley Been attached to it.
                        Saturday the 2d a fine day Capt Spencer with ten men went out on
                                    a Scout, our Company not Parading as usuel the governor
                                    threatened to brake [?] the officers. I staid in Camp the army
                                    staid here to build a block house on the Bank of the wabash 3
                                    miles Below vermillian in a small Prairie
                            the house 25 feet square and a breast work from
                                    each corner next the River down to the water. Took horses and
                                    Drawd Brush over the Prairie to Break Down the weeds, this Evening a man Come
                                    from the garrison said last night his boat was fired on one man
                                    that was asleep killed Dead, three boats Came up and unloaded
                                    went back took a sick man with them. One of Capt Robs men died
                                    tonight Capt Spencer Came in Late tonight.
                        Sunday the 3d. a Cloudy day we moved Earley our Company marched
                            on the Right wing today. Crosst the 
                            Big vermillian
                            through a Prairie six miles 3 miles through timber then through a wet Prairie
                            with groves of timber in it, after 18 miles camped
                                    in Rich grove of timber in the Prairie. Capt Spencer verry sick today at 10 oclock tonight
                                    the aid Came to  Camp
                                    ordered a subbaton [subaltern?] and ten men to Parad at the
                                    governors tent at 4 in the morning. I was ordered out my Company
                                    made up. a gun fired while I am riting at Eleven oclock.
                        monday the 4 I went out with my scouts. Joined by Capt Prince
                            went 18 miles through a Prairie. Came to 
                            Pine Creek a fine Large Creek then turned
                                    Back the Day Beeing Cold Cloudy and windy. Began to rain at 11.
                                    we stopt to make fire But the armey Came and we had to Leave it.
                                    we crosst Pine Creek and Campt two guns fired at 8. Continued
                                    rain at intervilles. I had one quart of whisky yesterday and one
                                    to Day of the Contractors.
                        tuesday the 5 Cloudy day we mooved earley a Lieutenant and 5 men
                                    sent to Scout. Came to the armey no sine seed we went 6 miles
                                    through timber then Prairie with groves of timber and a number of small lakes
                                    in it—an alarm made. I was sent out with 17 men to
                                    scout seed nothing a deer and a wolf killed in the line, camped
                                    on a Small Branch after 18 miles, the guns fired last night
                                    wounded a horse.
                        Wednesday the 6 a verry Cold day. we mooved earley a scout sent
                                    out they Came back had seed indian sines, we marched as usuel
                                    till 12 our spies caught four horses and seed some indians,
                                    found we were near the Celebrated 
                            
                                Prophets town
                            . Stopt in a
                                    prairie the foot throwd all their napsacks in the waggons, we
                                    formed in order for Battle—marched 2 miles then
                                    formed the line of Battle we marched in 5 lines on the extrem
                                    Right, went into a Cornfield then up to the above town and
                                    surrounded it they met us Pled for Peace they said they would
                                    give us satisfaction in the morning. All the time we ware there
                                    they [were] hallowing. This town is on the west side of 
                            wabash
                            [blank] miles above 
                            
                                Vincinnis
                             on the Second Bank neat built
                                    about 2 hundred yards from the river. This is the main town, but
                                    it is scattering a mile long all the way a fine Cornfield, after
                                    the above moovement we mooved one mile further up. Campd in
                                    timber between a Creek and Prairie after Crossing a fine Creek
                                    and marching 11[?] miles.
                        Thursday the 7 agreeable to their promise [?] Last night we ware
                                    awakened by the firing of guns and the Shawnies Braking into our
                                    tents a blood [y] Combat Took Place at Precisely 15  minutes before 5 in the morning
                                    which lasted two hours and 20 minutes of a continewel firing
                                    while many times mixed among the Indians so that we Could not
                                    tell the indians and our men apart, they kept up a firing on
                                    three sides of us took our tent from the gueard fire, our men
                                    fought Brave and By the timely help of Capt Cook with a Company
                                    of infantry we maid a Charge and Drove them out of the timber
                                    across the prairie, our Losst in killed and wounded was 179 and
                                    theires graiter than ours, among the dead was our Capt Spier
                                    Spencer and first Lieutenant mcmahan and Capt Berry that had
                                    Been attached to our company and 5 more killed Dead and 15
                                    wounded, after the indians gave ground we Burried our Dead.
                                    Among the Kentuckians was killed mayj Davis [Daviess] badly
                                    wounded and a number of others in all killed and wounded was 179
                                    but no company suffered like ours, we then held an Election for
                                    officers. I was elected Capt. Saml Flanagan first Lieut and
                                    Jacob Zenor second Lieut and Philip Bell Ensign, we then built
                                    Breast-works our men in much Confusion, our flower [flour] been
                                    too small and our beeve last. Last night onley half Rations of
                                    whisky and no corn for our horses, my horse killed I got
                                    mcmahons to Ride 37 of them had Been killed wounded and lost
                                    last night. I had one quart of whisky.
                        friday the 8th a cloudy Day and Last night was also wet and Cold,
                                    we Lay all night at our Breastwork without fire in the morning
                                    Spies sent out found the indians had left their town, the
                                    horsemen was all sent to burn their town. We went and found
                                    grait Deal of Corn and Some Dead indians in the houses, loaded 6
                                    waggons with Corn and Burnt what was Estimated at 2 thousand
                                    Bushels and 9 of our men Died last night.
                        Saturday the 9 a cold cloudy day we maid all things Ready to
                                    march got all our wounded in the waggons, mooved at one movd 8 m
                                    [miles] and Campd. Caught some indian horses, today one man
                                    Died. Some indians said to Bee Seen my men and some dragoons was
                                    sent out we Caught 4 horses more Belonging to the indians all my
                                    men that had Lost their horses Except myself was sent to march
                                    with the militia, yesterday we drawed one half Pound of Beef 4-3
                                    [3/4?] of a Pound of flour to last us 5 Days.
                        Sunday the 10, a Cold Cloudy Day we mooved Earley travailing  hard, one of my men had the
                                    ague and two more sick besides 14 that is wounded and yet living
                                    which gives me much trouble, we marchd 15 m. Stopt and maid
                                    Breast work marchd in front Boath Days.
                        Monday the 11 a Cold Cloudy Day we moved Earley 4 miles crosst
                            Pine Creek where we had Camped on the 4 inst thence 22 miles and
                                    Camped in a grove of Timber in a Prairie where we had a camp on the 3 inst. lived today
                                    Chiefly on Parched Corn.
                        Tuesday the 12 a Clier cold night and this morning very cold we
                                    moved Early through wet Prairie all the water frozen over with ice which maid it
                                    very bad for our foot men. we stopt and maid a fire to warm
                                    thence mooved to the Block house Just as we arrived the boat
                                    came up with Provisions we Drawd beef, flour and whisky found
                                    two men here that had run off in time of the battle on the 7
                                    instant. Boats cleard and Preparations maid for to Embark our
                                    sick in the morning. I drawd tents had my sick all laid in them
                                    went to the Doctor had all my wounds Dresst 2 men sick and
                                    fourteen wounded.
                        wednesday the 13 a fine warm day. we put as many of our sick on
                                    board as the boats would hold and then I sent two of my men to
                                    git the waggons the Drivers would not let them in. I went to the
                                    governor and he had them Put in and threatened to Put the
                                    Drivers under guard, we moved on. Crosst 
                            Littell vermillian.
                                    Came to the River at tow [two?] at the same place where we campd
                                    on the 31st of Last month, my Company Crosst first then the
                                    waggons Crosst we drawd them up the Bank the Boats Came Down
                                    Brought over our foot they then took in some of the worst
                                    wounded and mooved off at Dark.
                        thursday the 14 a very Cold Day I was sent on with my Company to
                                    search the ford of Raccoon Creek, we moved on Passt where we
                                    Campd on the 30th of Last month thence on Passt the Creek where
                                    we had Campd on the 29th of last month thence to the next Creek
                                    3 miles and Camped 3 miles from the garrison, a man died
                                    yesterday and buried to Day.
                        friday the 15 a Cold Day. I had orders to go with my Company to
                                    the garrison. Could not find our horses till sunrise, the
                                    mounted men all left us we came to the garrison saluted it with
                                    a fire, got 8 Ears of Corn a piece for our horses. Drawd
                                    Provision. I had a gallon of whisky a seargeant and 4 men Left
                                    to gueard the governor, we moovd 8 miles and Campd at  
                            honey Creek the gov, and my
                                    men Came up. I was Capt of the gueard tonight.
                        Saturday the 16th a very Cold Day my horse Lost my Company Did
                                    not march till after the armey. my horse found. I went through
                                    the train [trail?] ten miles. Crosst a Creek thence through
                                    timbered Land 10 miles the horse and men went to the first
                                    house, got corn then went and campd on a fine Creek.
                        Sunday the 17 a very Cold Day. The governor Came to my Camp
                                    ordered me to take 10 men and go with him to 
                            Shaker-town to make
                                    out muster Rolls for to Dismiss my Company this day we arrived
                                    at 11. I got Ready mustered my Company at Sunset fired to [two]
                                    Rounds we then Campd. my Lieutenant and myself went to a house
                                    found the people kind Beyond expectation. Supt on Chicken,
                                    Butter and tea the first time I Dind in a house since the 18 of
                                    Septem. Returned to Camp Passt a fine night. I had one gallon of
                                    whisky.
                        Monday the 18th a verry Cold Day, we Drawd six Days Rations for
                                    all my men that went home from here. Staid till 11, the gov
                                    Returned thanks for our good conduct. I went 7 miles and put up
                                    at a house had with me my 2d Lieut and 3 men Supt on Pork,
                                    Butter and Honey, my horse lame.
                        tuesday the 19th: I had a good Breckfast before Day, a Cold
                            Cloudy Day 2 of my men brought horses we moovd for vincinnis. I
                                    settled with the Quartermaster and maid out my muster Rolls, it
                                    Began to rain at 12. I had got to town found that 2 of my men
                                    that Came Down in the Boat had Died one on the 16th and the
                                    other on the 18th the Latter Beeing Geo Spencer my Perticuler
                                    friend, my other 2 men very Bad three men that Came Down to
                                    attend the sick informed me they had no Provisions. I
                                    immediately furnished them, the Evening Being Bad I staid in
                                    town had good Company. Partook of an indifferent Supper and Lay
                                    By the fire, my horse that I Rode gave up one of my wounded men
                                    gave me his to Rid[e] and I got a publick horse for him to Ride
                                    home.
                        Wednesday the 20 a very Cloudy Day I was busily Engaged setling
                                    with the Contractor till Late, he would not Pay me. I then went
                                    to the gov. I staid till after supper he wrote to the
                                    Contractor. I found him he told me to Call in the morning. I
                                    then went to my lodgn.
                        
                        thursday 21st. a Cloudy day. I went to the Contractor, he paid me
                                    the money he was Due my Company. I then left town at Eleven one
                                    of my company sick we went 16 miles. Came to 
                            White River my sick man staid and one man with him.
                                    myself and four more went to the next house. Staid there got
                                    good Supper and our horses fed at a moderate Price.
                        friday the 22 a cold morning we staid till our two men Came up.
                                    Passt our Camp of the 15 at 7, we moved on and at 8 Passt where
                                    we Campd on the 16 of September, went on 18 miles at 1 Came to
                                        Drift river [west fork of
                            White river] fed our horses and found
                                    one man who had gone on and walked, fed our horses and took
                                    Dinner at 2 went on at Sunset Crosst Lick Creek and at half Past
                            10 Came to the 
                            
                                french lick
                            , we had our horses fed at our sick
                                    mans brothers.
                        Saturday the 23d a Cloudy Day we moved early 10 miles and at 10
                            stopt took breckfast then went on. Crosst Patoka one of our men
                                    left behind yesterday. I found a militia man gave out walking
                                    and I walked and let him Ride my horse. Passed a bad falling [of
                                    timber?] Stopt to let our horses graze moved again Crosst
                            Blue River at Sunset went one mile my
                                    Lt [Lieutenant] and sick man stopt myself and one man went one
                                    mile further and stopt our man that we had left Came up late at
                                    night.
                        Sunday the 24th a Cloudy and Rainy morning we mooved Earley Came
                            to Corrydon at half past ten. I staid two hours and half took
                                    Breckfast mooved up to Coonrods found my Lt and sick man. Staid
                                    2 hours had my horses fed got some whisky, met one of my
                                    neighbors, mooved again and at 2 oclock got safe Home after a
                                    Campaign of 74 days.
                        JOHN TIPTON.
                     
                  
               
                
            NOTE—Appended to the journal is the following,
                    written in Tipton's hand:
            This Day Book Kept During the Campane in the year 1811 wherein his Excellency
                    Governor Harrison was Commander in Chief and Col. J. B. Boyd of the 4th united
                    States Riegement was Second in Command Everything herein Stated the Subscriber
                    holds himself Ready to make appear to Bee fact from the best information could
                    be Had as it was duly kept By himself.
         
         
         
            A MILITARY CIRCULAR OF 1812.
            [A copy of the following circular, issued by Governor Harrison a few months after
                the battle of Tippecanoe
                , was found a few years since among some papers of John B. Dillon.
                    Mr. Dillon, in his history of Indiana, makes use of extracts from it, but does
                    not publish it in full.—Editor.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        GENERAL ORDERS FOR THE MILITIA.
                        
                           
                              HEADQUARTERS, VINCENNES
                              
                           ,
                                        16th April, 1812.
                        
                        As the late murders upon the frontiers of this and the
                                    neighboring Territories leave us little to hope of our being
                                    able to avoid a war with the neighboring tribes of Indians, the
                                    commander-in-chief directs that the colonels and other
                                    commandants of corps should take immediate measures to put their
                                    commands in the best possible state for active service. The
                                    field officers who command battalions will visit and critically
                                    inspect the several companies which compose them and make a
                                    report in detail of their situation, particularly noting the
                                    deficiencies in arms, ammunition and accoutrements, and such
                                    measures as the laws authorize must be immediately taken to
                                    remedy those deficiencies. The commander-in-chief informs the
                                    officers that the most prompt obedience and the most unremitting
                                    attention to their duty will be required of them—the
                                    situation of the country calls for exertion on the part of the
                                    militia, and the officers must set the example to their men. If
                                    there are amongst them any who have accepted appointments for
                                    the mere motive of gratifying their vanity by the possession of
                                    a commission to which a title is annexed, without having the
                                    ability or the inclination to encounter arduous service, in
                                    justice to their country and to their own fame they should now
                                    retire and not stand in the way of those who are more able or
                                    more willing to encounter the fatigue and dangers incident to
                                    actual service in the Indian war. From the specimen which the
                                    commander-in-chief has had of their conduct in the field he has
                                    every reason to be proud of them, nor does he believe that there
                                    are better militia officers to be found anywhere those of
                                    Indiana, but in a crisis like the present they should be all good.
                        
                        The field officers are to see that proper places are appointed
                                         for the rendezvous of
                                    the companies upon an alarm or the appearance of danger, and
                                    will give orders relatively to the mode of their proceeding in
                                    such exigencies as the situation of the companies respectively
                                    call for. When mischief is done by the Indians in any of the
                                    settlements, they must be pursued, and the officer nearest to
                                    the spot, if the number of men under his command is not inferior
                                    to the supposed number of the enemy, is to commence it as soon
                                    as he can collect his men. If his force should be too small he
                                    is to send for aid to the next officer to him, and in the
                                    meantime take a position capable of being defended, or watch the
                                    motions of the enemy, as circumstances require. The pursuit must
                                    be conducted with vigor, and the officer commanding will be held
                                    responsible for making every exertion in his power to overtake
                                    the enemy. Upon bis return, whether successful or not, a
                                    particular account of his proceedings must be transmitted to the
                                    commander-in-chief and a copy of it to the colonel of the
                                    regiment.
                        The commander-in-chief recommends it to the citizens on the
                                    frontiers of 
                                        Knox county
                                    , from the 
                            Wabash eastwardly across the two branches of the
                            White river, those on the northwest of
                            the 
                            Wabash
                            and those in the Driftwood settlement in Harrison,
                                    to erect blocked houses or picketed forts. It will depend upon
                                    the disposition of the Delawares whether measures of this kind
                                    will be necessary or not upon the frontiers of 
                            
                                Clark
                            , 
                            
                                Jefferson
                            .
                                            
                                                Dearborn,
                            
                                Franklin
                             or 
                                Wayne
                                    . Means will be taken to ascertain this as soon as
                                    possible and the result communicated. The Indians who profess to
                                    be friendly have been warned to keep clear of the settlements,
                                    and the commander-in-chief is far from wishing that the citizens
                                    should run any risk by admitting any Indians to come amongst
                                    them whose designs are in the least equivocal. He recommends,
                                    however, to those settlements which the Delawares have
                                    frequented as much forbearance as possible towards that tribe,
                                    because they have ever performed with punctuality and good faith
                                    their engagements with the 
                            
                                United States
                            , and as yet there is not the least reason to doubt
                                    their fidelity. It is also certain that if they should be forced
                                    to join the other tribes in war, from their intimate knowledge
                                    of the settlements upon the frontiers they would be enabled to
                                    do more mischief than any other tribe.
                        
                                    By the commander-in-chief.
                                     A. HURST, Aid-de-camp.
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
             EARLY 
                 
                     INDIANAPOLIS
                 .
            THE FLETCHER PAPERS—THIRD INSTALMENT.
            
                The First Lawyer in 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    —Brief Sketches of Some Forgotten Men; Obed Foote,
                        Judge W. W. Wick, and Harvey Gregg—An Anecdode of Hiram
                    Brown.
                
            
                From the 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News of May 17, 1879.
                
            Mr. Nowland, Mr. Ignatius Brown and Mr. Holloway credit Calvin Fletcher with
                    being the first lawyer in town. I had thought that this was the fact until
                    recently when I examined my father's journal and letters. In a letter
                    written to a lady friend in 
                
                    Virginia
                 he says: "You may wish to have me make some remarks
                    respecting my professional prospects. We have two attorneys here besides
                    myself—one was here when I came and one has come since." Who
                    this first one was I have no means of knowing to a certainty. The first three
                    who were admitted in the first circuit court, held on September 26, 1822, appear
                    on the record as "Calvin Fletcher, Hiram M. Curry and Obed
                    Foote." If any one preceded my father I am inclined to think it must
                    have been Curry.
             Obed Foote was one of the most remarkable characters that early settled in 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                 . Although a man of kindly heart, he let the gruff side of his
                    nature appear uppermost. That he was a kindly man I know, because he was kindly
                    to children; but for conceited men or men of shams he had no consideration
                    whatever. He blurted out just what he thought of ignoramuses or asses, and he
                    was not merely a man of words—he was ready to give satisfaction
                    physically. Yet he proved himself a just man, with clear ideas of law, occupying
                    as he did until the day of his death (in 1833) the place of the principal
                    justice in 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                 .
            
                    News of May 24.
                
             Judge W. W. Wick came to 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                  from 
                 
                     Whitewater
                 . He had a singular combination in his character.
                    When a young man he had a fine presence. He was at times dignified, and then  again he seemed to care nothing for
                    personal dignity and was, if anything, too familiar. He was eloquent as a
                    lawyer, and yet he sometimes mingled the sublime and the ridiculous in the most
                    preposterous manner. It was said of him that he had in an extraordinary degree
                    the gifts of wisdom and unwisdom, but so curiously mixed them that one often
                    neutralized the other. He was acceptable as a presiding officer, but finally
                    returned to the bar. He entered politics and was representative in Congress from
                    the fifth district, but it can not be said that he was successful as a
                    politician.
             Harvey Gregg came to 
                 Indianapolis
              in December, 1821. He would have been a marked character in any
                    community. A Kentuckian by birth, he had the greatest admiration for English
                    people—for their thoroughness, system and education. He had traveled
                    extensively in 
                        Mexico
                     and Central America, and I recall with the greatest pleasure a day
                    spent at my father's house in which he narrated to us his adventures
                    among the mountains and volcanoes of the tropics. He was full of fun and
                    practical jokes, and many are the anecdotes which a few of our older citizens
                    preserve of him. He was a studious man, and I remember how my child-eyes were
                    filled with astonishment at his library of beautifully-bound books. He had,
                    perhaps, more dry humor and prankishness than any other man of his time in 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                 . As he would saunter from his office down Washington street he generally wore a large white, old-fashioned castor hat,
                    and his coat was a long frock reaching below his knees—a fashion
                    introduced by Charles X of 
                 
                     France
                 , who was bow-legged. He always went humming or singing. If he saw
                    movers passing westward he was sure to hail them, and if, as he judged from the
                    skeleton horses and the ramshackle vehicle, with wheels tied up with hickory
                    withes, they were from 
                 
                     North Carolina
                 , he would begin drawlingly: "Carliner?"
                    "Ya-as," the person questioned would reply, astonished that
                    anybody should know him. The astonishment would give way to a friendly smile as
                    Gregg continued in the "Carliner" tone: "Come from
                    Beard's Hatter Shop, or the three fish traps, or by Dobson's
                    cross roads?" By this time Carliner reckoned that Gregg was from
                    "them parts,"  and felt
                    sure of it when Gregg asked if they had come "through the crab
                    orchard." Gregg had never been in 
                 
                     North Carolina
                 .
            I remember in 1831, when I was eight years of age, I printed with pen and ink Mr.
                    Gregg's name and asked my father to give it to him to paste in his big
                    white hat. About ten days after, to my great surprise, I received from Charles
                    I. Hand, our chief hatter, a castor for me exactly in style as that worn by Mr.
                    Gregg, and accompanying this hat were several foolscap sheets on which were
                    written all the chapters and verses containing the paragraphs [?] of the Bible.
                    These foolscap lessons were to train my memory. He could tell by heart where
                    each paragraph was. With all his waggishness he had a very serious side to his
                    nature. My father said that often when sleeping in the same room with him when
                    on the circuit he would be aroused in the small hours of the night by Gregg
                    speaking to him: "Wake up, Fletcher; wake up! How you sleep! I can not;
                    I have been thinking of the awfulness of eternity." On one occasion, at 
                
                    Danville
                
                , he awoke my father at midnight, saying: "Fletcher, I can
                not sleep, my daughter is dying at 
                
                    Indianapolis
                ." He aroused the landlord, mounted his horse and rode to 
                
                    Indianapolis
                 to find his daughter, a most sweet and attractive child, just dead.
                On March 23, 1833, he was taken seriously ill at 
                
                    Franklin
                , but insisted upon going to 
                
                    Indianapolis
                . The disease affected the head, and after a few days of intense
                    suffering he passed away, on the 3d of April, in a state of unconsciousness, and
                    was two days afterwards buried by the side of his beloved daughter, in out-lot
                    No. 4, on Walnut street, known to old citizens as the Frazer property. [Gregg
                    was one of the founders of the "Western Censor and Emigrant's
                    Guide," the second paper in 
                
                    Indianapolis
                
                .]
            
                    News of August 25.
                
            I often heard my father narrate a circumstance which occurred in the early days
                    of circuit riding. Judge Wick, William Quarles, Hiram Brown and my father, when
                    riding to court to be held at 
                
                    Danville
                , had reached the last cabin on the road at a late hour in the
                    afternoon. Heavy clouds threatened rain; the air was cold and raw; the road a
                    mere path through the dense beech woods. Wick and Quarles proposed to stay at
                    the house, but Mr. 
                    Brown and my father, by way of trying Quarles, who had disgusted them
                    with his boastings, dashed on, and the others followed, Quarles with muttered
                    curses. Night rapidly overtook them, a cold rain saturated everything, and in
                    the Egyptian blackness of the forest they became hopelessly lost. Quarles, after
                    exhausting his supply of oaths, became silent through sheer inability to do
                    anything like justice to the subject. All secured their horses and prepared to
                    bivouack for the night. Brown, who had no blanket, found Quarles' upon the ground and
                    seized upon it. Missing his blanket, Quarles charged first my father and then
                    Wick with the abstraction, and then attacked Brown, who, aroused with some difficulty from a deep and sudden slumber,
                    calmly admitted the possession of a blanket found by him in the wilderness
                    without an owner, and until a claimant appeared with a better title than
                    himself—which, in the absence of all light on the subject could not
                    possibly happen before morning—he certainly should keep and enjoy the
                    good the gods had provided. Judge Wick and my father gravely assented to Brown's right in the matter, to the intense wrath of Quarles,
                    who bitterly denounced the whole company as a pack of blank thieves, and
                    threatened the most grievous consequences to Brown if the blanket was not at once turned over. One of the party now
                    professed to be convinced of Quarles' rights and urged him to immediate
                    and vigorous measures. Throughout the oaths and threats of Quarles could be
                    heard the bland sentences of Brown: "Colonel Quarles, self-preservation is the first law of
                    nature. A wife and small children depend upon me for support while you are a
                    bachelor and no one cares whether you live or die. My death would be a loss to
                    the community while yours would be unnoticed or, perhaps, regarded as a
                    benefit," etc. This was kept up until consciousness left all the party
                    except Quarles, who sat all night, wet and wretched, at the foot of a tree.
            [Here ends our reprint of this, series. For the fuller text the reader is
                    referred to the 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News. Dates complete are given in this magazine, Vol. II,
                    No. 1, p. 29.]
         
         
         
            THE EARLY SCHOOLS OF INDIANA.
            FROM PAPERS OF D. D. BANTA—FOURTH INSTALMENT.
            
                    "Barring Out"; The Tables Turned on the Autocrat
                        of the Rod—Instances of a Rude Custom Once General.
                
            Among the school customs of early days which have entirely disappeared was that
                    described as "turning out" or "barring out"
                    the teacher—a sport that was never indulged in in Indiana at any
                    other than Christmas time.
            The ostensible object in barring out a teacher was to compel him to treat his
                    school. It was a sort of legalized rebellion of the scholars against the
                    master's authority, accompanied by a forced levy with which to purchase
                    the particular article that was to compose the treat, or else to furnish the
                    treat outright himself. Usually the deposed monarch furnished the money and the
                    rebels bought the treat."
            The "treat" here in Indiana, as far as I have seen, always
                consisted of something to eat or drink. In western 
                    Pennsylvania
                , according to Breckinridge's "Recollections of
                    the West," the object was to compel a vacation. In all cases the
                    barring out was made the occasion of more or less revelry and disorder.
                    According to a statement made in the "Life of Thomas Jefferson
                    Fisher," a 
                
                    Kentucky
                 preacher, barring out was observed "on the first holiday
                    that came, or at the end of the session," I find no evidence of its
                    observance in this State at the end of the session, although some teachers were
                    in the habit of making presents to their scholars at that time. Such presents
                    were always voluntarily made, however, and as far as my observations went,
                    always consisted of something else than articles of food or drink.
            I find but two instances recorded of the use of whisky in this State with which
                to treat the school. One of these was in a school in 
                
                    Jefferson county
                , and the other in 
                
                    Morgan
                . The episode in the last-named county is
                    reported to have occurred at Christmas  of
                    the cold winter of 1825-'26. When the teacher reached the schoolhouse
                    on that extraordinarily cold morning he found the door barred and all the big
                    boys inside. Of course the pedagogue wanted in, but the boys declared that it
                    would take a "treat" to open the door that morning.
                    Accordingly, Mr. Conduitt, the teacher, went to the nearest
                    "grocery" and purchased about a gallon of whisky, with which
                    he returned and again applied for admittance. The door was at once unbarred and
                    the man with the jug admitted, whereupon a season of "high
                    jinks" followed. The master dealt out the liquor liberally, it would
                    seem, for some of the boys, becoming "too full for utterance,"
                    had to be "sent home in disgrace." One of these boys, it is
                    recorded, "went home swaggering, happy as a lark, loaded to the muzzle
                    with a ceaseless fire of talk, but his father quietly took down the big gad and
                    gave the boy a dressing that he remembers to the present."
            The following account of a "turning out" will prove of interest
                    in this connection. It occurred in 
                        Nashville
                    , in this State. "The custom," says the
                    historian," "was so universal that the scholars demanded their
                    right to it, and were upheld by their parents. Christmas came, and Mr. Gould was
                    informed that he must treat. The scholars refused to come to order when called
                    and the teacher refused to treat. After a short time the larger boys forcibly
                    captured the teacher, bound him hand and foot, and carried him down to Greasy
                    creek to be severely ducked in cold water unless he surrendered and treated.
                    Several men of the town accompanied this novel expedition. The stubborn teacher
                    was carried out into the stream by the larger boys, who took off their shoes and
                    rolled up their pants and waded out. A parley was held, but the teacher was
                    obstinate and was on the point of being unceremoniously baptised, when W. S.
                    Roberts interceded, and after some sharp words, pro and con, secured from the
                    teacher the promise to treat on candy and apples. He was then released, and the
                    cavalcade marched up to the store, where all were given a taste of the
                    above-named delicacies.
            Stubborn teachers did not always come out as well as did this 
                Brown county
                     man. The school boys of a certain district in 
                        Posey county
                    , having determined to compel their teacher to treat, "upon
                    his refusal he was promptly sat upon by the boys, who  soon overcame him and carried him down to the creek
                    and broke the ice. The alternative was once more given him, but he was stubborn
                    and held out. Without ceremony he was plunged beneath the icy water, and, yet
                    holding out, his tormenters placed chunks of ice on his bare bosom, and but for
                    the arrival of outsiders who rescued him, serious consequences would doubtless
                    have been the result." It is more than probable in this case that the
                    victim had been a hard master, and his pupils took advantage of their
                    opportunity to get revenge. Jacob Powers, a 
                        Hancock county
                     teacher, fared worse. He had recently had a tooth extracted, and,
                    despite his warning as to the risk, was plunged in the cold waters of a creek.
                    The result was lock-jaw, from which he died.
            While the teachers, as a general rule, resisted the demand to their uttermost,
                    there were others, however, who fell in with the humor of the occasion and found
                    as much fun in it as the boys themselves. Indeed, if the teacher resisted in
                    good earnest, even to the point of being ducked in the ice-cold water, he was,
                    nevertheless, "expected to forgive his enemies," and I do not
                    remember to have come across an instance of a teacher ever being accused of
                    subsequently holding malice against any one who had wronged him in a Christmas
                    frolic.
            It must be said that those teachers who looked on the bright side of the custom,
                    and gave in after a brief show of resistance, usually came out the best. On one
                    occasion the big boys of one William Surface's school barred the school
                    door against him. On reaching the schoolhouse he was, of course, refused
                    entrance except on the usual condition. But the teacher declined answering their
                    oral demands, because he said, "some dispute might arise as to what was
                    said." If they had terms to propose they must present them in writing.
                    This seemed reasonable, and so the boys put their demand on paper, which,
                    together with pen and ink, was handed to the diplomat on the outside. Beneath
                    the boys' scrawl he wrote, "I except to the above
                    proposition—William Surface," and passed the writing back.
                    The boys were satisfied, and at once opened the door. "You had better
                    read with care what I have written," said the master to the scholars,
                    when safe within. "It is one thing to accept a proposition and quite
                    another to except to it." The boys, now crestfallen, acknowledged  their mistake, but the teacher, after
                    "improving the occasion by warning them against the evil of
                    carelessness in the business transactions of life," generously treated,
                    and was thereafter loved better than ever before.
             A teacher by the name of Groves, who taught in a district close up to the 
                 
                     Marion county
                  line, found himself barred out one Christmas morning. Living in
                    "the schoolmaster's cabin" hard by, he called in his
                    wife to assist him. The weather was extremely cold, and it occurred to him that
                    if he could drown out the fire he could freeze out the rebellion, and so,
                    ascending the roof to the top of the chimney, his wife handed up buckets of
                    water, which he poured down on the school fire. But it was all in vain. The
                    boys, raking the coals out upon the broad hearth, defied him. His next thought
                    was to smoke them out, and to that end he laid boards over the chimney top. But
                    the boys had thought of that and provided themselves with a long pole with which
                    to remove the boards. Not to be outdone, Groves replaced the boards over the
                    chimney and calling upon his wife, who seems to have entered with spirit into
                    all his plans, she gallantly mounted to the comb of the roof and took her seat
                    on the boards to hold them down while her husband stationed himself at the door
                    below. But the boys tried the pole again, and with such vigor that they
                    overthrew the master's dame, who, at the risk of her life and limb,
                    came tumbling to the ground. Picking herself up, she retired to her own
                    domicile, leaving her lord to fight the battle out as best he could. As the
                    girls and smaller children arrived he sent them to his own cabin, where his wife
                    agreed to keep watch and ward over them. One by one the garrison became captive
                    to the vigilant master, who stood guard at the door, and was sent to the other
                    house. By the time for dismissing in the afternoon every rebellious boy had been
                    taken in and the school was in full blast in the master's cabin.
            [End of series. For guide to full text see Vol. II, No. 1, p. 41.]
         
         
         
            GENERAL LAFAYETTE IN INDIANA.
             [From Paper by Capt. L. C. Baird, prepared for the 
                 Clark County
             
                 Historical Society.]
             [Lafayette's visit to 
                 
                     America
                 
                 in 1824-'25 was a series of
                    ovations in which the cities of the nation along the route of his tour vied with
                    each other in doing honor to the patriot. His trip westward by the
                 Ohio river
                 brought the southern border of Indiana
                    within his circuit. Some months before this western trip the Indiana
                    legislature, in anticipation, passed elaborate resolutions expressive of
                    cordiality and hospitality, and on his arrival at 
                        Louisville
                    , in May, 1825, a committee waited upon him with official
                    congratulations and an invitation to Indiana soil. The distinguished visitor
                    accepted the proffered hospitality and the next day, May 11, he was a guest at 
                 
                     Jeffersonville
                 . Captain Baird's paper in its entirety is too long for our
                    limited space, but so much of it as deals directly with the reception we here
                    print.—Editor.]
            AT 11 o'clock A. M. on Thursday the committee (Messrs. Farnham,
                    Gwathmey, Merriwether, Beach and Burnett) waited upon General Lafayette on board
                    the steamboat General Pike, to which he was escorted by the Committee of
                    Arrangements and Marshals of 
                
                    Louisville
                 and 
                
                    Jefferson county
                . The General was greeted on the Indiana shore by a salute of thrice
                    twenty-four guns, discharged from three pieces of artillery, stationed on the
                    river bank beside three flagstaffs, each seventy feet in height, bearing flags
                    with appropriate mottos. He was received by General Marston G. Clark, of 
                
                    Jeffersonville
                , and General John Carr, of 
                
                    Charlestown
                , Marshal of the Day, and escorted by a detachment of three
                    artillery companies, commanded by Captains Lemon, Melford and Booth, to the
                    pleasant mansion house of the late Governor Posey on the west corner of Front
                    and Fort streets overlooking the river and the city of 
                
                    Louisville
                 beyond. His progress down Front street from the place of
                    debarkation near the present Ferry landing was a spectacle the like of which the
                    city had never seen before. Officials, both State and local, together with many
                    other men of State and national renown from our sister common wealths, vied with
                    the vast concourse of the "common people" to add to the
                    generous expression of gratitude and esteem for the guest of honor.  Besides the many visitors from throughout the
                    State, the people from the surrounding country had made this a holiday that all
                    might be given an opportunity to participate in the reception. In addition to
                    the three artillery companies and Captain Parker's infantry company
                    from 
                
                    Charlestown
                , there were other military organizations present, but the absence
                    of any records concerning the Indiana militia at this period of our history, and
                    in fact for many years afterward, makes it impossible to discover who they were
                    or whence they came.
            The guest was met at the Posey mansion by his excellency, Governor James B. Ray,
                    who delivered an address of welcome, and to this he made a brief and fitting
                    response. These speeches were exchanged out of doors, and while the General was
                    still speaking the long-threatened rain began to fall, and his remarks had to be
                    finished while standing under the shelter of an umbrella proudly held by Mr.
                    Charles Applegate, one of the older citizens present.
            The General was then conducted to chambers, provided with refreshments, and
                    presented to a numerous company of ladies assembled to welcome him and to
                    several hundreds of citizens, including a few venerable relics of the
                    "times that tried men's souls."
            Among the old residents of the city who were presented at the reception was
                    Solomon Burritt. He lived and died in the small brick house on lower Market
                    street about opposite the end of Clark street. During the war of the Revolution
                    he served under Lafayette, and when it came Burritt's time to be presented to his
                    old commanding officer, they fell into each other's arms and kissed and
                    shed tears of joy and comradeship.
            One incident occurred during the reception that served to relieve the proceedings
                of any stiffness which might have appeared. Captain John C. Parker, of 
                
                    Charlestown
                
                , had brought his militia company down to 
                    Jeffersonville
                 to form part of the large military escort. During the presentation
                    he took several of his men up to be introduced. One strapping young miltiaman
                    stepped forward to shake the General's hand and politely raised his
                    hat, when out fell several large crackers which he had thoughtfully provided for
                    a lunch. The General adroitly relieved him of his  embarrassment and mortification by congratulating
                    him as a good soldier who carried his rations with him.
            At three o'clock in the afternoon Lafayette was conducted to dinner under a military escort accompanied by a
                    band of music. The table was handsomely prepared under an arbor, about 220 feet
                    in length, well covered and ornamented throughout with the verdure and foliage
                    of the forests, among which roses and other flowers were tastefully interwoven
                    by the ladies of 
                        Jefferson-ville
                    . This table was set in the woods just above the
                    Governor's house, about 100 feet above Fort street, and in constructing
                    the arbor or covering, as was usual at that day on such occasions, the branches
                    of the surrounding beech trees were used. Mr. Burdette C. Pile, later Mayor of 
                
                    Jeffersonville
                , then a young man and the owner of a fine yoke of oxen, used his ox
                    rig in transporting the brush from the near woodlands to the scene of festivity,
                    an incident which he was proud of relating to the day of his death.
            At the head of the table was hung a transparent painting on which was inscribed,
                    "Indiana welcomes Lafayette, the champion of liberty in both hemispheres," over which
                    was a flag bearing the arms of the 
                
                    United States
                
                . At the foot of the table was a similar painting with the following
                    inscription: "Indiana—in 1776 a wilderness; in 1825 a
                    civilized community. Thanks to Lafayette and the soldiers of the Revolution." The company was
                    honored by the presence of many distinguished gentlemen from 
                
                    Kentucky
                , 
                
                    Tennessee
                
                , and other States, among whom were, Governor Carroll and suite,
                    Hon. C. A. Wickliffe, Judges Barry and Bledsoe, Attorney General Sharp, Colonel
                    Anderson, the Honorable John Rowan, with the Committee of Arrangements of 
                
                    Louisville
                 and 
                
                    Jefferson county
                
                , Major Wash, Mr. Neilson, etc.
            The dinner was followed by a long list of toasts which continued until six
                    o'clock, at which hour Lafayette left the table and was re-escorted to the General Pike. Here the
                    committee of arrangements from 
                
                    Kentuky
                 resumed the honor of their special
                    attendance, in which they were joined by the Governor of Indiana and suite, the
                    Marshals, and the Indiana committee of arrangements, who accompanied the guest
                    to 
                        Louisville
                    .
         
         
         
            A FAMOUS CAMPAIGN SONG.
            [For the now-forgotten music of this most famous of the old campaign songs of
                1840 we are indebted to Messrs. Alva O. Reser and J. S. Bergen, of 
                
                    Lafayette
                 
                . The former found a venerable inmate of the Soldiers'
                Home, near 
                
                    Lafayette
                 
                , who remembered the air, and from his rendition of it the
                    notes were secured and the song reproduced on a phonograph record. From this
                    record the music was kindly re-written for this magazine by Professor Bergen. It
                    is, perhaps, superfluous to explain that the "Tippe-canoe" of
                    the song was W. H. Harrison, the hero of Tippecanoe battle, who in 1840 was the presidential candidate, and that
                    "little Van" was the opposing candidate, Martin Van Buren. The
                    "hard cider" campaign, unique in its character, was one of
                    frolic and songs, and this song, with others, was roared by untold thousands of
                    Whigs from one end of the country to the other.—Editor
            
            TIPPECANOE AND TYLER TOO.
            
               
                        What has caused this great com - mo - tion
                    
               
                        mo-tion, mo-tion, Our country through It
                    
               
                        is the ball a-roll-ing on, For Tip - pe - ca
                    
               
                        noe and Ty-ler too. Tip - pe - ca noe and
                    
               
                        Tyler too. And with them we'll beat
                    
               
                        lit-tle Van,
                                    Van, Van is a used up
                            man;
                    
               
                        And with then we'll beat little Van.
                    
            
            
            
                    Like the rushing of mighty waters, waters, waters, On it will go, And in its
                        course will clear the way For Tippecanoe and Tyler too, And with them we'll beat little
                                Van, Van! Van is a used-up man; And with them we"ll beat little Van!
                    Don't you hear from every quarter, quarter, quarter, Good news and
                        true— That swift the ball is rolling on for Tippecanoe, etc.
                    Now you hear the Vanjacks whispering, whispering, whispering, Things look
                        quite blue, For all the world seems turning round for Tippecanoe, etc.
                    Let them talk about hard cider, cider, cider, Log cabins too; 'Twill
                        only help to speed the ball for Tippecanoe, etc.
                    Little Matty's days are numbered, numbered, numbered, Out he must
                        go, And in the chair we'll put the good old Tippecanoe, etc.
                    Who, then, shall we send to Congress, Congress, Congress? Who, tell me who?
                        Why, honest freemen, sound, true friends of Tippecanoe, etc.
                    And when they get there, I can tell you, tell you, tell you, What they will
                        do— They'll make good laws and have them sealed with Tippecanoe, etc.
                
         
         
         
            EDITORIAL AND MISCELLANEOUS.
            ERRORS CORRECTED.
            An article on John D. Defrees in our last issue was there accredited to Mr. Berry
                    Sulgrove as the author. This we inferred, and the inference was reasonable from
                    the material in our possession, but it was an error. The article from which we
                    drew, anonymously published at the time of Mr. Defrees' death, was
                    written by Mr. Morris Ross, of the 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         News. The date of Mr. Defrees' death, given as
                    1892, should have read 1882. This simply was a typographical error that escaped
                    in the proof reading. Our attenion is called, also, to a sentence in the article
                    on "Early Newspapers" which seems to question the date of
                    founding of the 
                        
                            Richmond
                         Palladium. We did not mean to discredit the claim that it
                    was founded in 1831, but the claim that it was the oldest now existing in the
                    State, barring the 
                        
                            Vincennes
                         Sun. Others claim dates earlier than 1831.
             
                 
                     LAPORTE COUNTY
                  HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
             Mr. R. B. Oglesbee, of Laporte, Ind., writes:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        "By the formation in January, 1906, of the 
                            
                                Laporte County
                             Historical Society there is one more to
                                    add to your list of local historical associations in this State.
                                    We are holding interesting monthly meetings and a good
                                    collection of local historical matter is being
                                    accumulated."
                     
                  
               
                
            REVOLUTIONARY SOLDIERS.
            The above correspondent also supplies us with the names of several Revolutionary
                soldiers buried in 
                
                    Laporte county
                . These are: Hezekiah Smith, 
                
                    Door Village
                ; Clark Burlingame, 
                
                    Door Village
                ; Henry Van Dalsem, Kankakee township; Abijah Bige-low, 
                
                    Michigan City
                ; Simon Wheeler, Law's cemetery, Cool Spring township.
            
            We are in receipt of two anonymous communications, one, and probably both of
                which, come from the 
                
                    Lafayette
                 
                Post of the D. A. R. These, covering the same ground, state that
                    Nathaniel Richmond, father of Dr. John L. Richmond, one of the pioneer
                    physicians of 
                
                    Indianapolis
                
                , is buried in a private family graveyard on his own farm at 
                
                    Pendleton
                
                , Ind. He was born in 
                    Taunton
                , 
                
                    Mass.
                , in 1760; enlisted at the age of fifteen or sixteen, and
                served in the 2d 
                    Massachusetts
                 Volunteers. He married Susannah Lambert. After the war he moved to 
                    Chesterfield
                , 
                
                    Mass.
                , and later to 
                
                    Herkimer
                , 
                
                    N.Y.
                , finally coming to the new
                State of Indiana, where he took up land at 
                
                    Pendleton
                . He died Sept. 1, 1829. His discharge from the army was signed by
                    George Washington, 1783. Another son was Rev. Nathaniel Richmond, and a grandson
                    was Dr. Corydon Richmond, surgeon from Indiana in the Civil war, who recently
                    died at 
                        Kokomo
                    , Ind., at the age of ninety-eight years.
            LOCAL HISTORY CONTRIBUTIONS.
            
                William Wells, Indian Captive.—In the 
                
                    Fort Wayne
                
                    Journal Gazette for August 12, 1906, Frank Dildine tells the
                    romantic story of William Wells who, taken captive by the Indians when a small
                    boy, was reared among the Miamis. He and the famous Little Turtle grew up
                    together as close friends; he married the sister of Little Turtle, and when the
                    latter became chief he made his friend his trusted lieutenant in the warfare
                    with the whites preceding Wayne's campaign. Before Wayne's incursion Wells went
                    back to his people in 
                
                    Kentucky
                , parting amicably with his foster brethren, and he joined the
                    expedition against them that resulted in their subjugation. After the treaty of
                    Greenville he remained at 
                
                    Fort Wayne
                , resuming relations with his Indian family and their people. He was
                    massacred by hostile Indians near Fort Dearborn, in 1812. A letter describing the affair, written by one of
                    Wells' companions and but recently made public, is published in Mr.
                    Dildine's article.
            
               The Betrayal of Ensign Holmes.—The above writer in
                    the same publication, date July 22, 1906, narrates another romance of Indian
                    life—that of ensign Holmes, the young English officer in command of
                    Fort Miami (where 
                
                    Fort Wayne
                 stands) in 1763,  and who was
                    decoyed to his death and his garrison captured through the agency of his Indian
                    mistress. The story in its substance is not new, but Mr. Dildine dwells upon it
                    more circumstantially than preceding historians, one of his sources of
                    information being an aged resident of 
                
                    Fort Wayne
                , Mrs. Laura Suttenfield, who saw and talked to the Indian woman in
                    the case, when the latter was very old. She disclaimed being a guilty party to
                    the plot and implied that she had been avenged on the slayers of her lover.
            HISTORICAL INTEREST IN 
                WHITLEY COUNTY
                    .
             An intended notice of the historical interest manifested in 
                 
                     Whitley county
                  was crowded out of our last issue. This interest expresses itself
                    in an annual "Old Settlers' Day" in which the county
                    at large seems to participate. The occasion in 1905 drew together something like
                    6000 people, and while the meeting last summer (Aug. 16) was not so large, the
                    county seat, 
                        Columbia City
                    , was given over to it. One feature was the presence, as guests of
                    honor, of the granddaughter and great-grandson of the famous Miami Indian,
                    Little Turtle. The former, Mrs. Anthony Revarre, is now ninety-six years old,
                    and she and her son Anthony Revarre, respectively named, in their own language,
                    "Kil-so-quah" and "White Loon," belong to
                    the few lingering representatives of an almost vanished race, and their
                    neighbors of the succeeding race have done well to honor them. Kilsoquah, it is
                    affirmed, is the last full-blood Miami Indian in the State, all others having a
                    strain of Caucasian blood.
             The interest in this direction among the 
                 
                     Whitley county
                  people was still more strikingly exemplified the past summer by a
                    company of more than one hundred devoting a day and going in a body on an
                    exploring expedition to establish, if possible, certain land marks, and verify
                    certain traditions of Indian times in a region rich with Indian history. This,
                    we understand, was in the interest of a history of 
                 
                     Whitley county
                  now in course of preparation. Space permitting, we would be glad to
                    reprint the local account of this expedition, but we can only note and call
                    attention to the very commendable spirit in 
                 
                     Whitley county
                 , which we trust will "grow by what it feeds
                    upon."
         
         
         
            NEWSPAPER INDEX.
            INDIANA JOURNAL—SECOND INSTALMENT.
            
               1828—
            
               Bad roads and mails.—Jan. 3.
               Art: First portrait painter (R. Terrell).—March 27.
                Paper mill at 
                    
                        Madison
                    .—May 8.
               
                   White river
                   , navigability of.—May 15
               Indians, treaty with "Thornton band."—June 5.
               Library movement.—June 12. (Also July 3).
               Roads and highways (series, beginning)—June 12.
               Abel C. Pepper, sketch of.—July 17.
               Canals (series, beginning)—Aug. 28
                Emigration to 
                    
                        Wabash county
                    .—Oct. 2.
               Fire company, first.—Oct. 23.
               Bible society; annual report.—Nov. 20.
               Governor James B. Ray, inaugural speech.—Dec. 13.
               Temperance Society (ad.)—Dec. 17.
                Agent of State for 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    , report of.—Dec. 20.
            
            
               1829—
            
               State House, proposed location of (communication).—Jan. 21.
               Sunday mails.—Feb. 12.
                Nomenclature: 
                    
                        Lafayette
                      and Indian names of several streams.—March 5.
               Grape culture.—April 16.
               Indian lands, disposition of, etc.—April 16.
                Sabbath schools in 
                    
                        Marion county
                    .—May 14.
                "Message" to the "
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     legislature."—May 21.
               Tract Society, report of.—May 21.
               Fourth of July, Sabbath school celebration and address by Jas.
                        Morrison.—July 9.
               Sale of pews (ad.)—July 9.
               Astronomy: "Anti-Newtonian" system; lecture by John
                        Richardson, endorsed by James B. Ray and W. W. Wick.—July 30.
               Female school; terms per quarter.—July 30.
               
               
                  Cumberland (National) Road; advertisement for proposals, with names of
                        those who had not relinquished land.—Sept. 3. (Much discussion of
                        this road about this time.)
               
                   
                       Logansport
                   
                   , description of, and first newspaper.—Sept. 10.
               Immigration to New Purchase (ed.)—Sept. 17.
               Temperance Society.—Dec. 3. (Also Dec. 8.)
               
                   Tippecanoe Battleground, contemplated sale of.—Dec. 3.
            
            
               1830—
            
               Indian affairs; address by Milton Stapp.—Feb. 17.
               Indian affairs; address by—Graham (Subject: Extending the laws
                        of the State over the Indian tribes.)—Feb. 24.
                "
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     Legislature," oration by Samuel
                        Merrill.—March 3.
                "
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     Legislature."—Feb. 17.
               Bible Society, address before by Dr. Coe.—May 12.
               Indians, removal of and cost to States.—July 7.
               First menagerie, advertising the "kinkajou,"
                        etc.—July 21.
               "Grand menagerie," with a
                        "rompo."—Aug. 18.
               Colonization Society.—Sept. 1. (Also Sept. 8).
               Immigration.—Sept. 8.
               James B. Ray, communication from, with punctuation, etc., as it left the
                        writer's hand; literary curiosity.—Sept. 22.
               
                   Tippecanoe
                   Battleground, re-interring of dead.—Sept. 29. (Also
                        Nov. 3.)
               Indiana Historical Society.—Dec. 15. (Also Dec. 25.)
               Sales of lots for a number of new towns advertised this year.
            
            
               1831—
            
                Sale of 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     lots by lottery (ad.)—Jan. 1.
               Colonization Society.—Jan. 26.
               Medical Society.—Jan. 26.
                Portrait painter at 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     (ad.)—Feb. 2.
               Wild Man: good story.—Feb. 5.
                "
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     Legislature."—March 12.
               James Noble, death of.—March 12. (Also March 19).
               
                   White River
                   , navigation of.—March 26.
                        (Arrival of steamboat, "General Hanna.")
               Donation land, sale of.—April 30.
               Noah Noble, circular announcing candidacy for Governor's
                        office.—May 7.
               
               State House, plans advertised for.—May 21.
               Literary Society.—June 4.
               National Road bridge, bids advertised for.—June 11.
               Ray, James B., letter from.—June 18.
               
                  Cumberland Road, proposals for (ad.)—June 18.
               
                  Cumberland Road, sale of lots advertised.—June 18.
               Ryland T. Brown, oration by.—July 23.
               
                  Michigan Road lands, sale of (ad.)—July 23.
               Soda fountain, first.—July 23.
               National Road bridge, letting of contract.—Aug. 6.
               Court House square, enclosing of.—Sept. 17.
               Market House, ad. for meeting to consider.—Sept. 24.
               Temperance Society.—Oct. 15
               Historical Society.—Dec. 14.
               
                  Michigan Road lands, sale of.—Aug. 13.
               State House, plans submitted for (ed.)—Dec. 31.
            
            
               1832—
            
               Canal Bill.—Jan. 11.
               Canal Bill, debate on.—Jan. 18.
               State House.—Feb. 25.
               Railroad meeting.—March 10.
                Lyceum of 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    .—March 17.
               Market House meeting.—March 24.
               Lyceum.—April 7.
               Market House.—April 7.
               Lyceum.—May 26.
               Indian War, rumor of (Black Hawk.)—June 3.
               Indian scare, call for Indiana company.—June 9.
               Indian War.—June 16, June 23.
               Colonization Society.—June 23.
               Indian War.—June 30.
               
                  Michigan Road.—June 30.
               Indian War, return of soldiers.—July 7.
               Market House, finished.—Aug. 11.
               Canal lands, sale of.—Sept. 1.
               
                   
                       Wabash
                   , improvement of.—Sept. 8, Sept. 15, Sept. 22.
               
                  Cumberland Road.—Oct. 6.
            
            
            
               1833—
            
               
                   
                       Indianapolis
                   
                   Legislature.—Jan. 2.
               Colonization Society, address,—Jan. 5, Jan, 12.
                "
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Legislature."—Feb, 16.
               
                   Wabash Canal.—April 6.
               Drowning of McPherson by Van Blaricum (first homicide.)— May
                        11.
               Remarkable girl (medium.)—May 25.
               Colonization Society.—June 22.
               
                   Wabash Canal.—July 13.
               Thompson, R. W., 4th of July Oration.—July 20.
               
                  Michigan Road (ad.)—Aug. 10.
               Books, list of sold (ad.)—Aug. 10.
               Star shower.—Nov. 16.
               "New Novels" (ad.)—Nov. 23.
               Far West, village of (ad.)—Dec. 14.
               
                   Wabash Canal.—Dec. 21.
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
