
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 1, Issue 1, pages 1-58. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:1+issue:1+year:1905&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
        
        
            
            
                Our Reasons for Being.
                BY way of introducing this magazine and justifying its existence we cannot, perhaps, do better than
                    repeat, in substance, what was said in a Prospectus recently issued by us.
                That the historical material of Indiana has never been adequately preserved and rendered accessible
                    is a fact patent to all who have occasion to deal with such material. The dereliction of the State
                    itself in the earlier days in caring even for its official documents exemplifies a neglect that has
                    been general. By way of illustration, on the old statute books stand laws that require the
                    preservation in the State Library of a number of copies of the general and local laws, and of the
                    Senate, House and Documentary Journals; that require the careful indexing of the Documentary
                    Journals; that require the alphabetical arrangement and binding into volumes of bills, petitions and
                    other legislative papers. No efforts seem to have been made until later years to obey any of these
                    statutory requirements, and so far as the culpable neglect has been rectified it was by the
                    collections and clerical efforts of recent librarians. Even with these efforts complete sets of our
                    State documents have not been secured, and much other matter of value has passed away beyond
                        recovery.
                        Early Neglect of Documentary Material
                    
                
                Much material not within the jurisdiction of the State has also passed away and is daily passing. Old
                    men who have had a part in the history of the commonwealth die, and with them is going the last
                    dwindling remnant of first-hand knowledge of the phases of life that have been; they leave papers,
                    journals and various documents of interest, and these, descending to indifferent heirs, become
                    irretrievably lost. To gather from surviving pioneers their testimonies, and to save from oblivion
                    documents still accessible is a thing to be desired.
                        Present Preventable Losses.
                    
                
                An interest in these things in this State sufficient to support a magazine of local history is only a
                    matter of time. Such interest is not a sporadic one but a natural growth. Already something like a
                    score of States are represented by as many periodical historical 
                    publications, a number of them quarterly magazines, devoted to the preservation of local material.
                    Some of these, such as 
                        Michigan
                    , 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 
                        Iowa
                    , 
                        Minnesota
                    , are younger States than ours with, perhaps, less history to record. Most of the
                    publications mentioned have back of them the Historical Societies of their several States. We,
                    unfortunately can look to no central organization for such support, but local societies are
                    springing up in a number of counties, and if these will evince an interest proportionate to the
                    service we can render them they can go far toward making our publication a success.
                        Awakening Interest in Other States.
                    
                
                To the members of these societies and to others who think an interest in our past worth promoting as
                    of value to the present, then, we make an appeal. We have launched the magazine at a venture and at
                    some sacrifice in the faith that if we can make a worthy showing the support will be forthcoming. It
                    is not our disposition to resort to any foisting or booming method. We assume that the class we
                    desire and hope to reach will take our effort exactly at its worth, and that if every page we
                    present to them is full of matter that justifies itself no better advertisement will be needed. For
                    the first year, if need be, we are willing to make no account of managerial and editorial labors if
                    the actual cost of publishing, distributing and associated expenses are covered.
                This, of course, is experimental and is by no means the limit of our hope. If our success justifies
                    it we shall certainly expand our scheme. One feature much to be desired, but prohibited in the start
                    by cost, is the reproduction of old maps and cuts of interest, many of which exist but are lost to
                    all but the delver.
                The publication will be strictly what it purports to be at the start—a magazine devoted to the
                    preservation and collating of matter that is of real value to the historical student. There will be
                    no space given to advertising "writeings," and no cheap padding. Of matter within its legitimate
                    field there is an abundance, and outside of this field it will make no bid for popular favor.
                        Character and S$$ of Publication.
                    
                
                Its intended scope (subject to extension, as may seem advisable) is—
                
                    The seeking out and publishing of hitherto unprinted documents that have an historical value.
                    The re-printing of valuable and interesting matter that is buried away and practically lost in
                        old newspaper files. Of this  there is much that is wholly
                        forgotten, and, owing to the absence of any guide, to be found only after long and patient
                        research.
                    The conducting of a department of bibliography of historical material now scattered through
                        periodicals and local histories, and of an indexing system that shall comprehend all important
                        official publications besides other matter of interest. We believe that this will at once
                        commend itself to all who have had occasion to search out obscure information.
                    The binding together into a co-operative system (and this is one of the important and hopeful
                        objects) the various local historical societies in the State, as well as the encouraging and
                        promoting of other such societies. The needful thing in 
                            Indiana
                         today, in this direction, is the historical "atmosphere," that shall stimulate work
                        all along the line and inspire the student in history with a sense of the usefulness of such
                        study. This once existing there is no reason why much should not be accomplished, and it is to
                        those who have already started societies and otherwise manifested an interest that we must look
                        for the creation of such an atmosphere by the uniting of their efforts.
                    The publication of original studies in 
                            Indiana
                         history by careful and trustworthy students. Some of the best history work being
                        done at present is intensive, dealing with special aspects and of limited compass, but, by a
                        corresponding thoroughness, particularly illustrative of great principles. Of work of this
                        character we can secure enough to add a desirable feature to our plan.
                    The promoting of history work, particularly State and local history, among teachers and in the
                        schools. On this point we wish to be distinctly understood. The habit of "working" the schools
                        as a lucrative field with many and various private enterprises is an evil conspicuous, we
                        presume, to most school officials, and obvious to us. We have no intention of attempting to
                        persuade teachers and trustees as to their needs—they themselves should know their needs better
                        than we do—but this we have in mind: the interest in home history is making way in the schools;
                        in the development of this interest and the directing of it to the most useful ends help and
                        co-operation not available hitherto will surely be a need. Such help and co-operation we are
                        ready to extend to the best of our ability.
                
                To sum up, we feel quite satisfied that we can carry out acceptably and well our proposed venture if
                    our friends encourage it, and we hope to receive this encouragement.
            
            
            
                John Brown Dillon
                The Father of Indiana History
                IT is eminently fitting that we should begin this magazine with a sketch of the man who not only
                    ranks as Indiana's first and best historian, but whose ideals, methods, character and accomplishment
                    we deem worthy to keep continually in mind as a model to follow in historical work.
                John B. Dillon may fairly be called "the father of Indiana history," for he was the first to enter
                    that field with any seriousness of purpose, and his contributions exceed in value any that have come
                    after. His real merit is best appreciated by those who seek historic truth and accuracy—who want
                    facts authenticated by the evidences of thorough, conscientious research, and who like the same told
                    in simple, direct language, with no sacrifices for the sake of a popular style. The sense of his
                    perfect honesty and trustworthiness continually grows upon one that has occasion to use him much,
                    and the student of the period and locality with which he deals inevitably comes to use him as the
                    most satisfactory authority. No higher compliment than this can be paid to a historian. Bancroft,
                    Parkman, Prescott, Motley were not more devoted to their chosen course than Dillon, nor brought to
                    their tasks riper qualifications, and had he wrought in the broader field his name might have ranked
                    with theirs in the world's estimation. He had certain noble ideas, severe and simple, as to the
                    office of the historian, and no artist was truer to his art than he to this ideal. They were not
                    ideas that catered in any sense to that popular taste that demands the picturesque whatever may be
                    the fate of truth. It is quite safe to say that he would not, if he had been able, have heralded his
                    works with a blast of trumpets; and that, perhaps, is why even his own friends, as has been
                    affirmed, did not read his books and why he died in poverty.
                Mr. Dillon, as a man, was modest to shyness, and so little disposed to talk about himself, even to
                    his nearest friends, that something like a mystery seems to hang over his life. According to the
                    best authority he was born at 
                        Wellsburg
                    , 
                        West Virginia
                    , in the year 1808. He learned the printer's trade when a lad, and drifted to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where he remained ten years, working at the case. During this period he brought
                    himself into notice as a poet by verses contributed to  Flint's
                    Western Review, the Western Souvenir, the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Gazette and other western periodicals; but this disposition evidently wore off with his
                    youth. A few of these poems, among them "The Burial of the Beautiful," have been preserved in
                    Coggeshall's collection of western poets. In 1834 he migrated to 
                        Logansport
                    , 
                        Ind.
                     Here he studied law and was admitted to the bar, but law was not to his taste, and he
                    never practiced.
                        Birth, Early Life and Work
                    
                
                About this time he seems to have taken up with his historical studies and to be laying plans for his
                    future "History of 
                        Indiana
                    ." His first work was issued in 1843 and was called "Historical Notes of the Discovery
                    and Settlement of the Territory Northwest of the 
                        Ohio
                    ." This was introductory to and contained much of the material for a riper and more
                    ambitious volume which, in 1859, appeared under the title of "A History of 
                        Indiana
                    ," from its earliest exploration to the close of the Territorial government in 1816; to
                    which was added a general view of the progress of public affairs in the State from 1816 to 1856. It
                    is this work on which Dillon's fame chiefly rests. The fruit of the next twenty years was a small
                    volume entitled "Notes on Historical Evidence in Reference to Adverse Theories of the Origin and
                    Nature of the Government of the United States," and a thick 8-vo. on the "Oddities of Colonial
                    Legislation." These four volumes, together with a few addresses∗ and a little
                    miscellaneous writing, represent more than forty years of research.
                Few historians escape the charge of occasional mistakes, and Mr. Dillon, doubtless, was not an
                    exception to the rule; but, as we have before said, a sense of his trustworthiness grows upon the
                    student, and the seeker after authentic information learns to regard him as the most satisfactory
                    authority on early Indiana affairs. It is not easy to define the quality that begets confidence in a
                    historian—it is, indeed, somewhat akin to the mystery of personality. Suffice to say in this
                    connection that Dillon's work throughout bears the internal evidence of immense industry, unflagging
                    perseverance and an ever-present purpose to find and state the truth. Of his industry and its
                    breadth of scope, too, we have other evidence. In the preface to his "Historical Notes" he refers to
                    "many official documents, ∗ ∗ ∗ a very great number of printed authorities, and
                    many thousand pages of old manuscript records and letters;" and 
                        
                            ∗One of these addresses. "The National Decline of the Miami Indians,"
                            was delivered before the Indiana Historical Society in 1848, and is published in its
                            collection.
                    
                     in the preface to his History he speaks of "historical researches
                    which for a period of about twenty years have been perseveringly extended over a very large field,"
                    and adds this paragraph: 
                        "For the privilege of examining valuable and interesting private collections of manuscripts
                            and other documents relating to the early civil and military affairs of 
                                Indiana
                            , my public thanks are due to Hon. John Scott Harrison, of 
                                Ohio
                            ; Hon. William G. Armstrong, of 
                                Clark County
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            ; the family of Capt. Robert Buntin, of 
                                Indiana
                            ; Elihu Stout, esq., of 
                                Knox county
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            ; the family of Gen. Hyacinth Lasselle, of 
                                Indiana
                            ; and the family of Gen. John Tipton, of 
                                Indiana
                            . For the use of various important manuscripts and other valuable documents, and
                            for many interesting verbal statements concerning the public affairs of Indiana, my
                            acknowledgements have been tendered to General Marston G. Clark, Major Ambrose Whitlock, Mr.
                            Joseph Barron, Prof. Bliss, Dr. Ezra Ferris, Hon. Wm. Polke, Gen. Walter Wilson, Hon. John
                            Law, Mr. Pierre Laplante, Hon. Williamson Dunn, Dr. Azra Lee, Gen. Robert Hanna, Samuel
                            Morrison, esq., Mr. Zebulon Collings, Hon. Isaac Naylor, Major Henry Restine, Hon. Dennis
                            Pennington, Col. Abel C. Pepper, Hon. William Hendricks, Henry Hurst, esq., Col. John
                            Vawter, Col. William Conner, Hon. Stephen C. Stevens, Hon. John Ewing, Samuel Merrill, esq.,
                            Hon. John Dumont, John Dowling, esq., Hon. Albert S. White, Calvin Fletcher, esq., Hon.
                            Oliver H. Smith, Hon. John H. Thompson, Major Alexander F. Morrison, Dr. James S. Athon,
                            Hon. Isaac Blackford, Samuel Judah, esq., Hon. Abner T. Ellis, Lawrence M. Vance, esq., Hon.
                            Wm. J. Brown, Col-Williamt Reyburn, and many other gentlemen who have, at different periods,
                            manifested a friendly interest in the progress of my historical researches in the west. In
                            the course of an examination of various old French manuscripts relating to the early affairs
                            of the country lying northwest of the river 
                                Ohio
                            , I have, at different times, received essential assistance from Rev. A. M. A.
                            Martin, Dr. Luke Munsell, James W. Ryland, esq., and Col. John B. Duret."
                    
                
                To one familiar with the names of early 
                        Indiana
                     notables this quotation is of interest as showing that Dillon was widely in touch with
                    the men who were active in the history of the young common-wealth, and it appears that he diligently
                    improved his opportunities. In this respect he had the advantage over all historians of a later day,
                    for not only did there exist for him, as the pioneer, the wealth of a virgin field, but the
                    venerable men then nearing their ends intimately knew the beginnings of the Territory and State.∗ Even 
                        
                            ∗In the preface to the Historical Notes he says: "A list of the persons
                            from whom I have received rare and valuable manuscripts, and aid and encouragement in the
                            midst of perplexing difficulties, shall be published in the form of an appendix at the close
                            of the second volume of this work." In his subsequent History no such appendix exists, and
                            the paragraph above quoted evidently takes its place. In the preface of the first book he
                            mentions Rev. Mr. Martin, of 
                                Vincennes
                            ; J. W. Ryland, Esq., of 
                                Cincinnati
                            ; J. B. Duret, Esq., of 
                                Logansport
                            , and Dr. Munsell, of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , as having rendered assistance in the examination and translation of French
                            documents. In this preface, also, he gives an extended list of works consulted.
                    
                     the mass of the "manuscript records and letters" alluded to,
                    which might have been preserved for future students, seems to have passed away, and in view of this
                    loss we are doubly indebted to Dillon, who ferreted them out and made such good use of them. General
                    John Coburn's sketch of Dillon,∗ which is the best published source of
                    information, states that when the latter was secretary of the State Historical Society he prepared
                    and issued many circulars to people in various counties asking questions bearing upon all the
                    prominent facts in the history of different important localities. Answers were received and filed
                    away, and a large amount of data preserved for future use, but this, Mr. Coburn tells us, "has been
                    stolen or destroyed; no trace of it remains." According to this writer Dillon had supervision of the
                    historical material contained in the large State and county atlas of Indiana, published by Baskin,
                    Forster & Co., in 1876.
                Mr. Dillon manifestly lacked either the disposition or the tact to adapt himself to the work that
                    promised most. The writing of the "History of Indiana Territory" would easily and naturally, one
                    would think, open the way to a history of the State, especially as that field was entirely new
                    ground. If he had so directed his energies he would, doubtless, have supplied a real and much-felt
                    need far more adequately than any who have since attempted it. Of the two volumes he produced
                    instead, the "Notes on Historical Evidence," and "Oddities of Colonial Legislation," it might be
                    said that he could hardly have chosen subjects less inviting to the popular taste. On the other hand
                    they are conceded to have a distinctive value. The first-mentioned is searching and fundamental in
                    its aim, and touches the origin and nature of the United States government, and the relations of
                    State to Federal authority. Concerning the "Oddities" it will suffice to again draw upon Mr. Coburn,
                    who describes it as a work "so full of information and so unique in character, bearing such
                    indubitable evidences of authenticated and conscientious research that it is without a parallel in
                    American literature, and will be the perpetual text-book upon this subject. Here may be found rare
                    specimens of the vain, ridiculous and laughable efforts of the legislators to patch up the ills of
                    society, as quack doctor's medicines are invented, put on the market and rejected." This book 
                        Dillon's Character, Other Services, Pathetic End
                    
                    
                        
                            ∗Published in the collection of the Indiana Historical Society.
                    
                     was his last work, being, indeed, unfinished at the time of his
                    death. It would seem that he found a purchaser for his manuscript before its completion, for it is
                    said that he received for it some three hundred dollars—and this was his pecuniary return for years
                    of labor!
                Mr. Dillon was one of the many in the world's history who have not prospered according to their
                    deserts. He clove to his work with that unflagging passion which should distinguish the true worker
                    in the exercise of his natural talent, but his books brought him little remuneration. Unworldly,
                    simple-minded and idealistic, with little regard for self, he was illy qualified to contend for the
                    world's rewards. A few stanch friends, who were drawn to him by his ability and worth and beauty of
                    character, exercised over him a sort of paternal care, and through their efforts he was appointed to
                    various public offices which for thirty years afforded him a living. From 1845 to 1851 he was State
                    Librarian, then assistant Secretary of State and Secretary of the Board of Agriculture, and after
                    that an appointee to a clerkship in the Department of the Interior at 
                        Washington City
                    , where he lived twelve years. The last four years of his life he spent in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , poor almost to the verge of want, his friends afterward suspected, although, with
                    characteristic reserve, he kept that fact to himself. There are many who remember the retired,
                    gentle old man with the never-absent side-glasses concealing his eyes. Being unmarried and entirely
                    alone as regarded blood ties, he occupied a poorly-furnished room by himself in the top of the old
                    Johnson block, where the State Life building now stands. Here he died on the 27th of February, 1879.
                    Not until his effects were examined was it known that he was so poor. His very books had gone one by
                    one to the second-hand store, like household treasures to the pawn-shop, and his friends agree in
                    believing that the fear of want hastened his end.
                Forty years of honest, conscientious devotion; four books that people would not buy, and death in a
                    lonely garret face to face with grim poverty because he wrought for the love of truth and not for
                    dollars—this is the life-story of John B. Dillon. He is buried in Crown Hill, just west of the
                    soldiers' graves, and the friends who were kind to him in life have erected a fitting monument to
                    his memory. That he lies beside the heroic dead is well, for he, too, gave his life to a cause and
                    did his country a service.
                G. S. C.
            
            
            
                
                    DOCUMENTARY: The Journal of John Tipton
                Commissioner to locate Site for State Capital—1820
                [John Tipton, pioneer Indian fighter, soldier, legislator and 
                        United States
                     Senator, was a striking example of a certain type that has impressed itself upon the
                    early history of the western country of America. It is the pioneer type—the uncultured, unlettered
                    man, the product of a rude society, who, by strong natural gifts has come to the fore and asserted
                    himself with distinction among the leaders of the land. Tipton, born of pioneer stock on the 
                        Tennesee
                     frontier, came to 
                        Harrison County
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , in 1807, when 21 years old, and is said to have soon taken rank as a leader of the law
                    and order forces in his neighborhood. Along with a local military company he joined General Harrison
                    in the campaign against the Prophet's town in 1811, and in the famous battle of Tippecanoe acquitted
                    himself notably. That he rose by gradual promotion, after this campaign, to the office of brigadier
                    general is evidence of his military capacity. With the admission of 
                        Indiana
                     as a State and the creation of State and local offices he was elected sheriff of 
                        Harrison County
                    , and served as such until 1819, when he was chosen to represent his district in the
                    legislature; and as representative he was re-elected in 1821. When, in 1820, commissioners were
                    appointed to select a site for the permanent capital of the State, he was considered a proper man
                    for this important task; he was also appointed a commissioner to act with an 
                        Illinois
                     representative in fixing the dividing line between the two States; and in 1823
                    President Monroe made him general agent for the Miami and Pottowattomie Indians within our borders.
                    In 1831 he was elected by the legislature to fill out the unexpired term of 
                        U. S.
                     Senator James Noble, and in 1833 he was re-elected for the full senatorial term He died
                    in 
                        Logansport
                    , April 5, 1839, aged 53 years.
                Not the least interesting of Tipton's performances are the journals left by him, which throw a light
                    on his character, revealing his precise and methodical habit and his keen attention to practical
                    matters. Two of these journals are of particular value. These are, the journal of the Tippecanoe
                    campaign and the one here published. Each is the most circumstantial account in existence of the
                    events chronicled. Of the commissioners' work in locating the capital, there is practically no other
                    document existent, the legislative reports being exceedingly meager. The original manuscripts, once
                    owned by John B. Dillon, were found among his effects at his death, and are now in possession of Mr.
                    John H. Holliday, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . They were published by him in the 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         News, in 1879, the one here printed in the issue of April 17, and the
                    Tippecanoe account on May 5. Otherwise they have been inaccessible to the public. For best sketch of
                    Tipton see W. W. Woollen's Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early 
                            Indiana
                        .]
                THE JOURNAL.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                "on wednesday the 17 of may 1820 I set out from 
                                        Corydon
                                     in Company with Gov'r Jennings I had been appointed by the last  legislature one of the commissioners to select
                                    & locate a site for the permanent seat of government of the state of 
                                        Ind'a
                                     (we took with us Bill a Black Buoy) haveing laid in plenty of Baker
                                    (bacon?) coffy &c and provided a tent we stopt at P Bells two hours then set
                                    out and at 7 came to Mr Winemans (?) on Blue
                                        river, stopt for the K't (night)
                                "thursday the 18th
                                "some frost set out early and set out at sunrise at ½ p 9 stopt at 
                                        Salem
                                     had breckfast paid $1.00 B &c and Bo't some powder paper
                                    &c paid 2.12 ½ Set out at 11 crost muscakituck paid 25 cts and stopt at Col
                                    Durhams in Vallonia who was also a Commissioner here we found Gen'l Bartholomew one
                                    of the commissioners Gen'l J. Carr & Cap't Dueson of charlestown who was
                                    going out to look at the country I cleaned out my gun after dinner we went to
                                    shooting
                                "Friday 19 we set out early stopt at Browntown had Breckfast paid 50 cents set out at
                                    ½ p 9 at one stopt at Cap't J. Shields after Dinner we set (out) Cap't Shield went
                                    with us this evening crost the river at the lower rapids after traveling about 7
                                    miles through good land encamped and stretched our tent near a pond this is the
                                    first time I have stretched or slept in a tent since 1814.
                                "Saturday the 20
                                Cap't Shields left us and returned home we set out before sunrise and at 45 p 6 came
                                    to John Reddick who lives on S 19 T 8 N of R 6 W∗ fine land fed
                                    paid 42 ½ set out at 8 at 5 p 12 came to the upper Rappids of Drift at the plaice
                                    where we made Bark Cannoes to carry a wounded man down to vallonia on the 20th of
                                    June 1813 Stopt let our horses graze set out at 1 and 15 p 3 came to John Berry† who
                                    lives on S 5 T 10 N of R 5 E good land good water and timber
                                
                                    
                                        ∗Obviously a mistake. Range 6 east is
                                        meant.
                                    †John Berry, whose cabin stood at the mouth of Sugar Creek, in 
                                            Johnson
                                            County
                                        , is deserving of notice as the man who cut a "trace" into the heart
                                        of the wilderness which was the route of ingress for many of the first settlers
                                        of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         and contiguous territory, Berry's Trace, as it was called, began at 
                                            Napoleon
                                        , 
                                            Ripley County
                                        , ran north-westward to 
                                            Flat
                                            Rock
                                         and 
                                            Blue
                                            River
                                        , thence northward beyond Berry's house, it would seem, for we are
                                        told of its crossing the "Whetzel Trace" near the site of 
                                            Greenwood
                                        . Nineveh Berry, a well-known citizen of Anderson, was a son of John
                                        Berry, and for him, it is said, Nineveh Creek, in 
                                            Johnson
                                            County
                                         was named. See Nowland's Early Reminiscences, pp.
                                        13, 14.
                                
                                
                                "Sunday 21 set out at ½ p 4 at 5 passed a corner of S 36 T 11 N of R 4 E passed a
                                    plaice where Bartholomew and myself had encamped in June 1813 missed our way
                                    traveled east then turned Back at 8 stopt on a mudy Branch Boiled our coffy set out
                                    at 9 at ½ p 9 I killed a deer the first I have killed since 1814 at 10 came on the
                                    traice at creek found tree where I had wrote my name and dated the 19th June 1813 we
                                    traveled fast and at 7 encamped on a small creek having traveled about 45 miles
                                Monday, 22d
                                "a fine clier morning we set out at sunrise at ½ p 6 crost fall creek at a ripple
                                    stopt to B (bathe?) shave put on clean Clothes &c this creek runs for
                                    between 30 & forty miles perrellel with White river and
                                    about 6 or 8 miles from it in this creek we saw plenty of fine fish set out at 9 and
                                    passed a corner of S 32 & 33 in T 17 N of R 4 E at 15 p 11 came to the lower 
                                        Delaware
                                     Town∗ crost the river went up the n w side and at
                                    one came to the house of William Conner† the plaice appointed for the meeting of the
                                    commissioners he lives on a Prairie of about 250 acres of the White R Bottom a
                                    number of Indian Huts near his house on our arrival we found G Hunt of 
                                        Wayne County
                                     John Conner of Fayett Stephen Ludlow of 
                                        Dearborn
                                     John Gilliland of 
                                        Switzerland
                                     & Thos Emmison (Emerson) of 
                                        Knox
                                     waiting for us Wm Prince and F Rapp not being up we waited untill late
                                    in the evening We then met and were sworn according to law and adjourned until
                                    tomorrow evening
                                "Tuesday 23d went to shooting after B (breakfast?) we met appointed a committee to
                                    Draft rule and adjourned untill 12 met at 12 F Rapp appeared and was sworn We
                                    appointed G Hunt chairman and B J Blythe clerk and adjourned untill tomorrow to meet
                                    at the mouth of Fall creek
                                    Bartholomew Durham Con (Conner?) Dueson and myself ∗ ∗ I paid $1.87 ½ $1.00 for
                                    mockesons set out stopt at the lower town for the Kt
                                "Wednesday the 24th a dark morning at 9 Gov'r Jennings with the other comrs came on
                                    us set out for the mouth of fall 
                                        
                                            ∗See article in this number on Indian towns in 
                                                Marion
                                                County
                                            .
                                        †William Conner was an Indian trader who established himself on White River some four miles
                                            south of the site of 
                                                Noblesville
                                             early in the century. He was a brother of John Conner, one of
                                            the commissioners, who was the founder of 
                                                Connersville
                                            . These brothers, particularly William, were of great service to
                                            the government in its dealings with the Indians of this region, and they
                                            merit fuller biographies than have ever been written of them.
                                    
                                     creek the town we are now in is high Dry rich
                                    Bottoms very large one of the most beautiful on the river but Timber scarce we crost
                                    the river ½ mile below to the S E side ∗ ∗ this Town after traveling some distance
                                    along the Traice that led to the mouth of fall creek Bartholomew myself and some ∗ ∗
                                    turned off at 20 p 11 to see the river at 12 came on the river at 1 stopt on a bluff
                                    near 200 feet high the air cool and pleasant here we took Dinner and set out at 45 p
                                    1 at 15 p 2 crost fall creek then rode through a very rich piece of land the large
                                    timber all Dead we are told it was killed some years since by worms∗ the under growth at this time mostly prickly ash and very thick which makes
                                    it very difficult for us to ride through at ½ p 3 got to Mcormicks who lives on the
                                    river quarter of a mile below the mouth of fall creek† Last Kt I staid in an Indian
                                    Town saw some Drunk Indians this morning eat at the Table of a Frenchman who has
                                    long lived with the Indians and lives like them he furnished his table for us with
                                    eggs &c altered times since 1813 when I was last here hunting the Indians
                                    with whom we now eat drink and sleep they have now sold their land for a trifle and
                                    prepareing to leave the country where they have laid their fathers and relatives, in
                                    which we are now hunting a site for the seat of Govrt of our State The Bank of the
                                    river on which Mcormick lives is from 25 to 30 feet above the water at this time the
                                    country Back is high Dry and good soil but the timber is scarce Govr Jennings
                                    Bartholomew Durham Con and myself went down the river 1 mile to camp
                                "Thursday 25
                                "at ½ p 2 Bartholomew Durham & myself went fishing caught plenty of fine
                                    large fish returned the morning cloudy some rain 
                                        
                                            ∗This total destruction of early forest areas by "worms"
                                            is not without interest to the student of arboriculture. In the first days
                                            of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             some 200 acres within the donation known as the "caterpillar
                                            deadening" was cleared of brush, fenced in and tilled as a common field. See
                                            Holloway's 
                                                
                                                    Indianapolis
                                                
                                            , p. 9. From Tipton's location at the time of making his note this
                                            deadening was probably the one he saw. A little further on he speaks of
                                            another deadening, mentioning that it was of sugar trees.
                                        †The McCormick settlement, at the mouth of Fall Creek, was one of three sites that the
                                            commissioners seem to have had in mind beforehand. According to Nowland it
                                            consisted of "four or five families, viz: Hardings, Wilson, Pogue and
                                            McCormicks, all of whom had come that spring. Albert Wilson, a son of John
                                            Wilson, has told the editor that his father, in company with the McCormicks
                                            and George Pogue, came from 
                                                Connersville
                                            , following an Indian trail that led from the Whitewater to a
                                                White River ford at
                                            the mouth of Fall
                                            Creek. These settlers, as well as those at the "Bluffs" were, of
                                            course, "squatters," as the country had not yet been opened for
                                        settlement.
                                    
                                     Bartholomew and me went out to look at the land
                                    the comrs came down we set out for the Bluffs Distance Down the river about 15 miles
                                    the Govr started (?) here at McCormicks at ½ p 11 after traveling some distance on a
                                    small traice at 45 p 12 came to the river in a wide bottom that is inundated Staid 1
                                    hour set out very hard rain passed very bad swamp one horse crippled some of my
                                    coleags say the times is very hard came to the traice the rain fell in Torronts at ½
                                    p 4 Bartholomew Durham Carr Dueson & me stopt in some Indian camps after
                                    getting fire kindled and our clothes dry we had a pleasant kt the land here high Dry
                                    and rich Immediately (?) on the River in T 14 N of R 3 E went to Rest
                                Friday 24
                                "the morning clier cool pleasant my horse with two more missing I wrote some letters
                                    home while I was riting Col D found our horses the commissioners that had went to
                                    the Bluff last kt returned B D and myself went down to see the Bluffs∗ they waited here for our return we found the Bluff in T 13 N of R 2 E in
                                    S 13 the Bluff is about 150 feet above the river but verry uneven the water good
                                    Genl Carr [and] Capt Dueson started home and left us out of this Bluff issues a
                                    number of fine springs one of which some distance back from the river has near 20
                                    feet fall Back of this Bluff runs a beautiful creek they front on the river near 1
                                    mile if they were level on top it would be the most beautiful site for a town that I
                                    ever have seen Saw the R line between R 2 & 3 E and the carries(?) of S 12
                                    & 13 in T 13 N of R 2 E we then returned to our camp and set out to examine
                                    the n w side of the river crost in an overflowed bottom at 2 came to a plaice where
                                    the river turns to the west making a very short Bend runs hard against the w shore
                                    and seems to be a very difficult pass for boats of burthen at this plaice the growth
                                    is all young timber some remains of oald cabbins I am told there was once an Indian
                                    village here ∗ ∗ Wm Lander who lives 1 mile back from the river told me that an
                                    Indian said the French once lived here and that the Indian went to school to a
                                    Frenchman in this plaice but they left it about the time of 
                                        
                                            ∗At the bluffs of White River, in 
                                                Morgan
                                                County
                                            , where Waverly now stands, was a settlement founded by Jacob
                                            Whetzel, one of the brothers famous in the annals of Indian warfare. Whetzel
                                            cut a trace from the Whitewater to this point, and was followed and joined
                                            here by several other families. See Nowland's Early
                                                Reminiscences; also, an article in the 
                                                
                                                    Indianapolis
                                                 News, Sept. 3, 1897.
                                    
                                     Hardin's Campain which [was] about 33 years
                                        ago∗ the country continues high and good from some distance
                                    back from the river Mr Lander(?) has planted some corn here the timber very scarce
                                    here that is fit for building &c after viewing this plaice we set out and
                                    traveled up the river the land rolling at 3 crost a Branch at 4 came to a beautiful
                                    clier pond or lake about 60 yards wide seeming nearly from n to s† the water clier
                                    the Bottom gravley a plenty of fish we drank some and continued on our course at 45
                                    p 5 crost Eagle creek‡ a beautiful creek sufficient to turn a mill at 6 our co
                                    (company?) became uneasy and at(?) we crost the river to the s e side and at 7
                                    arrived at the mouth of Fall creek found Govr Jennings had went up to conners
                                "Saturday 27th
                                "a fine clier morning very cool before breckfast we walked out to look at the Bottom
                                    had breckfast &c Durham paid $2.25 at 9 we crost to the n w side we crost at
                                    the mouth of Fall creek the n w side below the mouth of the creek is low and
                                    overflows above is some high land at 45 p 11 came to the river Boiled our coffy
                                    after some time spent on the n w we crost to the s e side the comrs then met and
                                    agreed to select and locate the site Township 15 north of R 3 E which Township was
                                    not divided into sections but Judge Wm B Loughlin of 
                                        Brookville
                                     in whose district the Township lies having been instructed by the
                                    Surveyor General to to give every facillity in his power to the comrs in the
                                    completion of their duty we agreed and hired a man to carry a letter to his camp for
                                    which we gave him $2.00 Bartholomew Col Durham & Jonathan Woodberry a friend
                                    of mine from Hardinsburg with whom I have just went 1 mile down the river and
                                    encamped for the Kt Some of the comrs came to our camp we had a pleasant evening
                                "Sunday 28 a cool clier day we met at 6 Judge Loughlin came on and stated that it
                                    would take 10 days to progress so far with the surveys as to enable us to progress
                                    with our business on motion the comrs then adjourned to meet again on next Monday
                                    week at 45 p 11 we set out for Wm Conners J Conner and G Hunt two of the comrs went
                                    home the rest to Win Conners we 
                                        
                                            ∗See article on Indian towns.
                                        †Probably the bayou locally known as Lannigan's Lake,
                                            near south line of 
                                                Marion Co.
                                            ,
                                        ‡Note—Eagle and Fall creeks had received their names at
                                            this early date.
                                    
                                     traveled about 3 miles and crost fall creek the
                                    land being levil and rich from the river to this plaice the most of the timber for
                                    some distance from the river having been sugar tree has been killed abt 2 years
                                    since by the worms and is now thickly set with prickly ash near the creek the timber
                                    better after we crost the creek we traveled about 8 miles between the river and
                                    creek the land equally good timber mostly Sugar Buckeye Hackberry Cherry Walnut
                                    &c every quarter section is worth twice the Govert price we crost to the n w
                                    side below the lower (Indian) town Recrost at Conners 
                                        Prairie
                                     found the men playing favourite game which they call mockuson which is
                                    played with a bullit and 4 mockusons∗ then went to view the
                                    ground on which Bartholomew and me had incamped in June 17th 1813"
                            
                        
                    
                
                (Concluded next number).
            
            
                Indian Towns in 
                        Marion County
                    
                
                THE reference in the Tipton Journal to two Indian towns on White River between Conner's trading post and the
                    bluffs, one in existence at that time and the other a tradition, is a contribution to an uncertain
                    subject. The existence of a Delaware town in the north part of 
                        Marion County
                    , near where Allisonville now stands, is recognized by Ignatius Brown and Berry Sulgrove
                    in their histories, and the former tells of an old white woman who remained there after the tribe
                    had left. This woman had been captured when a child, had reared a half-breed family, and her
                    forgotten story seems to have been very like that of the more famous Frances Slocum. Very little
                    information is to be had about this town, and it is treated, rather, as a tradition at the time of
                    the first white occupancy. Tipton's statement, however, establishes that it was there in 1820.
                The town that once stood where the river crosses the south line of the county was still more a thing
                    of vague report. Prof. Ryland T. Brown, in the 
                            Indiana
                         Geological Report for 1882 (see p. 97) affirms, though without giving his
                    authority, that it was the village of a Delaware chief named Big Fire, a friend to the whites; that
                    it was destroyed by the 
                        Madison
                     Rangers, in 1812, in revenge for the 
                        
                            ∗See article on the game of Moccasin, in this number.
                    
                     Pigeon Roost massacre, and that Governor Harrison had no little
                    trouble in pacifying the chief. Incidentally it may be surmised that Tipton, who was, presumably,
                    familiar with the local military operations of that period, and who had himself campaigned here in
                    1813, as evidenced by his journal, would have know of the Madison Rangers affair; and William
                    Landers' testimony added to this pretty well negatives Prof. Brown's assertion.
                In the 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         News for May 4, 1899, appeared an article gleaned from C. T. Dollarhide, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which recounted the tradition of the neighborhood in question as handed down by the
                    narrator's grandfather, John Dollarhide, and other early settlers. Taken in connection with 
                        Tipton
                    's information, and by its internal evidence of traditionary genuineness, it would seem
                    to have more authenticity than any other statement upon the subject, and so much of the interview as
                    has a documentary value we here repeat.
                Says Mr. Dollarhide: "My grandfather, John Dollarhide, settled near the meeting point of Johnson,
                    Morgan and Marion counties in the year 1819 or 1820. His reason for settling there was that he found
                    a considerable area of land from which the great forest trees had been removed. This had again been
                    covered by bushes and small timber such as the settlers called second growth. That clearing, my
                    grandfather said, had been made by Indians, and that ground had evidently been cultivated by them.
                    My father said that after heavy showers he and his brothers had picked up Indian ornaments of
                    silver, such as were worn on the breasts of braves (a kind of brooch) and other trinkets. When my
                    father was a boy this place was called ‘the battle ground’, and is so called by some old people
                    to-day. Tradition said that some time early in this century, or at the close of the last century, a
                    party of Kentuckians had come to this Indian settlement and murdered the inhabitants. It was said
                    that there was at this place (the land, I believe, now belongs, in part, to the estate of the late
                    Eli Stone) a Catholic mission of some kind, probably a Jesuit mission; but whether the Jesuits were
                    there when the massacre took place is not a part of the tradition.
                "In 1876 I became acquainted with Judge Franklin Hardin, who settled in 
                        Johnson County
                     about 1820. When he heard my name, Dollarhide, he remarked that I must have come from
                    the  ‘battle-ground,' and I found that he had known my
                    grandfather in 
                        Kentucky
                    . The Judge said that a relative of his, a Major Hardin, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , had told him of an expedition that was led against this Indian village; that there was
                    then, or had been, a French mission there, and that the Indians had been massacred in regular 
                        Kentucky
                     fashion. The Judge said, I believe, that his relative had told him of this massacre in 
                        Kentucky
                     before he removed to Indiana, and that he (the Judge) had no doubt that the
                    ‘battle-ground’ was the identical spot of which the Major had told him. The Major, it was said, had
                    taken part in this raid, which the Judge thought took place about the year 1795.∗
                
                "In 1863, while making the 
                        Indianapolis
                     & Waverly gravel road, the workmen, digging into a gravel bank, threw out a
                    number of human bones. It is not too curious to connect these bones with that massacre. ∗ ∗ My
                    father told me that he had found a piece of stone-work there—an arch, I believe—and that he was
                    certain that this piece, which was skilfully cut, could only have been fashioned by a white man, and
                    that it may have formed some part of the French mission building."†
            
            
                The Games of Moccasin and Bullet
                The following, written by the late Robert B. Duncan, a well-known pioneer of 
                        Marion County
                    , throws further light on the game of "mockuson" spoken of by Tipton (see journal, p.
                    15).
                "Bullet, as it was termed, was a gambling game considerably used in its day; so much so as to cause
                    the enactment [of a law] making it a finable offense to play it. It was borrowed from the 
                        
                            ∗"On the 26th of August, 1789, about two hundred mounted volunteers,
                            under the command of Colonel John Hardin, marched from the Falls of the 
                                Ohio
                             to attack some of the Indian towns on the 
                                Wabash
                            . This expedition returned to the Falls on the 26th of September, without the
                            loss of a man—having killed six Indians, plundered and burnt one deserted village, and
                            destroyed a considerable quantity of corn."—Dillon, p. 220.
                        †Since the above was put in type the editor finds the question of this Indian town
                            discussed at length by D. D. Banta, in the larger history of 
                                Johnson County
                            , pp. 283-286. Judge Banta's conclusion would seem to be in line with Mr.
                            Dollarhide's version. For further information touching the white captive of the upper town
                            see The Western Censor (
                                Indianapolis
                             public library), June 11, 1823.
                    
                    
                    
                        Delaware
                     Indians,∗ who were great experts in playing it, and were inveterate
                    gamblers. I well recollect frequently seeing them playing the game, which was then called
                    "moccasin," and was played in this wise:
                "The professional gambler would spread upon a smooth, level grass plat a large, well-dressed deer
                    skin, upon which he would place in a semi-circular form, within convenient reach of the player, a
                    half-dozen newly-made moccasins. The game consisted in the use of a large-sized bullet held in his
                    hands and shown to those looking on and desiring to take part in the game, and then, in a hurried
                    and very dextrous manner, placing his hand under each moccasin, leaving the bullet under one of
                    them. Betting was then made as to which one of the moccasins the bullet was under. As the manner of
                    shuffling the hands under each moccasin was done so rapidly and skilfully that it was impossible for
                    the by-standers to see under which the bullet was left, it will thus be seen that the chances were
                    largely in favor of the gambler.
                "The few whites inclined in this direction learned this game from the Indians, and after the removal
                    of the latter from the country kept up the game, using private rooms and covered tables in place of
                    grass plat and buckskin; and for want of moccasins, using caps, and changing the name from
                    "moccasin" to "bullet." this game continued to be played to such an extent as to cause the
                    legislature to enact a law making it a finable offense. This law, with the introduction of the more
                    secret and convenient means of gambling still in use, soon caused the game of bullet to become one
                    of the lost arts.†"
                
                    
                        ∗The game was also a favorite one with the Miamis and Pottowattomies.
                    †Query—Is the "shell" game of the present day a surviving form of
                        "moccasin?"
                
            
            
            
                Gleaned from the Pioneers
                [Under this heading we will aim to present, from issue to issue, reminiscences gathered at first-hand
                    from surviving pioneers, and written in a popular vein. While the Indian story, immediately below,
                    does not fell precisely within this scope, it seems as good a place as any to insert it.—Ed.]
                AN INDIAN STORY
                
                ALONG the Wabash and Mississinewa rivers, in northern 
                        Indiana
                    , where the red man and his traditional lore are not yet quite forgotten, there lingers
                    many a fugitive story which has never found the publicity of print. Those who know them are yearly
                    becoming scarcer, but an industrious collector might still glean an interesting harvest. Here is a
                    sample which we have picked up from Gabriel Godfrey, a son of Francis Godfroy, who was the last war
                    chief of the Miami Indians. Gabriel Godfroy, the most notable Indian now to be found in 
                        Indiana
                    , lives a few miles east of the city of 
                        Peru
                    , on a small remnant of the ample lands once reserved to his father.∗ With the true primitive instinct he treasures the unwritten history of his people as it has
                    been handed down from site to son, and this story, told in a quaint style that must be largely lost
                    in the writing, is only one of many. The narrative is gruesome, but reflects the Indian life and
                    spirit, and has the ethnic value—the value of the folk-story.
                Once a young Miami brave took to wife a daughter of the Wea tribe, further down the 
                        Wabash
                    , and because of her left his own people to go and live among the strangers. While the
                    Miami was still a stranger a marauding band of Kickapoos caught and scalped a Wea woman, and the cry
                    arose for vengeance. A council was held, and when the braves sat in circle the head man of the
                    village passed around with a war club, offering it to each in turn. If one took the club it
                    signified that he accepted the leadership of a war party to pursue the enemy: but that not only
                    meant danger—it: also meant disgrace to the leader if the expedition failed. One by one the braves
                    let the club pass. Ere it reached the Miami he thought much. To accept it was to risk much, but to
                    let it pass was to show fear, and he had his reputation to establish among his new friends; so when
                    it came to him he took it and became chief of the war party, pledged to avenge the wrongs done his
                    people.
                
                    
                        ∗Since writing the above we understand that Gabriel has lost even this
                        remnant.
                
                
                Then the armed braves started out on the trail. Ere long they came to the rude picture of a buck cut
                    on the bark of a tree. This was the totem sign of the leader of their foes, and the carving was an
                    act of bravado. When they saw the sign the Weas paused and spoke discouragingly to each other. They
                    knew the Buck. His boldness and his craft were notorious, and often before they had sought vengeance
                    for his deeds, but to no avail. To pursue him now was of no use, they said, and they would have
                    turned back; but their Miami leader said no—they must follow and pit cunning against cunning. So
                    they followed for many miles, the trail growing hotter, till at length they came in sight of their
                    enemies' smoke. Then they went warily as wild beasts creeping upon their prey, and when they had
                    drawn near two of them, disguised as wolves, crept closer yet and found the Kickapoos lolling beside
                    their fire, the leader being distinguished by a buck tattooed upon his thigh. When the two Weas
                    returned to their companions a council was held. They outnumbered their foes, and it was decided
                    that the party should creep up and, if possible, kill all but the Buck—him they would take alive and
                    be revenged for all the trouble he had caused them. They managed well, and the Kickapoos were shot
                    down before they could offer fight, but when they came to lay hands upon the Buck he was so strong
                    that he threw them aside like children till one Wea, older and more experienced than the others,
                    struck him across the muscles of his arms with a war-club, when his hands fell powerless. So they
                    took and bound him. When the Buck saw that no further resistance could avail he bade his captors
                    burn him then and there and save themselves trouble, for he would not go with them to be sport for
                    their village. This was not what they wished, for their greatest glory would be to return to their
                    people leading their prisoner in triumph to be sacrificed before them all. No cruel forcing that
                    they could devise, however, would make him go. He taunted them, defying them to burn him there,
                    until at length they bound him to a tree and piled the fagots about him. When the fire began to burn
                    he asked for a pipe to smoke. It was given him, and as the flames licked about his flesh he caimly
                    smoked until, the life slowly driven out the pipe dropped from his mouth and he hung limp in his
                    bonds. So he frustrated his enemies at the last, but they returned in triumph, having ridded
                    themselves of the Buck, and the young Miami had won glory for himself.
                
                But glory, among the red men as among the white, is sometimes harder to maintain than it is to gain.
                    In course of time another hostile band committed depredation upon the Weas, and again the Miami, who
                    had succeeded so well before, led a party in pursuit. The trail they followed led across a little
                    swampy place, and from the end of a log the fugitives had passed over the soft ground, each leaping
                    in the tracks of the first one. When the leader of the Weas came to the end of the log he too leapt
                    into the first foot-print made by their enemies, and he found himself out-witted by their cunning;
                    for in this first track they had skilfully sunken an arrow with the barb pointing upward and
                    concealed just beneath the surface. On this he came with all his weight and ran his foot through and
                    through, so that his party had to carry him back home humiliated with failure.
                EARLY DAYS AT DEPAUW
                
                ONE of the sprightliest "recollectionists" in 
                        Indianapolis
                     is the venerable John W. Ray, Hoosier octogenarian, who during his long life has been
                    in the thick of things, and whose memory is good. Some sixty years ago Mr. Ray entered the walls of
                    DePauw College, or, as it was then called, Asbury University, to equip himself for the battle of
                    life, and what he has to say about it will perhaps be of interest to DePauw folks, and some others
                    as well.
                "In those days," says Mr. Ray, "the boy who had his way paid and his path made easy and pleasant was
                    the exception. The large proportion of them were of the pioneer type—poor boys, many of them from
                    the farm, who had to live at the minimum cost and work at a maximum pressure. Their clothes were
                    generally home spun, and fashioned by the loving hands of self-sacrificing mothers. Under-clothes
                    were regarded as effeminate, and were rarely worn, and such superfluities of toilet as are now worn
                    for the sake of adornment were but little in evidence.
                "When I went there, in the early '40s three of us rented a room for two dollars per month that was
                    sumptuously furnished with a stove and two or three chairs, an old bedstead and a straw tick, which
                    latter we were privileged to replenish at the straw-pile when we wished. Here we cooked, ate,
                    studied and slept. Our board  bills averaged about one dollar per
                    week, and the fare gave us abundant strength to fight our way through Greek, Latin, mathematics and
                    the applied sciences.
                When James Harlan from 
                        Parke County
                     came there with his worldly effects done up in a beggarly bundle no one seemed willing
                    to trust him for his board, so he went to the president and offered to do janitor work in the
                    college for the use of a vacant room in the building. The room was granted him and he managed to
                    live there and board himself, and in the end was one of those who have honored old Asbury. When he
                    graduated he had not even a coat to don, and in lieu thereof wore a calico dressing gown
                    supplemented by a pair of old slippers on his feet. About that time the 
                        Iowa
                     University was established, and soon after a committee from that State came to Asbury
                    in search of a good man for their president. Harlan was recommended to them; he was sent for, and
                    within thirty days after his graduation in the dressing-gown he was installed as the new president
                    of the new college. He became a prominent citizen of his adopted State. In the winter of '45-'46 the 
                        Iowa
                     legislature established a Department of Public Instruction, and Harlan, although he was
                    a Whig and the legislature was Democratic, was chosen as superintendent. Subsequently he was honored
                    with other offices, among them that of the U. S. senatorship. He was Secretary of the Interior in
                    President Lincoln's cabinet, and also judge in the Court of Claims. James Harlan was a cousin of
                    Judge Harlan, of the Supreme Court Bench. He was the best debater, the best logician and the best
                    judge of men I ever knew. He never wrote his speeches, but filled himself full of his subject and
                    out of that fulness spoke with eloquence and spontaneity.
                "And by the way, do you know that Indiana has furnished more citizens and more Methodists to 
                        Iowa
                     than to any other State in the west?
                "One of the brightest students of old Asbury, and one who, I feel sure, would have made his mark had
                    he been spared, bore the odd name of Greenberry Short. Short came as a homeless wanderer to the
                    office of Judge Samuel Hough, of 
                        Lafayette
                    , and solicited a job as office boy. Hough employed him, and before long noticed that
                    the lad spent all his leisure time dipping into the law books. Becoming interested in him he
                    encouraged him to enter Asbury, rendering him such assistance as lay in his power. While  there he made his way by doing janitor service and such work as offered
                    itself. He carried off the honors of his class, and after graduation returned to study law in Judge
                    Hough's office. But the confinement proved fatal to him. He fell a victim to hasty consumption and
                    was cut off in the flower of his promise. I remember that we celebrated, or attempted to celebrate,
                    Greenberry's twenty-first birth day in a way all our own. His face was peculiarly soft and smooth,
                    and taking our cue from that, we seized him and bore him in triumph to a private room where one of
                    the boys was ready with a big basin and soap, a painter's brush and a huge pruning knife. His face
                    and head was plentifully lathered preparatory to his maiden shave, but before the pruning knife
                    could be applied the victim made a break for liberty and eescaped down street, lather and all.
                "Daniel W. Voorhees was in the class just before mine. Voorhees was good in belle lettres, rhetoric
                    and history, but in mathematics, logic, languages, or in fact anything that took hard work, he fell
                    short. He was no such man as Harlan. Voorhees' acquirements were on the surface, Harlans' in the
                    depths.
                "I may add that in those days there was no football, no baseball and no college yells. Boys who were
                    hungry enough for knowledge to work their way to it by hands as well as by brains had less need of
                    those gentle diversions. We did, however, play townball and cricket somewhat. We were also sturdy
                    ramblers, and as to our gymnasium it was, practically, all of 
                        Putnam County
                    ."
                "UNCLE JOE" BROWN TALKS
                
                ONE of the "walking encyclopedias" of information touching things historic is "Uncle Joe" Brown, who,
                    although bent with the weight of many years and patiently expectant of the Summons, still holds his
                    desk in the County Clerk's office, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he does diligent daily service in the rounding out of a busy life. A
                    well-directed question suffices to start Uncle Joe, and he will reel you off a medley which turns
                    this way or that as one theme suggests another.
                
                We were nosing among the old records of the 
                        Marion County
                     Commissioners' office, and finding sundry allusions to the office of "fence viewer" we
                    went to Mr. Brown to learn what a fence-viewer might be. He told us all about it. In early days, it
                    seems, when there were large unclaimed tracts and much stock had the range of the country, there was
                    considerable trouble with animals breaking into growing crops, what with breachy "critters" and poor
                    fences. This caused no end of wrangling—so much so, indeed, that a law was passed defining a "legal
                    fence," or one that in law should be considered a sufficient guard. Along with this went a
                    functionary whose business it was to judge whether a man's fence was up to the legal standard when
                    his neighbor's hungry hordes visited his succulent corn. This was the "fence-viewer." As the country
                    came to have less waste land and the liberties of the omnivorous cow and elm-peeler were restricted
                    the services of the viewer fell into desuetude and he passed into forgotten history. In importance
                    and dignity the office ranked along with that of road supervisor.
                Something in this reminded Uncle Joe of a story of ex-President Tyler. After John Tyler retired from
                    the presidential office his neighbors of the other party, as a sort of a practical joke, and also,
                    perhaps, to show their opinion of his capacity, got together and elected him road-master; but they
                    wote not they were casting a boomerang. John accepted the office. The 
                        Virginia
                     law gave this functionary almost unlimited power in calling out citizens for road
                    service, and the distinguished road-master made the most of his privileges. For about three months
                    that year, in season and out of season, he worked his constituency on the public highways till they
                    wished they hadn't done it. Tyler stood the "joke" better than they did, and the traveling public
                    got the benefit.
                "Did you know," queried Mr. Brown, "that Jefferson, Madison and Monroe were all justices of the peace
                    after serving as President of the 
                        United States
                    ?. They were, and they thought the humbler office worthy of them—which shows a more
                    democratic spirit than we find to-day. Besides, Jefferson and Monroe left the presidential chair
                    poor, and the justice's fees were not to be sneezed at in those simple days. I don't know about
                    Madison's circumstances—probably Dolly looked after them with her characteristic vim.
                "I remember Dolly Madison. When I was a clerk in the United States Senate she used frequently to
                    visit that body and sit as a  guest of honor beside the
                    Vice-president. They were wont to show her every mark of respect. Whenever she appeared business
                    would be suspended for the moment and she would be gallantly escorted to her seat, usually by the
                    venerable John Quincy Adams. She was a fat old woman of seventy then, and he eighty-eight, and as
                    they marched up the aisle with stately gravity they were a pair to be remembered.
                John Quincy Adams—ah, there was a Nestor for you! He has been frequently spoken of as ‘the Old Man
                    Eloquent,’ but that does not fitly characterize him. He had a squeaky voice, was not prepossessing
                    as a speaker, and his power lay not so much in oratory as in learning. He seemed to have read
                    everything, ancient and modern, and to have remembered everything. No one ever asked him about
                    anything but he could make it the theme for an off-hand dissertation full of erudition. Withal, he
                    knew how to use his learning with trip-hammer effect. On one occasion Henry A. Wise, of 
                        Virginia
                    , eloquently and scathingly arraigned the abolitionists for the mischief they were
                    somenting. Wise was a genuine orator, and when he was done the abolitionists and their cause looked
                    a sorry spectacle. Then Adams arose to reply, and he took an hour at the task. At the end of that
                    hour Wise was simply annihilated, and his argument, from first to last, torn to tatters. Mere
                    oratory and super-heated feeling stood no show at all against countless facts and sound logic. Wise
                    himself, in response, said, with as much grace as possible, that Mr. Adams might advocate any
                    proposition whatsoever and he, for one, would not again venture to enter the lists against him. I
                    remember one little thing that illustrated Adams' Yankee caution. It was the custom of the Senate
                    pages to secure autographs of the notables, which, no doubt, they disposed of to their own profit. I
                    noticed repeatedly that Mr. Adams, when he honored these requests, had a habit of signing his name
                    at the top of the sheet or slip, leaving very little margin above. Curious to know why he did this I
                    once asked him about it, and in reply he squeaked: ‘I do that so no one can write a note over my
                    name.’ I was sitting near Mr. Adams and was one of those who carried him out of the Senate chamber
                    when he was stricken down. He collapsed in his seat as if shot, but rallied enough to gasp: ‘And
                    this is the last of earth!’ And so passed a great man.
                
                "What other famous men have I known? More than I could talk about or think of in one sitting, young
                    man; and witnessed more changes than most men of the present generation. I suppose I am the only one
                    now living who was present when the first public trial was made of the magnetic telegraph. A
                    dispatch was to be sent from Washington to 
                        Baltimore
                    , and the members of Congress and others were invited to witness the test. Professor
                    Morse had been the guest of Henry L. Ellsworth, Commissioner of Patents, and in courtesy he had
                    invited Mr. Ellsworth's daughter, Anna, to write the first message. She arrived a little late, and
                    stepping at once to an old desk that stood in a corner wrote this, from the twenty-first chapter of
                    Numbers: ‘What God hath wrought.’ Morse transmitted this over the wire, and in about five minutes
                    the answer came back, and thus a new factor was introduced into civilization."
                We had heard it stated that Mr. Brown had written the first review of a Hoosier book ever written by
                    a Hoosier, and we asked him about it. "That," he said, "was the Indian poem, ‘Elskatawa,’ by George
                    W. Cutter, better known to fame by his ‘Song of Steam.’ I don't remember much about the review now,
                    but one incident in connection with Cutter I have reason for remembering very vividly. Cutter fell
                    in love with a Mrs. Drake, an actress, here in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and, as became a poet, his falling was as deep as it was sudden. He wanted her to
                    marry, but the lady said nay. She seems to have been persuaded at the last minute, however, and just
                    as she was on the eve of a nocturnal flight to make connection with another engagement. At any rate
                    it was a midnight marriage, fully up to the standard of the romancist. At that time I happened to be
                    the clerk of whom people who wanted to amalgamate had to get their license, and at an hour of the
                    night so late that the very clocks had stopped running and gone to rest I was knocked out of bed and
                    haled across town through the grewsome darkness to the court house to issue the required document.
                    That is why I have a particularly lively recollection of George W. Cutter.
                "Well, well, I must get to work! Yes, young man, the fence-viewer is an institution of the good old
                    times—you will never see his like again." And Uncle Joe turned once more to his unfinished page of
                    scribing.
            
            
            
                
                    CONTRIBUTIONS: The Laws of Indiana as Affected by the Present Constitution
                BY W. W. THORNTON
                
                
                    Author of Thornton's Revised Statutes, The Gov't of the State of Indiana, etc.
                
                THE first Constitution of the State of 
                        Indiana
                     was completed and adopted June 29, 1816, and the State was admitted to the Union the
                    11th of the following December. The second Constitution was completed February 10, 1851, and went
                    into force the 1st day of the following November.
                The Constitution of 1851 was not secured without a struggle which extended over many years. The
                    Constitution of 1816 provided that every twelfth year the question of calling a convention to revise
                    or amend it should be submitted to the voters at the general election, held for the election of
                    Govenor. The first twelfth year came in 1828, when only ten counties reported, 8,909 votes being
                    cast on the subject. Of these, 3,329 were in favor of and 5,580 against calling a convention. At the
                    election in 1840 only 38 counties reported, and 41,823 votes were cast, 7,489 for and 34,334 against
                    a convention.
                        Antecedent Provisions of the Second Cons't'n
                    
                
                This provision of the Constitution requiring a vote every twelfth year was regarded as only
                    directory, and not to prohibit a vote on the question of revising at any election held to elect a
                    governor. Under this interpretation of that provision a vote was taken in 1846; votes cast, 62,018,
                    with 33, 175 favoring, and 28,843 against. While a majority of all votes cast on the question was in
                    favor of the convention yet the Constitution required that the number should be a majority of all
                    votes cast at the election; and as 126, 123 were cast for the gubernatorial candidates the number
                    voting in favor of the convention was not a majority of all votes cast at the election. In 1849 the
                    question was a fourth time submitted, the result being a vote of 81,500 in favor of the convention
                    to 57,418 against it—a majority of 6,612 votes over all votes cast at the election for all the
                    candidates for any one office.
                        Twelfth-year Proviso, Interpretation of
                    
                
                The causes that prompted the calling of the Constitutional Convention of 1850 are reflected in its
                    provisions, and have left their  imprint on all subsequent
                    legislation. The territorial laws were often very crude, and not infrequently is this also true of
                    those adopted under the constitution of 1816. In 1824, 1832, 1838 and 1843 general revisions of
                    these State laws took place. That of 1824 was almost wholly the work of Benjamin Parke, and was a
                    marked improvement over the laws that preceded it, but the revisions of 1832 and 1838 were largely
                    re-prints of laws already enacted, while that of 1843 was so radical in form and introduced so many
                    changes as to be quite unsatisfactory.
                        Causes Leading to New Constitution
                    
                
                The first legislature after the adoption of the constitution of 1851 revised the entire body of our
                    laws. That instrument required the appointment of commissioners to revise, simplify and abridge the
                    rules, practice, pleadings and forms of the court, and to provide for abolishing distinct forms of
                    action then in force, that justice might be administered in a uniform mode of pleading and the
                    distinction between law and equity preserved.∗ The constitution made it the
                    imperative duty of the legislature to bring about these changes through the agency of a commission.
                    It also authorized it to empower the commission to revise the entire body of our statute laws, but
                    this the legislature reserved to itself.
                        General Revision under New Constitution
                    
                
                One of the most noticeable differences in the legislation before and after the adoption of the new
                    constitution is the manner in which statutes are amended. Under the old constitution they were
                    frequently changed or amended by providing that a certain word or words in a certain line of a
                    certain section in a certain act should be stricken out and certain other words inserted. This is
                    the method still pursued by Congress. The practice creates great confusion, and it is not always an
                    easy task to determine the effect of statutes after the amendment is made. Under our present method
                    the amended section must be definitely referred in the amending act, and then the section as amended
                    set out in full. Formerly, under decisions of the Supreme Court, it was necessary to set out in full
                    the old section, and then in full the section as amended, but a later interpretation of the
                    constitution by that court permits the omis 
                        
                            ∗This may not express Mr. Thornton's exact meaning. There was some
                            confusion in the copy here, and it was not possible to submit proof–Ed.
                        
                    
                    sion of the old section, thus simplifying the process.
                        Amendments under the New Constitution
                    
                
                Another noticeable change is that the laws with very few exceptions are of a uniform and general
                    application throughout the State. Prior to 1851 our statute books were loaded down with special
                    legislation. Every city was incorporated by a law particularly its own, and there was no general law
                    for their incorporation until after that date. Towns were incorporated in the same way. A stranger
                    entering a town or city was chargeable with notice of the laws of the place, and was bound to obey
                    them, and yet he could not know what they were until he had examined the charter of the city or
                    town. It was nothing uncommon to vacate a street or even an alley by special act of the legislature.
                    Prior to 1851 a temperance wave had swept over the State, taking a stronger hold on the people in
                    one locality than in another. The result was a great patchwork of statutes relating to the subject.
                    In some counties prohibitory laws were in force, while in others a license was required. Even in the
                    same county these differences prevailed, some of the townships being "dry" while others were
                        "wet".
                        Spec'l Legislation under Old Const.
                    
                
                There was no uniformity in the schools, the laws being as various with reference to the subject of
                    public education as those concerning the sale of intoxicating liquors. The public schools were
                    poor—far below the standard prevailing today. Practice and pleading in our court are now uniform,
                    but before 1851 such was not the case. In a county in particular instances a certain practice had to
                    be observed; in an adjoining one, another, and in a third still another. Even the practice in
                    several townships of the same county before justices of the peace was not uniform, and a special law
                    for the election of a justice of the peace in a particular township was not uncommon. Nor were the
                    laws of taxation uniform. One county could levy a certain tax while another could not levy it; and
                    this difference often extended to townships of the same county, or to cities and towns.
                        Lack of Uniformity
                    
                
                There is also a vast body of legislation, of a date prior to 1851, that is called "private"
                    legislation, because it is of a private and not a public character. Prior to 1847 each corporation
                    was incorporated by an act of the legislature pertaining to it alone, called the "charter". At the
                    session of 1846-7 the first law of a general character for the 
                    incorporation of voluntary associations was enacted, but it was limited in its scope. Academies,
                    seminaries, colleges, private schools, libraries, railroads, manufacturing and trading companies of
                    all kinds, planing mills, saw mills, and even brass bands were incorporated by private acts of the
                    legislature. This practice became a great burden to that body. Thus at the five sessions prior to
                    that of 1843-4 the number of octavo pages of the private laws were respectively 180, 301, 365, 431
                    and 636; while those of the general laws were respectively only 122, 92, 135, 164 and 125. Within
                    the eight years prior to 1846 more than four hundred private acts of incorporation were
                        enacted.
                        Private Legislation under Old Constitution
                    
                
                Under the old constitution the legislature could grant divorces, and 83 were granted, 40 of them at
                    the session of 1845-6. Under the present constitution none can be granted by this method. Under the
                    present constitution each statute can embrace only one subject, and the subject-matter must be
                    embraced within the title. There was no such requirement under the old constitution. The object of
                    this provision is to prevent undesirable legislation slipping through, and to give all legislation
                    as much publicity as is conveniently possible.
                Another reason for a new constitution was the resentment in the breasts of many toward the State Bank
                    and its branches, and the monopoly it held in banking matters in the State. It had become a very
                    lucrative source of income to its stock-holders, who were mostly influential Whigs, and the
                    Democrats dreaded their influence in State affairs. Many of the latter, therefore, favored a
                    revision of our banking laws so as to overthrow the bank. Still another reason, growing out of the
                    disastrous State internal improvement legislation, was to adopt measures to prevent the lending of
                    the State's funds or credit to private enterprises.
                        Various Reasons for new Coast.
                    
                
                These were some of the features in our laws that brought about the calling of the convention of 1850.
                    Others were the election of the judiciary and all State and county officers by popular vote;
                    biennial instead of annual sessions of the legislature, and the election of members of the general
                    assembly from single dstricts. The year 1850 was also the end of two decades of constitutional
                    construction and revision in many of the States of the Union. That  fact had a decided influence in bringing about the call for a convention. In 1830 
                        Virginia
                     had adopted a new constitution; in 1831, 
                        Delaware
                    ; in 1832, 
                        Mississippi
                    ; in 1835. 
                        Michigan
                     (although not admitted until 1837); in 1836, 
                        Arkansas
                    ; in 1838, 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Florida
                     (although the latter was not admitted until 1845); in 1842, Rhode Island; in 1844, 
                        New Jersey
                    ; in 1845, 
                        Louisiana
                     and 
                        Texas
                    ; in 1846, 
                        Iowa
                     and 
                        New York
                    ; in 1848, 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                    ; in 1849, 
                        California
                    ; in 1850, 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Michigan
                    . In 
                        Maryland
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                     the subject had been so much under discussion that in 1851 both these States adopted
                    new constitutions.
                        Movement in Other States
                    
                
                The laws enacted at the first session of the legislature after the adoption of the
                    present constitution were decided improvement over previous statutes. Of course there were radical
                    changes required by the new fundamental law, but even where no changes were so required many were
                    made. There were many improvements upon the draft of the statutes, for the legislators had the old
                    statutes-before them, and it was an easy thing to improve upon them. The general body of the law was
                    made more certain, and in many instances not so complex.
                        First Laws under New Constitut'n
                    
                
                The crown of the work of legal reformation was the two codes—the civil and the criminal. These were the work of the Commissioners of Revision, and well they did their work. 
                        New York
                    , in 1846, had adopted a code of civil procedure—the first in this country—which served
                    as a model for our revisers, as well as a model for many, other States since the adoption of our
                    code. David Dudley Field, in many respects her greatest lawyer, had written her code, and the
                    impress of his genius has been felt in many of the States of the Federal Union. The 
                        Indiana
                     codes—especially the civil code—are models of legal writing. The commissioners that
                    revised them in 1881 made few changes and added little to them, but what they did was an
                    improvement. The new codes introduced great and radical changes in the practice of the law, sweeping
                    away a brood of fictions and technicalities that rendered the practice uncertain, cumbersome and
                    unnecessarily prolix. Strange as it may be, the reformation of our practice in the courts was
                    brought about largely by the laity, and against the opposition of a majority of the members of the
                    legal profession.
                        New Civil and Criminal Codes
                    
                
                
                The statutes of our State are not as well written as those of some of the older States, nor as well
                    as those of the United States, but there is a marked improvement in them in this respect over our
                    early statutes. The Commissioners of Revision in 1881 presented to the legislature drafts of many
                    statutes that failed to pass that body, which would not only have introduced many reforms into our
                    legislation but greatly improved existing statutory law. Many of our statutes should be re-written
                    and simplified. This is especially true of the school law, which is a mere hodge-podge of statutes
                    enacted during the last thirty-seven years, often so obscure that no man can tell what the law is
                    upon a particular question. In the writing of statutes one of the cardinal principles to be kept in
                    view is that a statute with which the people en masse have to deal should be not
                    only clear in its language, but explicit and minute in detail. Statutes that courts deal chiefly
                    with may be more general in terms and omit details in many instances, the courts having the power to
                    supply the latter often when necessary to carry out their provisions. Such a statute will not do,
                    however, where the people en masse deal in minute particulars directly with its
                    provisions. The civil and criminal codes are written in general terms, but the tax and Australian
                    ballot laws are written in great detail, the language used in them being explicit and clear. They
                    are models of statutory writing. The laws on taxation and elections are not only a great advancement
                    over the laws of the past on those subjects, but are much better and more clearly written than those
                    of the past.
                        On the Writing of Statutes
                    
                
                Beginning with 1888 the volume of our legislation has annually been very large as compared with that
                    of the previous years. Many statutes are now in force on subjects where prior to 1851 none existed.
                    This is due to the condition of the country and the advance in civilization. There have arisen new
                    conditions, new methods of doing business, new opportunities to commit crimes, and these had to be
                    met. Necessity in old countries requires the statutes to be more numerous, more minute in detail,
                    and usually more complicated than in new countries, and for this reason a new revision of our
                    statute laws can be but a matter of time; though to undertake to secure such revision now would be a
                    Herculean task.
                        Legislation as affected by New Conditions
                    
                
            
            
            
                The State Library—Its Character and Aims
                BY W. E. HENRY, State Librarian
                THE history of the State Library at its beginning and for many years after is a rather sorry story of
                    a perfunctory institution that existed, not in response to a real demand, but because the
                    legislature had said it should. It was established in 1825 as a department of the office of
                    Secretary of State, for the purpose of furnishing information for the officers of the State when at
                    the capital—or, as the law read: for "the members of the Legislature, the secretaries and clerks of
                    each House thereof, the officers of the several branches of the executive department of the State
                    government, the judge of the United States District Court, the United States District Attorney, the
                    judges of the Supreme Court of this State, and the judges of the Circuit Courts when they or, any of
                    them may be at the seat of government." Subsequent statutes gradually broadened the scope of the
                    library and extended its privileges. In 1841 it became a separate institution and was removed from
                    the Secretary's office.
                        Historical
                    
                
                The State Library was for many years a political office. It was understood to belong to the party in
                    power, and the party majority in the legislature always elected to the office of librarian a man of
                    the right political faith. It was at once a reward for party service and an earnest of party
                    support. Men who are put into office for these reasons are not put in for special fitness, and
                    whatever fitness there might be is largely accidental. The party-chosen State librarians were,
                    presumably, not an exception to this rule; and the qualifications they possessed stood small show of
                    useful development, what with uncertain tenure of office and miserly allowance of funds.
                The latter handicap of itself would have effectually prevented the usefulness of the library however
                    capable the librarians, and as a matter of fact the library had practically no growth for the first
                    fifty years of its existence. At the end of that time the collective wisdom had got so far away from
                    the idea of the library as a political adjunct as to elect women to the office, and it should be
                    noted that these, so far as can be judged from the evidence at hand, seem to have been the first
                    incumbents to have the welfare and future of the library at heart. Sarah A. Oren (1873-5), appealed
                    for a larger  appropriation and affirmed that "the great State of
                    Indiana calls loudly for a well-filled reference library." Maggie F. Peelle (1879-'81) did a good
                    work by starting the collection of books by Indiana writers, and it was by her advice that the
                    library of the late Daniel Hough was purchased; and equal credit must be given to others.
                In 1889 Mr. J. P. Dunn became librarian and, through some seemingly miraculous influence, succeeded
                    in securing a most liberal appropriation. After two years, however, this fund was reduced and
                    remained wholly inadequate until two years ago, when the people of the State and the legislature
                    began to see the desirability of more liberal treatment. In consequence, the library now has a much
                    better outlook than at any time in its past.
                In 1895 a law was enacted removing the library from partisan politics, and its management was placed
                    in the hands of a non-partisan board—the State Board of Education. It was not to be managed as part
                    of the school system, but was so placed because this board was thought to be as clear of partisan
                    bias as any body of persons in the State, and at the same time it possessed a special degree of
                    fitness because the majority of its members were men of the highest educational qualification. This
                    board represents all parts of the State, and no person on it secures his place by virtue of
                    political or religious affiliations. It is a board the membership of which can not change rapidly,
                    and which, through political powers, cannot reward friends or punish enemies. The policy of this
                    non- partisan and ex officio board has been from the first, and is, that no person shall enter the
                    service of the library who has not special qualifications for the work.
                        Creating of Non-partisan Library Management
                    
                
                The State Library has now a collection of nearly forty thousand volumes consisting largely of
                    historical material. This is composed of sources rather than secondary matter, being made up chiefly
                    of State government publications, the publications of the United States government, and a very
                    considerable collection of local records in the way of town, county and State histories, the printed
                    archives from various States, and the histories of particular movements, institutions, sects and
                    specific organizations working toward some specific ends. It should be added that the files of
                    Indiana newpapers, particularly of the earlier years, are, I believe, fuller and more valuable than
                    exists elsewhere.
                        Size and Scope of Library
                    
                
                
                State and United States publications are received by deposit and excchange, demanding no expenditure
                    of money, so that all our purchases are in the lines of history, economics and sociology, and, as
                    before said, mostly in source material. The library especially seeks those publications which are
                    either too bulky or too expensive to be owned and preserved by private or small public libraries.
                    This makes it largely a reference library for historical purposes; yet it is now rapidly becoming
                    more than is implied in "reference" or "historical." By the provisions of a law enacted by the last
                    legislature the State Library can now lend any but rare books to any responsible citizen of the
                    State if the borrower is willing to pay transportation charges. By this plan it is enabled to
                    supplement the local library and to reach a considerable number who do not have access to any local
                    library. I hope to see the time when the State at public expense may place the book, not merely in
                    the post or express office, but in the hands of the reader. Any argument that will justify the State
                    in buying the book for the reader will equally justify delivering that book to him, whether he be
                    far or near.
                        State and U. S. Publications, how Acquired
                    
                    
                        Method of Circulating Books
                    
                
                The State Library makes every possible effort to secure all printed material that shall in any way
                    throw light upon the history or present condition of Indiana. We purchase, so far as possible, every
                    book or pamphlet ever written by an Indiana author, upon any subject; or by any author, of any time
                    or place, upon any subject relating to the State's life.
                        Special Indiana Collection
                    
                
                When we have more funds I hope to see this institution become a general reference library in all
                    departments of science and literature, so that almost any rational demand of the citizens of the
                    State, within these lines, may be supplied; and I hope to see the State ready to bear all expense to
                    put the book into the hand of the reader in whatever part of the State he may be. A larger fund,
                    however, is necessary to these conditions, and in the securing of such fund all citizens can have a
                    voice. To every citizen a great and really useful institution of this character should be a matter
                    of interest and pride. By such interest and pride you can materially help the library to grow and
                    branch out into new fields of usefulness. We bespeak your co-operation.
                        Further Aims
                    
                
            
            
            
                
                    BIBLIOGRAPHICAL: Works on Indiana History
                [The following does not aim to be a complete list of works treating of or tributary to the history of
                    Indiana. Such a bibliography would include a large amount of material of an indirect or local
                    character that does not come within the scope of the present purpose, which is to present a brief
                    account of such works as may be of use to the casual student having occasion for inquiry along these
                    lines. We have also, by way of guidance to the uninformed, indicated what we conceive to be the
                    respective values of the works considered.]
                
                    
                        PRIOR to the work of John B. Dillon, whose Historical Notes was published
                            in 1843, there was, practically, no written history of Indiana, either as a State, as an
                            American Territory, or as a French possession—excepting, of course, the documents from which
                            the orderly history was subsequently constructed. Dillon entered a virgin field with the
                            prodigious labor of a pioneer before him, and, single-handed, as it were, worked his chosen
                            part of this field so industriously and well that he still remains a leading authority upon
                            the period covered by him. His first book, Historical Notes of the Discovery
                                and Settlement of the Territory Northwest of the 
                                    Ohio
                                
                            , was merged in the History of Indiana, which appeared in 1859. The
                            title has been somewhat misleading to many unacquainted with the work, as it is almost
                            wholly devoted to the early French occupancy and the Territorial period, the narrative
                            proper ending with the admission of the State in 1816. To this is added, however, "a general
                            view of the progress of public affairs" up to 1856. In the twenty pages devoted to this is
                            condensed an amount of information that in the hands of a more verbose writer might have
                            made a small volume. Not the least valuable part of Mr. Dillon's book are the appendices of
                            Indian treaties and other documents.
                                John B. Dillon
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        In our opinion the little volume by J. P. Dunn: Indiana, a Redemption from
                                Slavery (1896), is, next to Dillon's book, the most notable contribution to
                            Indiana's historical records. Like Dillon's work it is not a history of the State, but is,
                            rather, a study of a particular phase of our earlier history—our relations to slavery.
                            Incidentally the entire French and Territorial periods are dealt with, and the subject
                            throughout added to by original research. Thorough as an investigator, taking full advantage
                            of the researches of other students, and with a keen and searching 
                                J. P. Dunn
                            
                             reasoning faculty, Mr. Dunn reveals the genius of the
                            genuine historian, and has the ability, none too common, to write history attractively
                            without imperilling his authenticity. His work as a reference book stands the test of long
                            and frequent usage.
                    
                    
                        
                            The Conquest of the Country Northwest of the River 
                                    Ohio
                                 and the Life of George Rogers Clark, two large volumes by William H.
                            English (1896), is an exhaustive study of one chapter in our earlier history. The full scope
                            of Mr. English's plan was to write a voluminous history of the State, and this work that saw
                            the light was but introductory to the larger scheme. Of the particular events with which he
                            deals the two volumes named are the most thorough study extant, and as such have a value
                            proportioned to the importance of those events. For years Mr. English was a collector of
                            rare and valuable material, and a considerable amount of this appears in the "Conquest of
                            the Northwest."
                                W. H. English
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        An illustrated history of 
                                Indiana
                             issued in 1875 under the names of De Witt C. Goodrich and Prof. Charles R.
                            Tuttle, and which, in an enlarged form, re-appeared in 1879 sponsored by Wm. S. Haymond, was
                            then the only book in the field aiming to present the later history of the State, and so,
                            perhaps, its existence was justified. It is chiefly distinguished by an overburdened
                            title-page advertising the phenomenal scope of the work. It has long since been relegated to
                            the upper shelves where it rests in an oblivion quite comprehensible to any one who seeks it
                            for historical enlightenment.
                                Goodrich & Tuttle
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        Of the "complete" works, The History of the State of 
                                    Indiana
                                 from the Earliest Explorations by the French to the Present Time, by
                            William Henry Smith (1897), is the most ambitious and the fullest. The writer unquestionably
                            possesses a wide and varied fund of information; his subject-matter, made more attractive,
                            perhaps, by arrangement into numerous topics that fairly well cover the State's story, is
                            set forth in an easy, readable style, and it will doubtless hold its place as a popular
                            history. To the more particular student, who is indisposed and who ought not to be asked to
                            take things implicitly on faith, the book is less satisfactory. Mr. Smith tells us a
                            surprising number of new things, but, unfortunately, does not at any time see fit to cite
                            authorities. The possible suspicion that he prefers a flowing and readable narrative to
                            strict  accuracy he has taken no pains to avoid, and for
                            that reason, if for no other, he will hardly be regarded as a reliable authority
                                W. H. Smith
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        The Popular History of 
                                    Indiana
                                , a compilation by various authors, but bearing the name of Mrs. T. A.
                            Hendricks as sponsor, covers the whole period of our history up to 1891, the date of
                            publication. It may be regarded as a young peoples' history, and was the first published
                            attempt in that line. For a work of its character it was a creditable product, and served
                            its purpose for a time, but is about forgotten now.
                                Mrs. Hendricks
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        The Young People's History of 
                                    Indiana
                                , by Mrs. Julia S. Conklin (1899), fills admirably the need it aims to
                            subserve. Within the compass of 375 pages it tells the story of the State's development in
                            the style of one who knows the juvenile mind and has the literary skill to appeal to it. The
                            work is conscientiously done and, on the whole, is accurate, the few mistakes in it, so far
                            as we have found, being of minor importance. For use in the school room it is the best book
                            published so far, and as a convenient reference book it is well worth a place on the library
                                shelf.
                                Julia S. Conklin
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            Stories of Indiana, by Maurice Thompson, and Young Folks'
                                Indiana, by W. H. Glascock, are juvenile books designed to awaken in the youthful
                            mind an interest in our history. The elements that best lend themselves to attractive
                            narrative are chosen, and these are presented with literary ability, making a very desirable
                            addition to our historical literature.
                                M. Thompson and W. S. Glascock
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early 
                                    Indiana
                                , by William Wesley Woollen (1883), while chiefly biographical in
                            character is yet an important contribution to the history of the State. It deals with
                            personages closely identified with the State's life, many of whom, important as were their
                            services, have no other biographer. Mr. Woollen, personally familiar for many years with men
                            and affairs in 
                                Indiana
                            , devoted long and arduous labor to collecting the material for this book, which
                            is, and will always remain the source of information touching many notable Indianians whose
                            names have all but dropped from public memory.
                                W. W. Woollen
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            The Government of the People of the State of 
                                    Indiana
                                , by W. A. Rawles (1897), and The Government of the State
                                of Indiana, by W. W. Thornton, are two small volumes dealing with the civil
                            development and the governmental machinery  of the State.
                            They are pioneer works in their line, and, if we err not in reading the signs, point the way
                            to a field where much work of a high quality and important character is going to be done. We
                            refer to historical work with a distinctively sociological bearing. Such work, indeed, is
                            already appearing, and there have recently been published two notable theses by college men
                            which show the trend of historical thought in the universities. The thoroughgoing scholar,
                            with wide knowledge of historical sources of the subject in hand, and who begrudges no pains
                            in the attempt to search out and master complex data, is revealed by both these productions,
                            and they should certainly take rank among our really valuable historical material.
                                Civil Gov't
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        The first of these, in date of publication, is The 
                                    Wabash
                                 Trade Route in the Development of the Old Northwest, by Elbert Jay
                            Benton, Fellow in History in the Johns Hopkins University, published by that university
                            early last year. In substance it is a study of the development of the Wabash valley (and
                            accompanying influences) through the medium of the Wabash river, the 
                                Wabash
                             & Erie canal, and, finally, of the railroads. He traces the effects of
                            transportation facilities upon industries and commerce, upon agriculture, upon the
                            distribution of population and urban growth. In developing his theme he probes deeper into
                            the State's great internal improvement experiment than any other writer has yet done, and
                            when that chapter of our history comes to be adequately treated Mr. Benton's pages will be
                            of considerable help. Finally, this writer invests his subject not only with interest but
                            with positive charm; and not the least mission of such literature is to promote the taste
                            for history in its sociological aspect.
                                Elbert J. Benton
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        The Centralizing Tendency in the Administration of Indiana, by Willim A.
                            Rawles, Ph. D., Assistant Professor of Economics, Indiana University, was recently published
                            by the Columbia University as one of a series of history studies that constitute part of the
                            advanced work of the university. That the study is a serious and ambitious one is indicated
                            by the length of the thesis, which consists of 322 octavo pages of actual subject matter.
                            The tendencies traced through the separate histories of a number of governmental activities
                            are an integral part of social development, and the data that indicate their true sweep are
                            many  and complex, but Professor Rawles' investigation of
                            these goes far toward proving the thesis he maintains, i. e., that centralization is really
                            a factor in progress. Aside from his argument and his conclusions his book, purely as a
                            collection of historical facts, is no small addition to our records. Education, Charities
                            and Corrections, the State and public Health, Taxation and the exercise of Police powers are
                            successively considered in their historical developments, and in each branch of inquiry a
                            valuable fund of information set forth; while in the generalization and grouping of these
                            facts to show their direction and sociological significance, the author has doubly justified
                            his labors. It is hoped that this is but a precursor of much more work of the same
                                character.
                                W. A. Rawles
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        In our reference above to the work of college men in 
                                Indiana
                             history we overlooked a thesis which antedated the two just noticed by several
                            years. This is The State Bank of Indiana, by William F. Harding, published
                            by the University of 
                                Chicago
                             in The Journal of Political Economy for December, 1895. This paper of 36 octavo
                            pages, with an appendix of about equal length, is a careful and instructive study of the
                            State's financial affairs during the life of the old State Bank, or from 1834 to 1857. To
                            say that it is a careful study of this important subject is to say that it is a real
                            acquisition to our historical literature, and as such is every way worthy to rank along with
                            the work of Mr. Benton and Mr. Rawles. If published by itself instead of being merely a
                            feature in a periodical it would, probably, come to the notice of more people and be surer
                            of a place in the library.
                                W. F. Harding
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            The Institutional Influence of the German Element of the Population in 
                                    Richmond
                                , 
                                    Indiana
                                , by Fred J. Bartel, was published within the last year as the second
                            paper of the 
                                Wayne County
                             Historical Society. This is but a pamphlet of 27 small pages, but is decidedly
                            noteworthy as representing a kind of work which, it seems to us, might easily be promoted
                            through the higher schools, and which, if so promoted, would certainly result in great gain.
                            Mr. Bartel has attempted nothing very ambitious or complex—he has simply performed a modest
                            task well. Studying at first hand the material lying about him, and chiefly, we judge, by
                            personal interviews, he has taken up one element of the population of his city and carefully
                            traced its history, its influences and its  character as
                            an integral part of the community. Mr. Bartel has done good pioneer work, and when the ideas
                            of history study now obtaining in our colleges have shifted to another view-point, students
                            from these institutions will rescue from their respective home localities data which, taken
                            collectively, will be invaluable.
                                Fred J. Bartel
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Communities, by George B. Lockwood, while a book devoted to a
                            locality, has yet a much wider interest. The romantic story of the 
                                New Harmony
                             social experiment with the galaxy of remarkable personages it drew together is
                            unique in our annals. Fuller information touching it has long been in demand, and Mr.
                            Lockwood, after long application, has recently published an extensive study that is brimful
                            of interest.
                                Geo. B. Lockwood
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        As intimated at the beginning of this list there are many works that touch the history of the
                            State in one way or another, which hardly come under our present caption. Several of these,
                            however, in addition to those noticed above, may be casually mentioned. Early
                                Indiana Trials and Sketches, by Oliver H. Smith, U. S. senator and one of the
                            State's leading lawyers in the earlier period, is an oft-quoted volume of reminiscences
                            which gives many graphic glimpses of the political and legal life of his day, as well as pen
                            portraits of contemporary notables. Recollections of the Early Settlement of
                                the Wabash-Valley
                            , by Sanford C. Cox, is another, exceedingly readable, collection of reminiscences that
                            reach back to the early twenties. The New Purchase, by Baynard R. Hall,
                            represents things in and about 
                                Bloomington
                             seventy-five years ago. Because of the fictitious and fanciful names given to
                            places and persons, which make it largely unintelligible without a key, it is now but little
                            read, and few, perhaps, know that as a circumstantial and vivid account of the life,
                            surroundings and customs of our pioneer population, few other books compare with it. Indiana Miscellany, by W. C. Smith, contains considerable interesting
                            matter of a reminiscent and anecdotal character. The History of Education in 
                                    Indiana
                                
                            , by Richard G. Boone, is the fullest study of that subject yet published. The Hoosiers, by Meredith Nicholsons, while primarily a literary study, yet deals
                            with the historical forces that have made for literature within the State. The 
                                    Indiana
                                 Historical Soc. Collection, a number of papers of exceptional value,
                            at present is two large volumes with a third in press.
                                Miscellaneous
                            
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                List of 
                        Indiana
                     Newspapers
                On File in the 
                        Indiana
                     State Library at this date
                
                    
                        American Non-Conformist, weekly, 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Jan. I, '97 to Sept. ‘98.
                    
                        American Tribune, w. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , '97 to date.
                    Anderson Weekly Democrat, June 16 '93 to Dec 28, '94.
                    Angola Herald, w. June 7 '93 to Dec. 26, '94; Jan. '97 to Dec. '98.
                    
                        
                            Auburn
                        
                        Courier, w. July 13 '93 to Dec. 27 '94; Jan. 1 '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            Auburn
                        
                        Despatch, w. May '98 to date.
                    Bloomfield Democrat, w. Jan. '88 to Dec. '94.
                    Bloomfield News, w. Jan. '93 to Dec. '94; Jan. '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            Bloomington
                        
                        Courier, w. Jan. '02 to date. 
                            Bloomington
                        
                        Post, w. Nov. 6 '35 to Sept. 8 '41.
                    
                        
                            Bloomington
                        
                        World, w. June 15 '93 to Dec 27 '94.
                    Bluffton Banner, w. June 14 '93 to '94; Jan. 1 '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            
                                Boone County
                             Pioneer, w. Lebanon, Aug. 25 '55 to July 5 '56.
                    
                        
                            Brookville
                        
                        American, w. '00 to date.
                    
                        
                            Brookville
                        
                        Democrat, w. Jan. '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            Cambridge
                        
                        Reveille, w. Jan 13, '43 to Dec. 28 '50.
                    
                        Catholic Columbian Record, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , w. '93, '94; '97 to date.
                    
                            Chesterton
                        
                        Tribune, w. '01 to date.
                    
                        
                            Columbus
                        
                        Herald, w. June '93 to Dec. '94; Jan. to Oct. '97.
                    
                        
                            Columbus
                        
                        Republican, w. '88 to '94; Jan. '97 to date.
                    
                        Daily Evening Mirror, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Nov. 25 '68 to Dec. 31 '69.
                    
                        
                            Danville
                        
                        Weekly Advertiser, July 18 '48 to Feb. 18 '51.
                    
                        
                            
                                Daviess County
                             Democrat, w. Washington, June 24 '93 to Dec. 29 '94; Jan, '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            
                                Dearborn
                             Independent, w. 
                            Lawrenceburg
                        , Jan. 4 to Dec. 19 '72.
                    Delphi Times, w. June 16 '93 to Dec. 28 '94.
                    
                        Democratic Weekly, 
                            Franklin
                        , '89, '90.
                    
                        Democrat, w. 
                            Spencer
                        , '94.
                    
                        Democratic Herald, w. Batesville, '94.
                    
                        Democratic Register, w. 
                            Lawrenceburg
                        , '72.
                    
                        Democratic Sentinel, w. 
                            Rensselaer
                        , June '93 to Dec. '94.
                    
                        
                            Denver
                        
                        Tribune, w. Jan. '02 to date.
                    English News, w. '00 to date.
                    
                        
                            Evansville
                        
                        Courier, daily, '72.
                    
                        
                            Evansville
                        
                        Journal, d. July to Dec. '71.
                    
                        
                            Fairmount
                        
                        News, w. Jan. '97 to May 23 '02.
                    
                        Farmers' and Mechanic's Journal, w. 
                            Vincennes
                        . Vol. 1, Dec. 14 '22 to Sept. 25 '23.
                    
                        
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        Sentinel, d. July to Dec. '72.
                    
                        
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        Gazette, w. '92 to '94; '97, '98.
                    
                        Fountain Warren Democrat, w. 
                            Attica
                        , '92 to '94. Jan. '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            Franklin
                        
                        Democrat, w. '92 to '94; Jan. '97 to date.
                    
                        Freeman, w. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , '92 to '94; '97 to '98.
                    
                    Gas City Weekly Journal, '97 to '98.
                    
                        
                            Goshen
                        
                        Democrat, w. June '93 to Dec. '94; Jan. '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Star-Press, w. June 17 '93 to Dec. 29 '94; Jan. '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            Greenfield
                        
                        Herald, w. June 29 '93 to Dec. 27 '94; Jan. '97 to '00.
                    
                         Hancock Democrat, w. 
                            Greenfield
                        , June 8, '93 to Dec. 27 '94.
                    
                        
                            Hartford City
                        
                        Telegram, w. Jan. '97 to date.
                    Hobart Gazette, w. Jan. '97 to date.
                    
                        Hoosier Democrat, w. 
                            Charlestown
                        , Jan. '99 to date.
                    
                        
                            
                                Howard County
                             Tribune, w. 
                            Kokomo
                        , '68; '70.
                    
                        
                            Huntington
                        
                        News, w. '93, '94; '97, '98.
                    
                        Independent Press, w. 
                            Lawrenceburg
                        , Oct. 18, '50 to Aug. 22, '51. [This paper, so far as we can learn, was the first
                        avowedly independent newspaper in the State, and is the legitimate forerunner of our modern
                        journals of that class. It was exceptionally well edited, and is one of the most interesting
                        sheets on file in the State Library.—Ed.]
                    
                        
                                Indiana
                             American, w. 
                            Brookville
                        , Dec. 29 '43 to '50; Dec. 2, '52 to Dec. 2, '54; March 2 '55 to Oct. 23 '57; Sept.
                        10 '58 to Dec. 26 '60; Aug. 17 '70 to Dec. 30 '71. Became 
                            Brookville
                         American.
                    
                        
                                Indiana
                             Centinel, w. 
                            Vincennes
                        . Vol. 3, May 22 '19 to Sept. 8 '21. Very rare.
                    
                        
                                Indiana
                             Christian Advocate, w. 
                            Indianap's
                        , May 6 '86 to Aug. 11 '88.
                    
                        
                                Indiana
                             Democrat, w. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Aug. 14 '30 to Aug. 6 '31. Became the Sentinel.
                    
                        
                                Indiana
                             Farmer, w. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Jan. '40 to Feb. '41; April '58 to March '59; '89 to '94; '97 to date.
                    
                        
                                Indiana
                             Journal of Commerce, w. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , '70, '71.
                    
                        
                                Indiana
                             Radical, w. 
                            Richmond
                        , '70.
                    
                        
                                Indiana
                             Republican, Madison. Vol. 5, Aug. 9 '21.
                    
                        
                                Indiana
                             Statesman, w. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Sept. 3 '51 to Aug. 25 '52.
                    
                        
                                Indiana
                             Statts-Zietung, w. 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Jan. to June '72.
                    
                        
                                Indiana
                             Telegraph, w. 
                            Connersville
                        , March 16 '48 to Dec. 28 '48.
                    
                        
                                Indiana
                             True Democrat, w. 
                            Centreville
                        , Feb. 6 '50 to Sept. 4 '62.
                    
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Commercial, d. '68 to '71.
                    
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Evening Gazette, d. '64; Nov. 18 '65 to June 3 '66; July 4 '66 to Dec. 28 '66.
                    
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, w. tri-w. and d. Dec. '41, 42; March '44 to March '46; Oct. '46 to
                        Dec. '54; July '56 to Dec. '58; Jan. '60 to Dec. '63; Jan. '65 to June '67; Sept. '67 to Sept.
                        '77; April '78 to date.
                    
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, d. Dec. '69 to date, except: Jan. '76 to June '76; July '77 to Dec. '77;
                        Jan. '78 to June '78.
                    
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Press, d. Dec. 13 '99 to April 16 '01.
                    
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, semi-w. and d. Semi-weekly from July '41. Daily, complete to date
                        except: April 28 '51 to March '52; May '54 to June '56; Jan, '61; Nov. '65 to June '68; June
                        '75; July '88 to Dec. '88.
                    
                    
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Times, w. July 15 '81 to March '82; July to Sept. '82; '83 to Aug. 9 '86.
                    
                        
                            Jasper
                        
                        Weekly Courier, June '93 to Dec. '94; Jan. '97 to date.
                    Kewanno Herald, w. Feb. '97 to '00.
                    
                        
                            Kokomo
                        
                        Journal, w. '70.
                    
                        
                            Kokomo
                        
                        Weekly Dispatch, June 8 '93 to Dec. 29 '94; Jan. '97 to '00.
                    
                        
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Courier, d. Jan. 1, '47 to Dec. 2 '48; '50.
                    
                        
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Journal, d. and w. Daily, April to Dec. '58; Feb. 15 '59 to '60. Weekly, Jan.
                        '50 to Dec. '51; June 10 to Dec. 30 '70; May 31 to Nov. 29, '72; '93 to '94.
                    
                        Lake Co. News, w. 
                            Hammond
                        , June 8 '93 to Dec. 27 '94; '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            
                                Lake County
                             Record, w. 
                            Hammond
                        , May 20 '93 to '94.
                    Laporte Argus, w. June 3 '93 to Dec. 27 '94; '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            Lawrenceburg
                        
                        Register, w. '71; '88 to '94; Jan. '97 to '99.
                    Lebanon Patriot, w. '97 to '01.
                    
                        
                            Ligonier
                        
                        Banner, w. June 8 '93 to Dec. 27. '94; '97 to date.
                    Linton Call, w. '00.
                    
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Journal, w. '01.
                    
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Pharos, w. Feb. 2 '48 to Feb. 28 '53; Aug 29 '55 to July 16 '56; July 13 '59
                        to May 30 '60; '66 to '68; '70 to '72; June 14 '93 to Dec. 26 '94; Jan. '97 to '99.
                    
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Reporter, w. Jan. '97 to date.
                     Madison Tribune, d. and w. Daily, April 7 '51 to Jan. 21 '52. Weekly, April
                        12 '51 to March 23 '53.
                     Madison Courier, d. and w. Jan. 7 '52 to April 5 '54; '61, 62; '66; '68;
                        '70; '88 to '94.
                    
                        Marshall Republican, w. 
                            Plymouth
                        , '01 to date.
                    
                        
                            
                                Miami County
                             Sentinel, w. Peru, '91 to '94; '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            Michigan City
                        
                        Dispatch, w. June 8 '93 to Dec. 27 '94; Jan. to Oct. '97.
                    
                        
                            Mishawaka
                        
                        Democrat, June '97 to Dec. '98.
                    
                        
                            
                                Morgan County
                             Gazette, w. 
                            Martinsville
                        , '92 to '94.
                    
                        
                            New Albany
                        
                        Commercial, d. April 4 '65 to Nov. 27 '66.
                    
                        
                            New Albany
                        
                        Daily Tribune, Sept. 22 '52 to Sept. 21, '59; March 22 to Dec. 31 '60.
                    
                        
                            New Albany
                        
                        Democrat, w. July '47 to Aug. '49.
                    
                        
                            New Albany
                        
                        Ledger, d. and w. Daily, '52, '53; '58 to '60. Weekly, Sept. 27 '47 to Aug. 30
                        '54; Dec. 20 '54 to Aug. 26 '57. Odd numbers, Aug. 29 '55 to July 16 '56.
                    
                        
                            New Albany
                        
                        Ledger Standard, d. '72.
                    
                        
                            New Harmony
                        
                        Gazette, w. Oct. 1 '25 to Oct. 22 '28. Vols. 1, 2 and 3.
                    North Judson News, w. '97 to date.
                    Parker News, w. July 7 '93 to Dec. 28 '94.
                    
                        People, The, w. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , '71, 72.
                    
                        People's Friend, w. 
                            Covington
                        , Jan. 2 '47 to Nov. 30 '50.
                    Perrysville Record, w. Jan. '97 to date.
                    Peru Republican, w. June 16 '93 to Dec. 28 '94.
                    
                        
                            Plymouth
                        
                        Democrat, w. June 15 '93 to Dec. '94; Jan. to Oct. '97.
                    
                        
                            Plymouth
                        
                        Republican, w. May '97 to '00.
                    
                    
                        Political Beacon, w. 
                            Lawrenceburg
                        , Oct. 6 '38 to Oct. 19 '39.
                    
                        Prairie Chieftain, w. 
                            Monticello
                        , Sept. 17 '50 to Sept. '54.
                    
                        Public Press, 
                            New Albany
                        , '92 to '94; '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            
                                Pulaski County
                             Democrat, w. Winamac, June '93 to Dec. '94.
                    
                        Recorder, w. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Jan. '99 to date.
                    
                        Referendum, w. Shoals, Aug. 8 '95 to Aug. 10 '99.
                    
                        Republican, Corydon, '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            Richmond
                        
                        Palladium, w. Feb. 2 '47 to Dec. '50; '89 to '94.
                    
                        Ripley Journal, w. 
                            Osgood
                        , June '93 to Dec. '94; June '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            Rockville
                        
                        Republican, w. Jan. '97 to date.
                    
                        St. Joseph Valley Register, w. 
                            South Bend
                        , Jan. 7 to Dec. 28 '48.
                    
                        
                            Salem
                        
                        Democrat, w. '90 to '94; '97 to date.
                    
                        Saturday Evening Mirror, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Feb. 29 '68 to Dec. 26 '68; April 30 '70 to Dec. 31 '71.
                    
                        Silent Hoosier, w. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Jan. 7 '92 to Dec. '94; '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            Spencer
                        
                        Democrat, w. '92, '93.
                    
                        Spirit of '76, w. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Feb. 26 to Nov. 28 '40.
                    
                        Spottvogel, w. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , '69; '71, '72.
                    
                        
                            
                                Starke County
                             Democrat, w. 
                            Knox
                        , June '93 to Dec. '94.
                    
                        State Sentinel, w. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Jan. '02 to date.
                    
                        Taglicher Telegraph, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , '67 to '72.
                    Tell City News, w. '93, '94; '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Daily Express, Aug. 25 to Oct. 3 '51; '56.
                    
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Daily Journal, Aug. '71 to '72.
                    
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Daily Union, '57.
                    
                        Union, The, w. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Oct. '77 to date.
                    
                        
                            Versailles
                        
                        Republican, w. June '97 to date.
                    
                        
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Gazette, June 15, '33 to May 30, '35; Jan. 20 '48-Dec. 26 '50.
                    
                        Wabash Atlas, w. 
                            Lafayette
                        , Aug. 24 '48 to July 27 '50.
                    
                        Wabash Courier, w. 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Jan. 1 '48 to July 5 '56.
                    
                        Wabash Express, w. 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Dec. 23 '46 to Dec. 15 '47.
                    
                        
                            
                                Washington County
                             Democrat, w. 
                            Salem
                        , Jan. '99 to June 28 '09. From Jan. to May called Salem
                        Searchlight.
                    
                    Waterloo Press, w. Jan. '97 to date.
                    
                        Weekly Journal, 
                            Lafayette
                        , Jan. '97 to date.
                    
                        Western Register and 
                                Terre Haute
                             Advertiser, w. July 21 '23 to Aug. 13 '23.
                    
                        Western Sun, w. 
                            Vincennes
                        . Vol. 1, No. 1, July 11 '07 to Feb. 4 '32; Jan. 25 '34 to Dec. 23 '43; March 6 '47
                        to Oct. 6 '49; '88 to '94; '97 to date. Earlier numbers exceedingly rare and valuable.
                    
                        
                            
                                White County
                             Democrat, w. 
                            Monticello
                        , June '93 to Dec. '94.
                    
                        
                            White River Standard, w. 
                            Bedford
                        , Dec. 21 '54 to Dec '20 '55.
                    Winamac Democrat, w. June '93 to Dec. '94.
                    Winchester Journal, w. Jan. 7 to Dec 28 '70.
                    
                        World, w. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , '92 to '94; '97 to date.
                    Worthington Times, w. and semi-w. Weekly, '92 to '94. Semi-weekly, '99 to
                        date.
                    Early Wayne Co. papers not yet catalogued. Isaac Julian collection.
                
            
            
            
                Pertinent Comment
                By the Editor
                ON THE TEACHING OF HISTORY
                
                THE course of history study prescribed for the elementary schools of Indiana, published by the
                    Department of Public Instruction in the State Manual for 1904-5, should, along with the other
                    contents of that booklet, be of interest, not only to teachers but to parents. It was prepared by a
                    committee from the History section of the State Teachers' Association—Prof. Cyrus W. Hodgin, Prof.
                    S. B. Harding, Prof. N. C. Heironimus, Supt. Adelaide S. Baylor and Supt. George H. Tapy. A brief
                    outline here of their plan is in place.
                The First Year is to be devoted almost wholly to object lessons, to story and to familiar things,
                    beginning with a study of local surroundings, both social and geographical. Indian and pioneer
                    relics may be brought to the school room and their interest enhanced by narratives of Indian and
                    pioneer life. In the study of local geography the pupil's attention is to be guided to the fact that
                    hills, forests, rivers, etc., offer advantages, and originally induced people to live in their
                    locality. Food, clothing and ways of living of both the Indians and white men are to be studied, and
                    the latter part of this year is to be given to stories of notable American pioneers.
                The Second Year begins with an introduction to other famous Americans, from George Washington to
                    Francis Key; then takes up Norse life in story form, and Norse legends and beliefs. In this
                    transition across the sea foreign children in the school, if there be such, are to be utilized in
                    bringing out the idea of foreign lands and other peoples. The larger part of the second year is to
                    be given to this. The Third Year compasses a similar study of Hebrew and Greek life and heroes, and
                    of the Greek myths. The Fourth Year takes up 
                        Rome
                    , and this year the course follows more closely the sequence of events, though still by
                    the story method. The Fifth Year injects, in a measure, philosophy into the study, and deals mainly
                    with historical personages as determined by environment and as, in turn, affecting events; the
                    period being that of the great maratime activity in European history between 1453 and 1618, the
                    French and Revolutionary wars in America, and the middle period of 
                        United States
                     history. The Sixth Year is devoted entirely to 
                        England
                    . The Seventh and Eighth Years are given to  the 
                        United States
                    . For each year a list of books is given to be used as supplementary to the course,
                    besides the suggestions as to the utilizing of relics and familiar objects, and the whole plan,
                    evidently, contemplates emancipation from the time-honored, cut-and-dried text-book that has been
                    the detestation of many a pupil.
                Introductory to the course as thus arranged by the teachers' committee is a disquisition setting
                    forth a theory of history and stating what should be the view-point and aims of the teacher of this
                    subject in the elementary schools. "History," it is said, "is the growing life of humanity. ∗ ∗ The
                    subject of history, then, is the human race and its development, and the purpose of teaching it
                    should be to lead the child to a broad view of the historic movement, so that he may see many ages,
                    many civilizations, many stages of the growth, and to be able to compare and contrast one with
                    another, and thus get a picture of all the struggles and triumphs of men in elevating humanity."
                    History, it is said, is essentially the history of institutions; the institutions of society "do not
                    exist for themselves; they are only means to an end. That end is the freedom of man." Finally,
                    biography is but subsidiary to history, and in teaching it the teacher should bear in mind that the
                    object is "not that the child may learn about isolated individual men but to see movements of
                    society through the lives of these men."
                Now, the nature and uses of history, its importance in the sum total of one's education, from which
                    end it shall be approached as a study, the psychology of its acquiring, etc., are all mooted
                    questions. Eminent scholars have discussed them searchingly. Eminent scholars, like doctors, have
                    also disagreed, and it follows that any course prescribed must be, in a measure, experimental, and
                    any theory should be propounded tentatively—certainly not as a finality, even in a system of
                    positive instruction such as teachers and pupils are supposed to be subjected to. Both course and
                    theory should expect rigid examination.
                What we shall have to say about the present Indiana course will be commendatory rather than critical.
                    It seems to us to have been the outcome of both thought and experience, and recognizes at once the
                    difficulties of creating an intelligent attitude toward history and the natural avenues to the
                    juvenile mind. Its successful application, however, depends much upon a preparation more thorough
                         than can reasonably be expected of teachers who have to deal
                    with a multitude of things, and until the branch has its special teachers as certain branches now
                    have in the larger centers, the plan of the course will be hampered. The authors of this course
                    evidently subscribe to the belief that the true educational method in history is from the known to
                    the unknown, from the familiar to the remote. Just how far this idea is adopted by the public school
                    systems of the country we do not know, but there has been and is opposition to it. The argument, in
                    brief, is that the small segment of the near and familiar is so related to antecedents that these
                    antecedents must be traced before anything like an adequate conception can be had of more immediate
                    conditions. The State is not comprehensible until led up to by a preparatory knowledge of the
                    nation; 
                        United States
                     history is meaningless unless explained by its forerunners, English and ancient
                    history. This argument, like some others that are time-honored, does not seem to be conclusive. By
                    the same parity of reasoning the antecedent histories insisted upon are meaningless unless viewed in
                    the light of more remote antecedents, and that involves us in hopelessness, because beyond all
                    recorded history lies the unrecorded ages where are buried the real roots of things that are. The
                    truth seems to be that there is no logical starting-point for historical study. The utmost we can do
                    is to fix upon a unit (whether it be a single State or all the records of the nations) that, in a
                    manner, stands complete and which, within limits, explains its own nature, as all things do by the
                    syntheses they present. We may choose an immensely large and complex unit, and feel our way, very
                    much in the dark and but dimly knowing what we are after, from the outer margin inward, or we may
                    take a unit that comes somewhat within the comprehension, and which has the very important advantage
                    of engaging the interest at the start, and, as the conception of it enlarges by study, reach out
                    farther and farther into the great sphere of causes and relations, with the lamp of ever increasing
                    enlightenment guiding the way. To us it seems that the latter is by far the more hopeful method. We
                    venture the belief that in a long and completed course the pupil by this method will gain quite as
                    broad a comprehension of history and its meanings as by the attempt to lay the broad foundation at
                    the start; while in the many instances where but limited time is given to the subject, he will, in
                    the first instance, be enlightened  just so far as he goes, while
                    in the other case he will, perhaps, have gained but a fragment of a "foundation," which will be of
                    as much use as foundations usually are without a super-structure. However, this is but our theory,
                    and maybe we are quite wrong.
                With the theory of history above quoted from the Manual we disagree, and we dissent the more
                    decidedly because it is presented, not as a discussable opinion, but as authoritative statement from
                    which, supposedly, teachers are to take their view-point and to teach accordingly. A theory which
                    aims to have so wide an influence as this, and which is helped on its way by authority, aside from
                    its intrinsic merit, certainly ought to stand close scrutiny. We do not think that this one does. In
                    its definitions of history and the aims of historical study much, it seems to us, is left out of the
                    survey. History is not alone the "growing life of humanity;" it is everything of importance that has
                    ever been recorded in the experience of man; and the aim of its study is not alone to appreciate the
                    grand spectacle of historic movements but to learn whatever of importance has happened within the
                    experience of man. Among those happenings has been decadence as well as growth—the power within
                    ourselves that made for wrong as well as the power not ourselves that makes for righteousness, and
                    to take cognizance of the diseases engendered by man in the body politic is, it may be held, of
                    quite as much importance as contemplating the more pleasing manifestations. To interpret history
                    wholly in terms of grand progressive laws, however desirable an exercise that may seem to be for the
                    school room, reminds one of Emerson's 
                        Providence
                     dressed up "in a clean shirt and white neckcloth," whereas 
                        Providence
                     in history has, to quote the sage again, "a wild, rough, incalculable road to its end,"
                    and sometimes is far from lovely. The contemplation of the historic processes is something other
                    than cultural in the literary or esthetic sense. The very center of interest, we take it, is the
                    place of man as a determining agent, and particularly as a corrective force in the great march of
                    events. To ignore this is much as if a physician should make a study of anatomy and physiological
                    functions in their ideal forms and pay no attention to the science of conserving and restoring
                    health. The decline and fall of the Roman Empire and the causes thereof have in them lessons  among the most important of all history, and on the theory that
                    man is a determining factor in his own fortunes it surely behooves him to know such lessons well.
                Again, history is but the history of institutions, says the Manual in substance. Institutions "do not
                    exist for themselves; they are only means to an end. That end is the freedom of man." Hence the
                    study of history is a study of the freeing of man. That, we fear, is more transcental than true—it
                    sounds better than it is. To say that an institution is but a means to an end (impliedly an
                    extraneous means) is analagous to the assumption, so frequently made, that work is but a means to an
                    end—which is, the enjoyment of the fruits of work. And yet those who have no work but have a
                    super-abundance of the fruits of work, as the idle rich, are among the most discontented of people.
                    We would submit as a truer proposition that work, performance, the bringing to pass, the creating of
                    new forms, is for its own sake a requirement of human existence, and that institutions, which are
                    necessary forms taken by work, represent a natural activity so incorporated with man's welfare that
                    to say they are merely means, or in any sense extraneous, is meaningless. Then as to man's
                    freedom—to what extent is that true? The mastery of man, collectively, over nature—"freeing himself
                    from the limitations of time and space," as it is put, is but a small are in the full circle of
                    freedom. With increasing obligations that come with advancing civilization the individual is shorn
                    of much of the freedom that goes with the more primitive life—the rights of others necessarily
                    become more binding. If, on the one hand, there is an advance toward political freedom, on the other
                    there is a corresponding movement not only toward social restrictions but in the direction of
                    industrial slavery. Out of the power of capital issue systems wherein the bread-earner, as never
                    before, is held like a beast in a tread-mill. Out of the power of labor organizations issue demands,
                    as never before, that seem to strike at the very roots of our ideas of freedom. In the face of all
                    this, to say that the study of history is a study of the freeing of man is somewhat
                    incomprehensible.
                Finally, exception may be taken to the Manual's theory of biography and the assertion that the great
                    personage is chiefly of interest as he is the center of a historical movement and an instrument  to elucidate that movement by. If there are streams or
                    aggregates of force there are also units of force, and it is quite permissible to hold that to the
                    unit for its own sake attaches a very keen interest. Where man is the unit this is particularly
                    true, for personality and its mysteries—the possibility of the individual, always has been and
                    always will be, in its own right, of supreme human interest. This fact remains true however much the
                    individual is carried along by the general stream, and in our daily life, wherever we come into
                    touch with a really strong personality, we realize it. Had Washington or Lincoln been stricken out
                    of their respective periods the movements in which they have figured would have gone on—history
                    would still have been made, but it would have been changed more than we can realize. In studying
                    these men biographically the influences they exerted, the qualities they revealed, the native power
                    residing within them that welled up under the stress of circumstances, is the very center of
                    interest, and the attempt to transfer that interest to something, however large, outside of them,
                    is, it seems to us, to wholly misapprehend the real character of biography as distinguished from
                    history proper. It is Carlyle, we believe, who somewhere speaks of man as "the most interesting
                    little fellow on the planet," and Carlyle is not yet quite out of court, though some of us at the
                    present day like to lose ourselves in the immensity of the universal.
                An Old-Time Pleasantry
                
                    He:
                
                How comes it, this delightful weather, That U and I can't dine together?
                
                    She:
                
                My worthy friend, it cannot be— U cannot come till after T.
            
            
            
                
                    LITERARY: The Secession of Dixie
                A Story
                THE "Secession of Dixie" may be taken as story or as history—just as you choose
                    about that. On this point I will merely say I have read some history that was
                    further from fact—and in that I commit myself to nothing.
                "Dixie," indeed, is no myth. From the well-tilled fields now occupying its site you may see the smoke
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and even, when that smoke permits, discern the great Soldiers' Monument which so
                    majestically commemorates the Union that Dixie wanted to draw out of. I can remember when those
                    fields (just a quarter-section in extent) were covered by a wilderness so dense that one who entered
                    there was glad to avail himself of narrow winding paths that threaded the place, Indian trail
                    fashion. These paths led to little log cabins here and there, surrounded by as many scant cleared
                    spaces devoted in a rude way to garden truck, and occupied by uncouth, half-clad people.
                This ground, so runs the tradition, had at an early day been entered by one John Pogue, a Virginian,
                    who, for some reason, let it remain in its primitive condition while the country around was
                    improved. Then when the Rebellion broke out he hied himself elsewhere; his land was promptly
                    confiscated as the property of an enemy, and once more it became government territory. Then came the
                    squatters—the poor folk who are looking for land to live on without money and without price. A Mr.
                    Jabez Baughman took the initiative, and others promptly followed; the government was too much
                    occupied with weightier affairs, just then, to care much about it, and ere long a score or so of
                    families had established themselves here in as many little openings, making a small community, quite
                    cut off from the rest of the world. Quite cut off, I say, because something other than mere walls of
                    woodland isolated them. They were, without exception, Southerners, of the kind known as "poor white
                    trash"—victims of the vicious labor system of the South, haters of "niggers," and yet with a warm,
                    unreasoning loyalty for their native States that had done so little for them and their kind.
                    Alienated from their neighbors thus by sentiment it is no wonder, then, that when so excellent an
                    opportunity offered they should segregate into a neighborhood of their own, and it was because  of the character of this settlement and the former "secesh"
                    owner that the place came to be known as "Dixie". And by this opportunity the squatters found
                    themselves very happily situated, for while the "butternuts" hereabout as a rule had to sing small
                    and carry their sentiments up the sleeve, these could congregate and express themselves as often and
                    freely as they chose with none to make afraid. Stray newspapers carried in like bones into a den to
                    be feasted on at leisure, passed from hand to hand and so kept them apprised of the doings of the
                    outside world. When, in the course of time, the fierce war tide lashed to and fro like the swing of
                    an angry sea, and the rebellious murmurings of disaffected Northerners grew more pronounced, Dixie
                    plucked up hope and began to dream of a day when the chivalry from the southland would sweep the
                    country like a besom. Then suddenly, borne on the wings of excited rumor, came the report that the
                    dashing John Morgan and his gallant battalions were actually bound hither like gay-hearted knights
                    on a holiday jaunt. The secret order of the Sons of Liberty, rumor further hinted, would burst its
                    chrysalis and come forth boldly to the light; the order of things would be all changed. There was
                    excitement in the air. The whole State set to buzzing like a vast hornet's nest, there was a swift
                    gathering of the clans, and on all sides was the busy notes of preparation for conflict. Something
                    was going to happen.
                And now one day Mr. Jabez Baughman "issued a call" for all Dixieites to convene at his cabin that
                    evening to discuss questions of moment. Of the resultant meeting no minutes were preserved; you will
                    find no mention of it in the Adjutant-General's reports, nor elsewhere, and the only authority I can
                    claim for it is the oral account of Mr. Andrew Jackson Strickler, a "member of the convention," who
                    afterward became reconstructed and reconciled to the Government. As faithfully as I can quote him
                    here he is, Tennesee dialect and all:
                "It was," said Mr. Strickler, "in July of '63. I disremember adzactly the date, but it was after the
                    hayin' was done an' the wheat harvest about over. We heerd tell o' John Morgan crossin' the river
                    an' headin' our way, an' was consid'ble intrusted like, an' so w'en Jabe Baughman's boys went eroun'
                    the settlement tellin' all the men folks their pap wanted us to meet at their house late that night,
                    we jest natchally fell in with it, kase we knowed from  the sly
                    way it 'as done thar was somepin' up. None of us was to come till after ord'nary bed-time, an' none
                    of us was to carry 'ary light, an' that putt ginger in it, y' see. Well, w'en night fell the the
                    weather got ugly, and I mind way about ten o'clock, as I felt my way through the thickets, how
                    everlastin' black it was, an' how the wind rasseled the trees erbout, roarin' like a hongry lion
                    seekin' who he may devour. It made me feel kind 'o creepy, kase it 'peared like the elerments an'
                    man an' everthing was erbout to do somepin'—kinder like the bottom was goin' to drap out 'o things,
                    y'understand.
                "Well, the fellers come steerin' into Jabes' one by one, an' by 'leven o' the clock ever' man in
                    Dixie was thar. Jabe's young'uns an' womern folks hed been sent out in the stable to sleep, an' so
                    ever'thing was clear fer business, but we all set eround talkin' hogs fer a spell, kase we felt a
                    mite unsartin; but byme-by Baughman, says he: ‘Gen'l'men, I call this yere meetin' to order.' Then
                    my oldest boy, whose name was Andy, too, and who'd been to two or three public meetin's before an'
                    felt kind o' biggoty over it, he hollers out: ‘I second the motion.' Then young Jerry Stimson says:
                    ‘I move that Mr. Baughman take the cheer,' an' my boy seconded that, too, an' it was so ordered.
                    Then Baughman riz an' said he hadn't hardly expected that honor (w'ich was a lie), but sence they
                    had putt it on him he'd try to discharge his duties to the meetin'.
                "After that we made young Stimson secatary, seein' he was somepin' of a scholard, an' then Jabe he
                    made us a speech sayin' as how we'd orto stick by the grand old South, w'at was even now sendin' her
                    conquerin' hosts to our doors, an' how we'uns should be ready to receive her to our buzzums. It
                    wa'nt all quite clear to me, an' I ast how we was goin' to take her to our buzzums. 'W'y, give her
                    our moral s'port,' says Jabe. ‘How'll we give our moral s'port, says I,' an' then says Jabe, slow
                    an' solemn like: ‘Gen'l'men,' says he, ‘w'en our sister States found it was time fer 'em to be up
                    an' adoin'—w'en they found the Union wa'nt the place fer 'em, w'at did they do?.' Here Jabe helt his
                    fire, an' ever'thing was stock-still fer a spell, w'ile the wind howled outside. It 'peared like no
                    one hadn't the grit to tackle the question, an' Jabe had to do it hisself. ‘Gen'l'men,' says he, air
                    we men enough to run risks for our kentry? W'en John Morgan's histed the flag of the grand ol'
                    Confedercy over the Injeany State House who's goin' to come to their reward, them as helt back
                    skeert, or them as give him their moral s'port?
                
                At this my boy Andy, who was gittin' all het up like with the idee o' doin' somepin', bellers out:
                    ‘Mr. Cheerman, I move 'at we air all men, an' 'at we ain't afeerd to give the South our moral
                    s'port.' Then Jabe grabbed the cow by the tail an' w'ipped her up. ‘Do I understand the gen'l'man to
                    mean,' says he, that we'd orto do w'at our sister States hev done, an' draw out o' this yere Union,
                    an' ef so, will he putt a movement to that effeck before the house?.
                "I make a move then,' says Andy agen, as bold as Davy Crockett, 'that we don't w'ip the devil eround
                    the stump no more, but that we git out o' the Union an' we git out a-flyin.' I was right proud o'
                    the boy, not kase I thought he had a durn bit o' sense, but kase he went at it with his coat off
                    like a man bound to make his mark. That got all of us spunky like, an' nigh ever one in the house
                    seconded the move. Then says Jabe: 'Gen'l'men, the question is before you, whether we will lend the
                    Southern Confeder'cy our moral s'port an' foller our sister States out'n the Union. All in favor of
                    this yere motion signify the same by sayin' aye'. ‘Aye!' says ever livin' soul with a whoop, fer by
                    that time we shore was all runnin' in a flock. 'All contrarywise say no,' says Jabe, an' we all
                    waited quiet fer a minute, kase that 'as the proper way, y' know, w'en all of a suddent, above the
                    roar o' the wind outside, thar was a screech an' a tremenjus racket; the ol' house shuck like it was
                    comin' down; the daubin' flew from the chinks, an' overhead it 'peared like the ol' Scratch was
                    clawin' his way through the clabboards. Next he come a-tearin' at the floor of the loft above us,
                    an' a loose board swingin' down hit Jabe a whack an' knocked the candle off'n the table, an' the
                    next thing it was black as yer hat. Jabe, I reckon, was consid'able flustered, kase he gethered
                    hisself up an' yelled: 'The Devil's after us—git out o' here, fellers!' An' you bet we got.
                
                    "It tuck me a full hour to find my way home through the bresh, an' w'en I did git thar, at last,
                        an' was tryin' to tell w'ich side o' the house the door was on, I bumped up agin Andy groopin'
                        his way too. 'Andy,' says I, ‘I move we git in jest as quick as the Lord'll let us,' an' says
                        Andy, ‘I second the motion'.
                    "The next day w'en we went back to Baughman's to see w'at we cu'd larn we found a good-sized
                        ellum had keeled over agin the roof-poles an' poked a limb down through the clabboards. It 'as
                        never settled among us jest w'at it meant. Some said it 'as the Lord's way of votin' no agin our
                        goin' out o' the Union, an' others allowed it was the Lord's way o' savin' us from our
                        brashness, kase, as ever one knows, John Morgan didn't git to Injunoplis after all, an' as
                        things turned out it wa'nt jest best fer us to be seceded, y' know."
                    —G. S. C.
                    
                
            
            
            
                Two Graphic Hoosier Pictures
                [The two pictures here poetically presented of the Hoosier pioneer home are so akin that we thus
                    reprint them as a pair. The "Hoosier's Nest," by John Finley, for many years the mayor of 
                        Richmond
                    , was, perhaps, the first Indiana poem to win fame, and it is further distinguished by
                    its introduction of the term "Hoosier" into literature. It was first published in 1833 (not in 1830,
                    as commonly stated), according to Mr. J. P. Dunn, as a Carrier s Address for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, and after some revision by the author, became fixed in the form from
                    which we here quote. The other, untitled poem, from a far more famous poet, James Whitcomb Riley, is
                    practically unknown and is not to be found in any of the author's books. It was read before an old
                    settler's meeting at Oaklandon, in 1878, and is reported in full in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel for August 5th (or 6th). Both the poems are considerably longer than here
                    given, and take a wider range than the theme of the cabin home].
                The Hoosier's Nest
                
                    I'M told, in riding somewhere West, A stranger found a
                    Hoosier's Nest, In other words, a buckeye cabin, Just big enough to hide Queen Mab in. Its
                    situation, low but airy, Was on the borders of a prairie; And, fearing he might be benighted, He
                    hailed the house, and then alighted. The Hoosier met him at the door. Their salutations soon were
                    o'er; He took the stranger's horse aside And to a sturdy sapling tied. Then, having stripped the
                    saddle off, He fed him in a sugar-trough.
                The stranger stooped to enter in, The entrance closing with a pin. And manifested strong desire To
                    seat him by the log-heap fire, Where half-a-dozen Hoosieroons, With mush and milk, tin-cups and
                    spoons, White heads, bare feet and dirty faces, Seemed much inclined to keep their places; But
                    madam, anxious to display Her rough but undisputed sway, Her off-spring to the ladder led, And
                    cuffed the youngsters up to bed.
                
                Invited shortly to partake Of venison, milk and Johnny-cake, The stranger made a hearty meal, And
                    glances 'round the room would steal. One side was lined with divers garments, The other spread with
                    skins of varmints; Dried pumpkins over-head were strung, Where venison hams in plenty hung; Two
                    rifles placed above the door, Three dogs lay stretched upon the floor, In short, the domicile was
                    rife. With specimens of Hoosier life.
                The host, who centered his affections On game and range and quarter-sections, Discoursed his weary
                    guest for hours, Till Somnus' all-composing powers Of sublunary cares bereft 'em, And then I came
                    away and left them. No matter how the story ended; The application I intended Is from the famous
                    Scottish poet, Who seemed to feel as well as know it That burly chiels and clever hizzies Are bred
                    in sic a way as this is.
                Mr. Riley's Poem
                [This poem, we find, is in the Sentinel of Aug. 4, 1878.
                O'ER the vision like a mirage falls The old log cabin with its dingy walls And
                    crippled chimney, with the crutch-like prop Beneath a sagging shoulder at the top; The coon skin,
                    battened fast on either side; The wisps of leaf tobacco, "cut and dried"; The yellow strands of
                    quartered apples hung In rich festoons that tangle in among The morning-glory vines that clamber
                    o'er The little clapboard roof above the door; The old well-sweep, that drops a courtesy To every
                    thirsty soul so graciously The stranger, as he drains the dripping gourd, Intuitively murmurs:
                    "Thank the Lord!" Again, through mists of memory, arise The simple scenes of home before the eyes;
                
                The happy mother humming, with her wheel, The dear old melodies that used to steal So drowsily upon
                    the summer air The house-dog hid his bone, forgot his care. And nestled at her feet, to dream,
                    perchance, Some cooling dream of winter-time romance; The square of sunshine thro' the open door,
                    That notched its way across the puncheon floor, And made a golden coverlet whereon The god of
                    slumber had a picture drawn Of babyhood, in all the loveliness Of dimpled cheek and limb and linsey
                    dress; The bough-filled fireplace and the mantel wide; The fire-scorched ankles stretched on either
                    side, Where, perched upon its shoulders ‘neath the joist, The old clock hiccoughed, harsh and
                    husky-voiced, And snarled the premonition, dire and dread, When it should hammer time upon the head;
                    Tomatoes, red and yellow, in a row, Preserved not then for diet, but for show, Like rare and
                    precious jewels in the rough, Whose worth was not appraised at half enough; The jars of Jelly with
                    their dusty tops; The bunch of pennyroyal, the cordial drops; The flask of camphor, and the vial of
                    squills; The box of buttons, garden seeds and pills; And, ending all the mantel's bric-a-brac, The
                    old, time-honored "family almanack."
                And memory, with a mother's touch of love, Climbs with us to the dusky loft above; ∗ ∗ ∗ ∗ ∗ ∗ ∗
                    Again we stretch our limbs upon the bed, Where first our simple, childish prayers were said, And,
                    while without the merry cricket trills A challenge to the solemn whippoorwills, And, filing on the
                    chorus with his glee, The katydid whets all the harmony To feather-edg of incoherent song, We drop
                    asleep, and peacefully along The current of our dreams we glide away To that dim harbor of another
                    day, Where brown Toil waits us, and where Labor stands To welcome us with rough and horny hands.
            
        
        
            
            
        
    
