
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 44, Issue 2, pages 125-226. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:44+issue:2+year:1948&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            British Public Opinion and the Rupture of Anglo-Swedish Relations in 1717
            
                    John J. Murray
                    ∗
                
            Drums pealed and trumpets sounded. Before the gate of St. James's and at four other places
                    in the city of 
                        London
                    , it was announced "that the High and Mighty Prince George, Elector of
                    Brunswick-Lunenburg, is now, by the Death of our Late Sovereign, of Happy Memory, become our Only
                    Lawful and Rightful Liege Lord, George, by the Grace of God, King of Great Britain."1 The crowds in the city and in other parts of 
                        England
                     appeared happy at the news and were relieved that the Protestant succession had been
                    accomplished without bloodshed. At York, Lady Mary Wortley Montagu listened to the proclamation and
                    saw the event welcomed with "ringing of bells, bonfires, and illuminations; the mob crying,
                    Liberty and property! and Long live King George!"2 On that day of
                    August 1,1714, a new era of English history began which was to have vast constitutional and
                    political results at home and marked diplomatic repercussions abroad.
            George I as an elector of the Empire shared the expansionist ideas of petty eighteenth-century German
                    princes. For some time he had toyed with the possibility of adding the Swedish possessions of 
                        Bremen
                     and Verden to his electoral domains. Charles XII of Sweden, engaged in the Great
                    Northern War, a titanic struggle which since 1700 had pitted him 
                  
                     ∗ Dr. John J. Murray is an assistant professor of history
                            at Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. This paper was read at the Indiana History Teachers Association
                            session at the Twenty-ninth Annual Indiana History Conference at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, on December 13, 1947.
                  
                     1 Abel Boyer, The Political State of Great Britain
                            (38 vols., 
                                London
                            . 1711-1740). VIII (1714), 116.
                  
                     2 Lady Mary W. Montagu to E. W. Montagu 1714, printed in The Letters and Works of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, edited by Lord Wharncliffe (3
                            vols., 
                                London
                            , 1837), 1, 209.
               
                     against 
                  Denmark,
                            Poland
               -Saxony, and Russia, was in no position to
                    oppose the elector made king, especially if the latter could employ British gold and ships to pull
                    his Hanoverian chestnuts out of Europe's Baltic fires. The chief stumbling block for George
                    was the Act of Settlement, the very thing to which he owed his accession to the English throne. That
                    piece of legislation specifically and categorically stated "that in case the Crown and
                    imperial dignity of this realm shall hereafter come to any person not being a native of this kingdom
                    of 
                        England
                    , this nation be not obliged to engage in any war for the defence of any dominions or
                    territories which do not belong to the Crown of 
                        England
                     without the consent of Parliament."3 It would, therefore,
                    be necessary for George to win his English subjects over to an anti-Swedish policy if the greed of
                    the elector-king were to be satiated. The attitudes of the English towards Sweden and her enemies
                    would have to be carefully studied by the Hanoverian advisers who had accompanied George to 
                        England
                    .
            It was true that the British of all classes had little love for the Swedes. In fact their feelings
                    towards their Scandinavian neighbors often bordered on contempt. Insular self-satisfaction and
                    provincialism, however, characterized the eighteenth-century Englishman in his relationship to all
                        foreigners,4 and there were many in Britain who were ever ready to remind
                    the German king that he had not sprung from English soil. On the other hand, the inhabitants of
                    George's new kingdom could not be classed as isolationists, for many watched events on the
                    continent closely, and gloried in the fact that William and Anne had been arbiters of Europe. A
                    goodly sprinkling of Whig leaders was interested in reviving the favored diplomatic position that 
                        England
                     had enjoyed during the two previous reigns. Others wanted to go to war with 
                        France
                    .5 It was not until 1721 when the bursting of the South Sea Bubble
                    floated Robert Walpole into power, that the "little Englanders" among the Whigs
                    gained control of Britain's foreign policy.
            
               
                  3 Extract of an Act, 12 & 13 W. III, cap. 2, mc. III, in Calendar of State Papers, Domestio Series, of the Reign of William III, 1 April
                            1700-8 March, 1702, edited by Edward Bateson (
                            London
                        , 1937), 481.
               
                  4 Basil Williams, The Whig Supremacy, 171-4-1760 (
                            Oxford
                        , 1939), 1.
               
                  5 Wolfgang Michael, 
                     
                                England
                             Under George I (2 vols., 
                            London
                        , 1936, 1939), Beginnings of the Hanoverian Dynasty, I,
                    249.
            
            
            The ideas and the sentiments of the English regarding northern and northeastern Europe were fixed and
                    definite, but as is so often the case, they were based upon a relatively small amount of
                    information. Two books on 
                        Denmark
                     and Sweden crystallized English thought regarding those two countries for almost the
                    entire eighteenth century. Written in 1694 by former envoys to 
                        Denmark
                     and Sweden, the Account of 
                            Denmark
                        
                by Robert, Lord Molesworth, and the Account of Sueden by
                    John Robinson wielded a tremendous influence. The former publication went through three editions in
                    an equal number of months.6 It was published anonymously, the author fearing the
                    wrath of the future Queen Anne, whose husband George was a Danish prince. Neither the work by
                    Molesworth nor the one by Robinson presented a completely accurate picture, but as is so often true
                    in history, what people erroneously think to be true, is at a given time apt to be more influential
                    upon the subsequent course of events than is the truth itself.
            Danish and Swedish absolutism received a severe castigation at the hands of the British press.
                    Molesworth, Robinson, and other writers on northern European affairs failed to realize that the
                    tyranny of the crown was easier for the majority cf people to bear than was the oppressive yoke of
                    the nobility.7 For example William Benson in A Letter to Sir J
                    — B — (1711) considered Count Johann Patkul, one of the
                    worst exponents of a theory held by the nobles in Swedish Livonia that they should be completely
                    unfettered in their dealing with the peasantry, as "Brave Patkul (that
                    noble foreign Whig, who took up Arms for the Liberty of his Country)."8 The arbitrary taxes levied by the crowns of 
                        Denmark
                     and Sweden received their share of censure, and the impoverishment of the nobility was
                    deplored. Governmental interference and the policies of the monarchs were considered to be the sole
                    causes of Scandinavian poverty rather than the long series of exhaustive wars, which had carried in
                    their wake the usual aftermath of hard times. The result was that the men in 
                        England
                     who were wont to shout "Liberty and 
                  
                     6 [John Robinson], An Account of Sueden (
                                London
                            , 1694), i.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 102, 116; [Robert, Lord Molesworth], An Account of 
                                    Denmark
                                 as it was in the Year 1692 (
                                London
                            , 1694), xlvi-xlix; [William Benson], A Letter to Sir J
                                —B — (
                                London
                            , 1711), 18.
                  
                     8 [Benson], A Letter to Sir J— B—, 21.
               
                     Property" were appalled when they heard about
                    conditions in 
                        Denmark
                     and Sweden.
            Whig sensibilities were further infuriated because the representative bodies in Scandinavia, the
                    Estates, no longer had a dominant voice in the government.9 Gentry in both 
                        Denmark
                     and Sweden had lost wealth, land, prestige, and political power. Thus the very
                    foundations of the Whig state in 
                        England
                     had been eradicated in northern Europe. No wonder that the indignant Molesworth warned
                    his countrymen that "Slavery, like a sickly Constitution, grows in time so habitual that it
                    seems No burden nor Disease; it creates a kind of Laziness and idle Despondency, which puts Men
                    beyond hopes and fears."10
            
            The preponderance of political strength residing in the church11 and in the
                        army12 was also anathema to English "authorities" on
                    northern Europe. The Erastian Lutheran church had considerable political influence in both 
                        Denmark
                     and Sweden, a state of affairs which must have been quite distasteful to many English
                    low-churchmen and to almost all dissenters. The Scandinavian practice of quartering soldiers upon
                    the population was contrary to the Petition of Right and the Declaration of Right, documents dear to
                    the heart of Whig 
                        England
                    . Moreover, the espousal of the idea of divine right b) Scandinavian clergymen did
                    little to raise them in the esteem of British pamphleteers.
            Robinson has left many descriptions of the Swedish people, some of which still exist in part as
                    generalizations among the English-speaking peoples when they discuss Sweden and the Swedes. For
                    example, the Swedish people had vigorous constitutions, which accounted for their excellency as
                    soldiers, and fitted them more for camp life than for intellectual pursuits. The cold climate of the
                    North froze the minds of the Swedish people in such a manner that they were seldom found
                    "endued with any eminent share of Vivacity or Pregnancy of Wit." They were
                    "Grave even to Formality; Sober, more out of necessity, than Principles of
                        temperance."13 These caricatures 
                  
                     9 [Robinson], An Account of Sueden, 116;
                            [Molesworth], An Account of 
                                    Denmark
                                
                     , xlvi-xlvii.
                  
                     10 [Molesworth], An Account of 
                                    Denmark
                                
                     , 75.
                  
                     11 [Robinson], An Account of Sueden, 111-112;
                            [Molesworth], An Account of 
                                    Denmark
                                
                     , 258-259; [Benson], A Letter to Sir J —
                                B—, 4.
                  
                     12 [Molesworth], An Account of 
                                    Denmark
                                
                     , 123, 125; [Robinson], An Account of Sueden, 126ff.
                  
                     13 [Robinson], An Account of Sueden, 45-52.
               
                     of Robinson are the forerunners of the "dumb"
                    and "stolid" Swedes of today. As for the women, they were "accounted more
                    eminent for Chastity before Marriage, than Fidelity after,"14
                    Generalizations as to the promiscuity of Swedish womanhood are also in current use.
            The saving grace of Sweden so far as the British were concerned was the bias maintained by her
                    monarch towards 
                        France
                     and the French.15 It was the mutual distrust of Louis XIV and 
                        Versailles
                     that was to arrange 
                        England
                     on the side of Sweden in the early stages of the Great Northern War. Conversely, there
                    was much anti-Danish sentiment in 
                        England
                     at the turn of the eighteenth century because the Danish court was pro-French and her
                    people aped French clothing, customs, and manners.16 Notwithstanding that some
                    British pamphleteers17 striving for the favor of Prince George, poured out
                    apologies for the Danish system, the majority of Englishmen accepted the verdicts of Molesworth and
                    ignored the fact that a diplomat whose mission to 
                        Denmark
                     had failed ignominiously18 might be colored in his opinions
                    concerning that country.
            
               
                        Poland
                     in contrast to 
                        Denmark
                     and Sweden had too much liberty for the ordinary English gentry and citizenry to
                    stomach. Daniel Defoe, who before the outbreak of the Great Northern War was an admirer of the
                    Polish king, Augustus, blamed the Polish Diet for that country's many ills.19 An anonymous pamphlet entitled The Ancient and Present State of 
                            Poland
                        
                (1697) rightly asserted that the nobles had a life and death power over the
                    inhabitants who were treated like slaves.20 Jordocus Crull, while attempting
                        
                  
                     14
                            id., 70.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 75.
                  
                     16 [Molesworth], An Account of 
                                    Denmark
                                
                     , xlvi-xlvii.
                  
                     17 [Jordocus Crull], 
                        
                                    Denmark
                                 Vindicated (
                                London
                            , 1694); [William King], Animadversions on a Pretended Account of 
                                    Denmark
                                
                      (
                                London
                            , 1694); and the anonymous Déffense du Danemark
                            (Cologne, 1696), are some of the pamphlets written in answer to that of Molesworth.
                  
                     18 Thomas Seccombe, "Molesworth, Robert, first
                            Viscount," Dictionary of National Biography (62 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1885-1900), XXXVIII (1894), 121-123. There are some errors in the Dictionary of National Biography, which states that he terminated his mission in
                            1694 rather than in 1692. See James F. Chance (ed.), British Diplomatic
                                Instructions, 1689-1789… 
                                    Denmark
                                
                     , in Royal Historical Society Publications (Camden
                            Third Series, 
                                London
                            , 1900-), XXXVI (1926), 1.
                  
                     19 [Daniel Defoe], The Dyet of 
                                    Poland
                                . A Satyr (
                                London
                            , 1705), 36.
                  
                     20 Anonymous, The Ancient and present State of 
                                    Poland
                                , giving a short but accurate Account of the Scituation in that Country (
                                London
                            , 1697), 3-4.
               
                     to vindicate 
                        Denmark
                    , drew examples from Polish affairs to place Danish absolutism in a better light; and
                    charged that the liberum veto was the curse of 
                        Poland
                    . According to Crull, "too much liberty is frequently the Spring of fatal
                    Diseases in the Government."21
            
            Russia, usually referred to by British writers as Muscovy, was as great an enigma to western Europe
                    in the eighteenth century as it is in the twentieth. Muscovite restrictions on travel to and from
                    Russia gave Englishmen little opportunity to gain information about the Muscovites and their
                        customs.22 It was not until 1692 after the advent of Peter the Great to the
                    throne that the "iron curtain" was lifted. Daniel Defoe, that pamphleteer
                    par-excellence, claimed that the freeing of Russia's intellectual shackles was one of
                    Peter's greatest accomplishments.23
            
            The "self-styled author of the True-Born English Man" gloried
                    that Russia had built an excellent fleet through the efforts of English and Dutch artisans, and he
                    paid St. Petersburg one of the finest tributes that could be made any city by an eighteenth-century
                    Englishman; namely, that it began "to look like our Portsmouth."24 Defoe, however, sounded a note of warning, which more and more Englishmen took to heart as
                    the Great Northern War progressed and as Russian victories made the balance of power in the North
                    more onesided. As Defoe cautioned, the vast and incredible advancement of the Russians "may
                    serve to remind us, how we once taught the French to build ships, till they are grown able to teach
                    us how to use them."25
            
            The dread that Russia might supplant Sweden and become the single Baltic power spread in 
                        England
                    . It was definitely noticeable after the Russian victory over the Swedes at Poltava in
                    1709. It achieved major proportions after 1716. The brutality of the Russian soldiers in occupied
                    territory and the arbitrary government of Peter did little to allay British fears and sensibilities.
                    The fact that Peter in 
                  
                     21 [Crull], 
                        
                                    Denmark
                                 Vindicated, 6.
                  
                     22 [Molesworth], An Amount of 
                                    Denmark
                                
                     , xxxv-xxxvi; [Daniel Defoe], An Impartial History of the
                                Life and Actions of Peter Alexowitz (
                                London
                            , 1723), 6.
                  
                     23 [Defoe], Peter Alexowitz, 3.
                  
                     24 [Daniel Defoe], The Consolidator. or, Memoirs of
                                Sundry Transactions from the World in the Moon (
                                London
                            , 1705), 2.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., 3.
               
                     1699 had talked about peace while preparing for a sneak attack
                    upon Sweden did not enhance Russian diplomacy in the eyes of the English, and according to Defoe
                    rendered "the Character of those who had made those Protestations sufficiently contemptible
                    to all the Christian Princes of Europe."26
            
            George, then about to ally his Hanoverian electorate with Sweden's enemies, faced a country
                    whose proclivities in general were on the opposite side from his own. Moreover, many Englishmen were
                    uneasy about the acquisition by 
                        Hanover
                     of 
                        Bremen
                     and Verden.27 Such misgivings were augmented by Tory pamphleteers.
                    Count Karl Gyllenborg, the Swedish minister at 
                        London
                    , who was no mean penman himself, more than once reminded George by diplomatic note and
                    through the press that 
                        Hanover
                    's attempts to embroil 
                        England
                     with Sweden were contrary to the Act of Settlement. A rumor persisted in 
                        England
                     that George would use 
                        Bremen
                     and Verden as a base to embark German troops for 
                        England
                    .28 Thus Britons would be deprived of their hard-won liberties.
                    Government spokesmen on the other hand argued that trade advantages would accrue to 
                        England
                     if the elector gained the desired Swedish possessions.
            By appealing to English mercantile sentiments, it was possible for the Hanoverians to drum up British
                    aid for George's Baltic policy. So far as Scandinavia was concerned, there was unanimity of
                    opinion in 
                        England
                     on matters of trade and commerce. For years British trade pamphleteers had pointed out
                    that Britain's Baltic trade violated most mercantilist principles, principles dear to the
                    hearts of eighteenth century English traders.29 Sweden's monopolies in
                    iron, copper, and naval stores were especially obnoxious to English 
                  
                     26 [Daniel Defoe], The History of the Wars of his Present
                                Majesty Charles XII, King of Sweden (
                                London
                            , 1715), 55.
                  
                     27 Croissy Instructions, Recueil des instructions
                                donneés aux ambassadeurs et ministres de 
                                    France
                                 depuis les traités de Westphalie jusqu'a la
                                révolution francaise: Suède (25 vols., 1884-1929), II (1885),
                            270; Count Karl Gyllenborg to Count Erik Sparre, June 11, 1715, Handlingar
                                rörande Skandinaviens Historia (40 vols., Stockholm, 1831-1898), X
                            (1882), 334.
                  
                     28 Gyllenborg to Sparre, June 11, 1715, Handlingar,
                            X, 334.
                  
                     29 The number of pamphlets on trade is large. Sir Charles
                            d'Avenant, William Wood, Sir Josiah Child, Joshua Gee, Sir William Temple, Onslow
                            Burrish, and Daniel Defoe are some of the writers on Baltic trade and commerce. For a fuller
                            account of trade Pamphleteers see John J. Murray, "Baltic Commerce and Power
                            Politics," The 
                                    Huntington
                                 Library Quarterly (
                        San Marino,
                                    California
                     , 1937-), VI
                            (1942-1943), 293-312.
               
                     economists, not only because they were at odds with the theory
                    of mercantilism, but also because of the high-handed manner in which they were
                        enforced."30 Swedish commercial restrictions upset the balance of
                    trade, and in English eyes sinned against the bullionist doctrines of the time. By reserving the
                    carrying trade of the monopolized products to themselves, Swedish merchants committed heresy against
                    the power objectives of British mercantilism.
            Sweden's trading tactics then presented George with an excellent opening wedge, which could
                    be employed to force a breach between 
                        England
                     and Sweden. English commercial grievances were such that they might be manipulated to
                    heighten English animosity towards Sweden. Throughout the war of the Spanish Succession, it had been
                    increasingly difficult for the Admiralty to procure naval stores, dependent as it was for supply
                    upon the Baltic, along whose shores the Great Northern War raged. Sudden changes in policy by
                    Swedish diplomatists and economists often placed the Royal navy in a precarious position.31 Attempts had been made through bounties to foster naval store manufacturing
                    in the American colonies, but to no avail.32 The needs of the fleet for the
                    first half of the eighteenth century continued to be filled by Baltic forest products, needs which
                    became greater as the wars in northern and western Europe continued and after Russian arms captured
                    Swedish possessions in 
                        Finland
                     and in the Baltic provinces.
            With the loss of 'chose lands to Peter's troops, Charles XII resolved that no one
                    should profit from his own misfortunes, and subsequently forbade all neutral nations from trading
                    with Swedish possessions in Russian hands. Swedish privateers and naval units straightway began to
                    enforce their royal master's commands, and the English fleet's growing demands for
                    naval stores thus became more arduous to realize. Losses to English shipping in the Baltic mounted,
                    and one of 
                  
                     30 Eli Heckscher, Svenskt Arbete och Liv fran mideltiden
                                till nutiden (Stockholm, 1941), 130.
                  
                     31 Robert Jackson's memoir on the Swedish Tar Company,
                            December 29, 1709, State Papers, Sweden, Public Record Office, 95/18. A copy of this memoir
                            edited by John J. Murray may be found in the 
                        
                                    Huntington
                                 Library Quartely, X (1946-1947), 419-428.
                  
                     32 Various letters of the Council of Trade and Plantations, Calendar of State Papers, Colonial Series, American and West Indies, 1706-1708,
                                June, edited by Cecil Headham (
                                London
                            , 1916); and Calendar of State Papers, Colonial Series, American
                                and West Indies, 1710-June, 1711, edited by Cecil Headham (
                                London
                            , 1924).
               
                     the last acts of Anne's government had been to send a
                    small naval force to Baltic waters to protect British merchantmen. The action proved impotent, but
                    was to serve as a precedent for larger squadrons, which under the guise of convoying the merchant
                    fleet might be diverted to aid Hanoverian politics.33
            
            George, was had an excellent grasp of European diplomacy, immediately saw the possiblities offered to
                    his designs by the trade squabbling. Before he had even arrived in 
                        England
                    , he instructed one Schreiber, his electoral representative in Stockholm, to inform the
                    Swedish government that he had "already receiv'd very great Complaints of the
                    violences done his Subjects trading in the Baltic" and that he would "not be able
                    to refuse when he comes over to his Kingdoms to grant his Subjects the assistance they may desire to
                    obtain satisfaction for the Losses they have unjustly suffer'd." The British
                    resident minister at Stockholm, Robert Jackson, was ordered to make out a bill for damages inflicted
                    upon English merchants. The charges amounted to approximately £65,449.34 Charles's countermove was to issue a newer and stricter edict of privateers.35 By so doing, he played into the hands of 
                        Hanover
                    .
            George as elector declared war on Sweden in October, 1715.36 As king of 
                        England
                    , he remained neutral in the northern conflict, for 
                        England
                     and Sweden had a mutual defensive treaty that was to be in force until 1718. A British
                    squadron earlier in 1715 had gone to the Baltic under the command of Admiral Sir John Norris. The
                    merchantmen had been convoyed to their destined ports and some reprisals had been made on Swedish
                    shipping. To the Admiral's surprise, the presence of the naval force and British diplomatic
                    pressure 
                  
                     33 Various letters of Robert Jackson, State Papers, Sweden, Public
                            Record Office, 95/18. See also the instructions for Captain Archibald Hamilton, commander of
                            the squadron, July 22, 1714, printed in British Diplomatic Instructions,
                                1689-1727… Sweden, edited by James F. Chance, in Royal Historical
                            Society Publications, Camden Third Series, XXXII (1922), 67-69.
                  
                     34 Jackson to Townshend, September 25, 1714, and Jackson to the
                            Swedish chancery, January 14, 1715, State Papers, Sweden, Public Record Office, 95/21.
                  
                     35 Swedish ordinance of privateers, February 8, 1715, in Guillaume
                            Lamberty, Memories pour servir à I'historie du XVIII
                                siècle, contenant les négociations, traitez,
                                résolutions et autres documens authentiques coneernant les affaires
                                d'état (14 vols., Hague, 1727-1740), IX (1731), 250-251.
                  
                     36 War manifesto of George I, October 15, 1715, printed in The Historical Register (23 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1717-[1739]), I, 15-18.
               
                     had not maneuvered Sweden into any overt acts of aggression.37 Thus no pretext was given the fleet to engage the Swedes openly, for the main
                    duty of the squadron, as far as the British ministry was concerned, was the protection of commerce.
            As a result, George's allies complained about Norris's inactivity, because George
                    had intimated to them that they could count upon English naval support for their military ventures,
                    The king of 
                        England
                    's hands were tied, however, by his ministers and by his parliament. The best
                    that he could do was to arrange it so that a small detachment of English naval vessels late in 1715
                    aided in the siege of Stralsund. That act did not satisfy his allies who had rightfully expected
                    more substantial aid. It also exposed him to criticism at home from the Tories, who in foreign
                    policy wanted him to observe the Act of Settlement in spirit as well as in word.
            The next year, 1716, 
                        Hanover
                    's allies, 
                        Denmark
                     and Russia, planned a joint assault upon Scania, the southern province of the Swedish
                    homeland. English naval assistance was prerequisite if the attack were to be successful. Once more
                    it was necessary for the Baltic squadron to play a role wider in scope than the protection of
                        commerce.38 Once more attempts were made to prepare the British people for
                    the action. Charles XII was charged with harboring Jacobites and with other violations of the
                    existing treaty. British ministers and Norris sent the Swedish king almost insulting letters, which
                    may have been intended to lash him into taking retaliatory measures. Overt acts would have supplied
                    fuel for the government press and in part would have justified George's policies. Charles,
                    however, kept his head and refused to be stampeded into a war with 
                        England
                    . Norris, therefore, was again forced to operate in a hostile fashion against Sweden
                    without a suitable pretext.39 As a result, in any people at home viewed his
                    actions with misgivings and began to question the validity of 
                        England
                    's Baltic diplomacy.
            
               
                  37 Various letters of Sir John Norris, Letter Books of Sir John Norris,
                        British Museum, Add. Mss. 28,144; and letters to captains of the squadron, Order Book of Sir
                        John Norris, British Museum, Add. Mss. 28,135.
               
                  38 For details on 
                            England
                         and the Scania invasion plans see John J. Murray, "Scania and the End of
                        the Northern Alliance," The Journal of Modern History (
                            Chicago
                        , 1929-), XVI (1944), 81-92.
               
                  39 Various letters of Jackson, State Papers, Sweden, Public Record Office,
                        95/22.
            
            
            The arguments of the opposition were well summed up by a pamphlet written by Gyllenborg, which was
                    run in the Post Boy. In it, the Swedish minister flatly stated that 
                        England
                     was bound by treaty to help Sweden in the Great Northern War and not to aid her
                    enemies. In so far as the seizure of ships was concerned, Gyllenborg reminded the English that they
                    had followed a similar procedure during the war of the Spanish Succession, when all Swedish ships
                    bound for 
                        France
                     had been stopped by the Royal navy. Charles had not yet received any compensation for
                    those losses, yet 
                        England
                     was demanding immediate reparation for the damages that she had suffered in the Baltic.
                    Moreover, it was pointed out— and with some justification—that many ships that
                    had been stopped en route to Russia had been destined for service in the navy of Peter the Great.
                    The somewhat valid charges that Charles was harboring Jacobites was passed off as a myth by the
                    Swedish diplomat, who aptly informed the money-conscious British that the cost of the Baltic
                    squadron far exceeded any shipping losses that the English had suffered. Gyllenborg rightfully
                    asserted that the main reason for the fleet being sent to the Baltic was to force Charles to accede
                    to the illegal seizure by 
                        Hanover
                     of 
                        Bremen
                     and Verden.40
            
            The Whig press girded itself to refute Gyllenborg's arguments. Many publications friendly to
                    the Hanoverians made much of the fact that Charles had not returned a favorable reply to the various
                    diplomatic representations of 
                        England
                    , and, therefore, George had no other choice but to allow Norris to participate in the
                    planned operation against Scania. Abel Boyer in the Political State of Great
                    Britain erroneously claimed that Charles by way of answer to the English overtures had
                    threatened to confiscate all the possessions of British subjects residing in Sweden if Norris joined
                    in the action against Scania. The English journalist stated that: "This Menace was justly
                    resented by the Crown of Great-Britain, and thereupon Orders were sent to Sir John Norris to joyn the Confederated Fleet with the best part of his Squadron and
                    to order the rest to convoy the English Merchantships 
                  
                     40 Count Karl Gyllenborg, "An English Merchant's
                            Remarks upon a Scandalous Jacobite Paper, publish'd the 19th of July last in the
                            Post-Boy under the Name of a Memorial presented to the Chancery of Sweden, by the Resident
                            of Great Britain," printed in Boyer, The Political State of Great
                                Britain, XII (1716), 305-320. Also printed in French in Lamberty, Memoires, IX, 667-677.
               
                     to the several Ports they were bound to."41 Thus was a case constructed by the court.
            The sudden decision of Peter in September, 1716, to call off the Scania invasion led to considerable
                    speculation by the English pamphleteers and newsletter writers. Daniel Defoe in the October issue of
                        Mercurius Politicus correctly analyzed the military situation and claimed that
                    Swedish armed strength and the lateness of the season may have deterred Peter from consummating
                    Russo-Dano plans against Sweden,42 Yet, it was not until the next year that he
                    appeared to be cognizant of a widening rift between George and Peter.43
            
            Boyer, on the other hand, seemed to have a better grasp of the entire Baltic problem. He informed his
                    readers by way of explanation of the changing events that George had no desire to see Charles and
                    Sweden crushed completely, for such an occurrence would upset the balance of power in the North.44 Up to September, 1716, Boyer had not mentioned 
                        Bremen
                     and Verden in the Political State, although he had made some vague
                    references about George gaining from Sweden "advantages to al! his Dominions." The
                    September and October issues, however, devoted considerable space to the prevailing arguments in 
                        England
                    , which lauded or condemned the king's Baltic policy.
            The quick change of the Baltic situation resulting from the postponement of the attack upon Scania
                    also confused certain ministers in the government. A split in the ministry began to develop between
                    those men who would go all the way with George in his foreign policy and those who were of the
                    opinion that British interests must not be sacrificed for those of 
                        Hanover
                    . Foremost among those in the pro-Hanoverian camp were General James Stanhope and
                    Charles 
                        Spencer
                    , Earl of Sunderland. Opposing them were Charles, Viscount Townshend and Sir Robert
                    Walpole, who had at one time espoused and fostered George's diplomacy but were now wavering
                    in their allegiance to the policies fostered by the king on behalf of 
                        Hanover
                     to the detriment of 
                        England
                    .
            The hotheads in the Hanoverian group wanted orders sent immediately to Norris commanding him to
                    attack Russian 
                  
                     41 Boyer, The Political State of Great Britain, XII,
                            205.
                  
                     42 [Daniel Defoe], Mercurius Politicus (
                                London
                            , 1716-1720), October, 1716, p. 383.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., March, 1717, p. 190.
                  
                     44 Boyer, The Political State of Great Britain, XII,
                            305.
               
                     troop galleys as they were returning to Mecklenburg. Thus would
                    Russian power in the Baltic be eliminated in one fell swoop. Townshend, who was the secretary of
                    state, opposed such a move because he feared that it would ruin Britain's source of naval
                    stores and thereby eventually expose 
                        England
                     to attack. Thus by late 1716, a swing away from an anti-Swedish policy was discernible
                    in some high places. In other quarters, there was dissatisfaction with the entire Baltic policy of
                    the sovereign.
            On September 23, 1716, Townshend wrote Stanhope a letter which was intended only for the General. In
                    it the secretary of state expressed the hope that the Norris squadron would come back to 
                        England
                     as soon as possible, and that the king would engage Russia neither actively nor openly.
                    Furthermore, Townshend charged: 
                        This Northern war has been managed so stupidly, that it will be our ruin. Is it possible for
                            the king to carry it on with 
                                Denmark
                             only on his side, and Muscovite troops against him, supposing even the intended
                            project should succeed? Would it not therefore be right for the king to think immediately
                            how to make his peace with Sweden even the he should be obliged to make some sacrifice in
                            obtaining it.45
                  
                    
            
            To make matters worse for the Hanoverians, opposition groups as usual were clustering around the
                    regent, the future George 11. The Prince of 
                        Wales
                     was of the opinion that a conflict with Russia would be most unfortunate for 
                        England
                    . He was especially concerned about the situation. because British spies had uncovered
                    information that Sweden was negotiating with the English Jacobites. If as intelligence showed,
                    Charles XII was contemplating an invasion of 
                        England
                     to restore James Edward Stuart, the Pretender to the British throne, all English naval
                    units should be near home and not off fishing in the troubled waters of the Baltic. As any action on
                    behalf of the Pretender would be accompanied by domestic revolt and rioting, it was absolutely
                    necessary to the security of the House of Brunswick that no outside help for the Jacobites be
                    allowed to land in 
                        Scotland
                     or 
                        England
                    .46
            
            The grumblers in the government were not to have their way. Townshend's letter to the
                    untrustworthy Stanhope who 
                  
                     45 Townshend to Stanhope, September 23, 1716, printed in Memoirs of the Life and Administration of Sir Robert Walpole, edited by William
                            Coxe (3 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1798), 11, 86.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., 87-89.
               
                     abused confidences more than once was forwarded to the king. By
                    the end of the year Townshend was eased out of his office of secretary of state and replaced by the
                    scheming Stanhope. Walpole's position was precarious. Notwithstanding, the two cousins had
                    at their command a considerable following in the parliament. If a sufficient number of Tories sided
                    with them when it came to voting supplies, it would be difficult for George to obtain funds to
                    outfit and to maintain a Baltic squadron, without which the elector of 
                        Hanover
                     would amount to little in Baltic diplomatic circles. Drastic measures mere, therefore,
                    necessary so the government might rewin British public opinion to favor the sending of fleet units
                    to the Baltic in 1717. The movements of the Swedish minister Gyllenborg supplied George with the
                    propaganda ammunition he badly needed.
            As British intelligence had discovered, Gyllenborg in 
                        London
                     and Baron Georg von Görtz, Charles XII's minister at large on the
                    continent, had been negotiating with the adherents of the Pretender. The gist of the conversations
                    revolved around a substantial loan that was to be given to Sweden by the Jacobites in return for an
                    invasion of 
                        England
                     by Charles which was to restore the Stuarts to the English throne. Whether the Swedes
                    were interested only in obtaining money by fair means or foul, or whether they did actually
                    contemplate the use of force to unseat George is a moot point that has been argued pro and con by
                    Swedish and English historians. There can be no doubt that Charles had ample cause to act against
                    George, but he lacked the military resources required for such a large scale undertaking as the
                    invasion of 
                        England
                     via 
                        Scotland
                    . On the other hand, money to buy ships was a sine qua non for the
                    Swedes, who if they could appear strong militarily in 1717, stood an excellent. chance to win
                    favorable peace terms by playing one of their enemies off against the other.47
            
            As stated above, the British government had known for some time of the negotiation and had
                    intercepted many of Gyllenborg's letters. On January 29, 1717, contrary to international
                    law, Gyllenborg was arrested and his papers seized. George and his favorites dramatically began a
                    campaign to show the English to what dangers they were threatened by 
                  
                     47 Foy, details on this plot see John J. Murray, "Sweden and
                            the Jacobites, The 
                                    Huntington
                                 Library Quarterly, VIII (1944-1945), 259-276.
               
                     Sweden and to urge the sending of a squadron to the Baltic to
                    prevent 
                        England
                     from becoming a battlefield.
            Gyllenborg's intercepted letters were arranged into a "white book" and
                    were published and distributed at government expense.48 In addition the letters
                    in one form or another were printed in the news magazines along with appropriate comments. Verses
                    referring to Charles as "the refuse of mankind" were hawked in 
                        London
                     streets. A memoir by Jackson, which had listed British maritime losses, and an earlier
                    petition of the Muscovy company, which had asked for a redress of commercial grievanoes, were run in
                    the more important publications of the time. Boyer devoted approximately two-thirds of the February
                    number of the Political State of Great Britain to northern affairs. Stanhope took
                    the letters of the Swedish ministers before the Commons and read them in an attempt to whip the
                    house into fever heat over Swedish perfidy. As Defoe so aptly summed up the situation in the Mercurius Politicus: "Things growing ripe now for a Breach with Sweden, every thing was done both publick and private, that might provoke the
                    People against the King of Sweden; As first, a Book was
                    published, Entituled, The Narrative of the Life and Death of John Rhindolt, Count Patkul…."49
            
            The item to which Defoe gave first place among many publications designed to arouse anti-Swedish
                    sentiment appears to be one of his own works, an atrocity story written almost in the modern manner.
                    With great and gory details, Defoe, described the last moments of Patkul, whom Charles had executed
                    for treason.50 Two years earlier under the guise of being a Scotsman in Swedish
                    service, Defoe had written a biography of the Swedish ruler. In it he had pointed out that the
                    Patkul execution had been bungled and consequently was rather harsh even by eighteenth century
                        standards.51 In the 
                  
                     48
                            Letters which passed between Count Gyllenborg and Barons Gortz, Sparre, and
                                others, published by authority (
                                London
                            , 1717). The original dispatches seized by the English may be found in
                            Intercepted Letters (Sweden) 1716-1717, State Papers Foreign, Confidential, S.P. 107113
                            which have been microfilmed and are in the possession of Indiana University Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     49 [Defoe], Mercurius Politicus, April, 1717, p.
                            255.
                  
                     50 [Daniel Defoe], A Short Narrative of the Life and
                                Death of John Rhanholdt Count Patkul (
                                London
                            , 1717), passim. This work is commonly attributed to
                            Molesworth, but the style, treatment of subject matter, and use of material appear to belong
                            to Defoe. A good argument, however, can be advanced for the Molesworth thesis.
                  
                     51 [Defoe]; The History of the Wars of his Present
                                Majesty Charles XII, King of Sweden, 275-276.
               
                     narrative of Patkul, Defoe quoted himself and cinched his
                    argument with the fact that even one of Charles's own soldiers had to admit the brutality
                    of his king. The British pamphleteer pictured Charles as a "ravenous Beast of
                    Prey," and warned his countrymen what they might expect if and when Charles ever attemped
                    to conquer 
                        England
                    .52
            
            The story of Patkul was not the only offering that Defoe left on the altar of Mars. In The Plot Discovered (1717) and in What if the Swedes should Come (1717),
                    the venom of his pen rendered George yeoman service. The former contribution is especially violent
                    in its language. It was an answer to a defense of Gyllenborg entitled Fair Payment no
                        Spunge, a pamphlet which Defoe branded as "vile" and
                        jesuitical."53 Defoe in The Plot Discovered
                    labeled the Swedes as knaves, fools, men as stupid as the barren rocks, libelers, and coxcombs.
                    Gyllenborg so far as Defoe was concerned was a "reptile" and a "loose
                    lying" one. It would almost seem that the author of Robinson Crusoe had an aversion to
                    fish, for the Swedish people were referred to as Codsheads and their ruler as a "Stockfish
                        Lunatick."54
            
            Constantly did the Mercurius Politicus defend the government from the many who
                    attacked its Baltic policy. There were some in 
                        England
                    , however, who thought that George was making a great fuss over little. Defoe for his
                    part refused to argue the feasibility of the plot, claiming that his was the work of the historian,
                    the true presentation of the facts. He was positive that a plot had existed and that an invasion of 
                        England
                     had been actually contemplated by Charles XII.55 After all,
                    "what Action can be so hardy, so daring, or so desperate, but may be expected from a King
                    that sleeps in his Boots, and lies in the Straw?"56 Englishmen were
                    warned about the hardships they would suffer even though the attack should be repelled after a
                    landing had been effected. According to Defoe, the exposure of the plot had been delayed to give the
                    British minister in Stockholm, Jackson, an opportunity to get safely out of Sweden.57 It perhaps was just as well for 
                  
                     52 [Defoe], Count Patkul, 57-58.
                  
                     53 [Daniel Defoe], The Plot Discovered (
                                London
                            , 1717), 3, 5.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12.
                  
                     55 [Defoe], Mercurius Politicus, February and March,
                            1717.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., February, 1717, p. 64.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., 66.
               
                     the government propaganda offensive, that the British people
                    did not know that the first news that Jackson received concerning the exposure of the plot was when
                    he read a story about it in a Konigsberg newspaper.58 Such information came too
                    late to keep him out of prison.
            There were others in 
                        England
                     who were not so optimistic as Defoe about the probable fate of Jackson. On Monday,
                    February 25, 1717, John Morphew of the Post Boy was arrested for inserting a
                    paragraph in his journal wherein he speculated as to what might happen to Jackson. Morphew pointed
                    out that Gyllenborg had been treated harshly by the English for no valid reason, whereas Jackson had
                    "advised the Danes and Muscovites how and where to undertake Descents in Sweden; and that his Original Letters upon this Subject were intercepted, and are
                            forthcoming."59
                The opposition could it appears also
                    stretch a point of fact when it suited its purpose. The government was further irritated by the
                    insinuating way that Morphew asked questions on the details of a plot that supposedly threatened the
                    settlement of Utrecht.
            Morphew was not the only one in 
                        England
                     asking questions. Nathaniel Mist in his Weekly Journal wondered why a
                    plot which supposedly had such widespread domestic ramifications had been accompanied by so few
                    arrests. He called attention to the fact that "Persons of Distinction" whose
                    identities were to be revealed were still unknown.60 Mist would agree that
                    Gyllenborg had in all likelihood been approached by Jacobite agents and had perhaps listened to
                    them, but gave the lie to the rumors current in 
                        England
                     that a large Swedish naval force was on the prowl off the coast of 
                        Scotland
                    .61 Mist also ran accounts of acts of generosity which had been
                    shown British seamen by Charles XII,62 and he assured his countrymen that
                    Charles's chief interests were east in the Baltic provinces and not west in 
                        Scotland
                    . He also drew a herring across the track by spreading fears as to the growing might of
                        Russia.63
            
            
               
                  58 Jackson to Stanhope, March 6, 1717, State Papers, Sweden, Public Record
                        Office, 95/22.
               
                  59 Printed in Boyer, The Political State of Great
                        Britain, XIII (1717), 241.
               
                  60
                        
                            London
                        , The Weekly Journal, February 9, 1717, p. 52. The Journal has been microfilmed and a copy is in the Indiana University Library, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana.
               
                  61
                        Ibid., March 2, 1717, p. 68.
               
                  62
                        Ibid., June 8, 1717, p. 156.
               
                  63
                        Ibid., June 1, 1717, p. 145.
            
            
            The writings of such men as Mist and Morphew could not cope with the flood of material that came from
                    the paid pens of government pamphleteers. Moreover, the Tory press had to be wary in order that its
                    members avoid imprisonment, for this was a period of English journalism when there was little
                    distinction between a pamphlet written in opposition to the government and a treasonous libel. Under
                    the circumstances, the opposition did well. In spite of the war scare that had been raised, George
                    won the motion to secure funds for the Baltic squadron only by four votes.64
            
            An open rupture had been brought about between 
                        England
                     and Sweden by the arrest of Gyllenborg. The break, however, might be quickly closed if
                    George received sanction from Sweden for his seizure of Breman and Verden. It was important to the
                    elector of 
                        Hanover
                     that he have his Baltic squadron, with which he could exert pressure not only upon his
                    enemy Sweden, but also upon his allies, 
                        Denmark
                    , Russia, and 
                        Brandenburg
                    -Prussia. George placed little trust in his erstwhile friends, and they entertained a
                    mutual sentiment regarding him. His victory in parliament had been won through an astute use of
                    propaganda and the paid press. The severance of diplomatic relations assured him of British naval
                    assistance in his attempts to achieve a pacification in the north which would be favorable to his
                    electoral designs. His English subjects had to a large extent underwritten his Hanoverian policy.
            
               
                  64 Isaac S. Leadam, The History of 
                                England
                             from the Accession of Anne to the Death of George ZZ (1702-1760), in
                        William Hunt and Reginald L. Poole (eds.), The Political History of 
                                England
                            
                   (12 vols., 
                            London
                        ,. 1905-1919), IX (1912), 279. See also [William Cobbett], The
                            Parliamentary History of 
                                England
                            
                   (36 vols., 
                            London
                        , 1806-1820), VII (1811), 440.
            
         
         
         
            A Nineteenth Century Hoosier Artist Samuel Richards, 1853-1893
            
                    Marguerite Hall Albjerg
                    ∗
                
            The nineteenth century contemporaries of Samuel Richards accorded him first rank as a painter of
                    pictures and also gave him an unchallengeable place in their affections. For this gentle Hoosier
                    artist was talented and gifted both in working with inanimate canvas and in living with his fellows.
                    Rarely has an artist in a forty-year life-span achieved such gratifying professional recognition as
                    well as such satisfying human relationships.
            Samuel Richards, the eldest of four sons, began life in 1853 at 
                        Spencer
                    , Indiana, in the home of an able lawyer father and a gifted, imaginative mother. These
                    four boys were left motherless at an early age but Sam always felt that he inherited his artistic
                    talent from his maternal parent. In the picturesque hills of 
                        Owen County
                     and in the region that is familiar to us as McCormick's State Park, this lad
                    grew up and early reveled in the beauty about him as he tramped the river banks and the beautiful
                    wooded slopes. At school age, he was trying to transfer to paper, blackboard, or wooden slab with
                    charcoal, chalk, pencil, or penknife what he observed in nature as well as portraits of the people
                    he saw about him. The making of these early though crude sketches quickened the lad's
                    ardent desire to draw and paint and by the time he entered his teens, he had pledged himself
                    unreservedly to pursue an artist's career. Unlike most youths' aspirations to be a
                    fireman, a jockey, or a policeman, Sam's first ambition remained his life-long
                    determination despite parental disapproval and a seriously impaired physique.
            But his diversity of interests and his lack of funds led him, for a time, to explore his many
                    capacities. He wrote some adolescent verses which he sent on to Henry W. Longfellow and received
                    from the New 
                        England
                     poet "a letter full of kindness but of gentle discouragement."1 He taught himself 
                  
                     ∗ Mrs. Marguerite Hall Albjerg is a member of the faculty
                            of the department of history, government and economics at Purdue University, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana. This paper was read at the Indiana History Teachers Association
                            session at the Indiana History Conference on December 13, 1947, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Louise Parks Richards Manuscript Collection, 35. This Manuscript
                            Collection and the Samuel Richards Scrapbook are in the possession of the late Mrs. Samuel
                            Richards' niece, Louise Parks Banes, Bakersfield, 
                                California
                            .
               
                     to play the violin with considerable efficiency—an
                    accomplishment which caused the skeptical neighbors to become downright alarmed over the prospects
                    of one who cared only to "daub in paint" and "fiddle." He even
                    ran off as a drummer boy to the Civil War and in his later years facetiously remarked that he was
                    "a wounded veteran" of that conflict. Actually he was promptly returned home by a
                    relative who soundly whipped him in route and, thereby, inflicted his so-called
                        "wounds."2 Sam served as a bookkeeper in the general store
                    and accumulated enough to purchase drawing materials and to provide for a year's study in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            While this observant lad absorbed the beauty of the 
                        Owen County
                     countryside, its bucolic life tutored him in the vagaries and virtues of small-town
                    Hoosier folk. This early heritage he never forgot, for whether in Europe or America, he always
                    possessed the ability to establish a delightful companionship with common folk whom he genuinely
                    liked as well as a gracious comradeship with the intelligentsia whom he enjoyed. Actually, some of
                    these early experiences were so indelibly impressed upon him that he sought to convey them to
                    others, even when a small boy, by his remarkable gift of mimicry. He kept the lawyers and judge of
                    the county court in an uproar by his imitations of their foibles. But it was the religious
                    idiosyncracies of the local Methodists and Free Will Baptists who furnished him with an incomparable
                    collection of stories. Strangely enough, the local inhabitants were never antagonized by these
                    portrayals but always relished them as did his later companions whether in Munich or in 
                        Denver
                    . For he was contemptuous neither of those he imitated nor of the frontier church under
                    whose roof he witnessed so many amazing episodes. For his fun-loving spirit and his gift of mimicry
                    as well as his contagious friendliness bound people to him wherever he lived. He was not only a
                    matchless raconteur—he was also a gentle and affectionate man who loved his fellowmen
                    even for their human weaknesses.
            To young Richards, Communion Sunday on the frontier was invariably an interesting phenomenon. He
                    noted that the good brethren and sisters approached the communion table with their pipes in their
                    mouths and only when actually partaking of the Holy Sacrament were they removed. As the 
                  
                     2 Samuel Richards Scrapbook, 13b, quoting the 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, News, December 14, 1891.
               
                     bread and wine were swallowed, the pipes were promptly restored
                    to their accustomed places.3 One of these communicants was a kindly, energetic
                    illiterate called "Governor Texas." He had a peculiar fascination for the boy.
                    Though "
                        Texas
                    " was a devout Methodist, he generously helped the Baptists to save sinners
                    during their revivals. But the close-communion Baptists did not invite him to partake of the
                    Lord's Supper—a slight he bitterly resented—so when in a conciliatory
                    manner they called on him to lead in closing prayer, he boldly called out, "I
                    can't work where I can't eat."4
            
            Then too, there was Sister C. who was entirely unpredictable when she "got
                    religion." Richards explained that, "Nature had dealt rather niggardly with this
                    sister in the matter of mental endowment but she did not know it and never felt the
                    inconvenience." But on one occasion when the religious frenzy had reached an unusual peak,
                    she was not to be outdone by the "hallelujahs" of others but "in a spirit
                    of sacrifice and utter abandon, rushed forward and drawing the set of false teeth from her month,
                    deposited them on the altar."5 Another devout sister was heard by
                    Richards to offer this testimonial at prayer meeting: "For a long time I was vain and
                    frivolous and sinful enough to wear jewelry. Finally, I concluded that the ear rings I wore were
                    dragging my soul down to hell and so I took them right off and gave them to my sister."6; Such youthful experiences not only supplied Richards with a repertory of
                    stories but also filled his observant mind with an invaluable collection of varied faces and
                    personalities.
            Driven by a desperate eagerness to acquire knowledge in his chosen field, young Richards left 
                        Spencer
                     in 1871. His sojourn there, however, had fortified him with a discerning appreciation
                    of beauty, with a percocious understanding of human nature, with an ebullient and fun-loving spirit
                    and, even with some meager savings. He spent over a year in 
                        Indianapolis
                     where he worked under Theodore Leitz, a cultivated and kindly German photographer who
                    had some knowledge of painting. The relationship of these two quickly developed into a warm and
                    affectionate friendship and while Richards learned 
                  
                     3 Louise Parks Richards Manuscript Collection, 23-24.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 29-30.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 26-27.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 27.
               
                     something of color, the use of the brush and a great deal
                    concerning the Old Masters and Europe's art galleries, his instruction in drawing and basic
                    art principles was inadequate. Moreover, his artistic idealism revolted against the portrait
                    painting in Indiana of the eighteen seventies. The photographer and not the artist played the
                    stellar role in the process. "By means of a negative in a solar camera, the face or figure
                    to be painted was thrown upon canvas, where, enlarged to life size, it was carefully traced with
                    pencil…. The tracings were covered with paint of various admixtures and blendings and
                    then 'finished up' with sittings to approximate…. the
                    color of eyes and hair. This constituted a portrait from life."7 Most
                    local patrons were satisfied with their "genuine oil painting" if inspection
                    revealed it had a canvas back, a painted front, and some similarity in feature to the face of the
                    original. Such hack work did not please this art-ist-in-the-making but between these distasteful
                    chores, he found time to draw and paint from life, study his few art books and read widely in the
                    broadening areas of history and biography.
            Late in 1872, he took a brief fling at formal education at Indiana University, but the weighty
                    emphasis on algebraic theorems and Latin declensions was displeasing to his artistic mind. In fact,
                    he found studying the faces and demeanor of his professors more interesting and profitable than
                    heeding their erudition. An unwise investment in 
                        Indianapolis
                     real estate deprived him of his savings and left him with a debt of eight hundred
                    dollars, the paying of which plagued him for several years.
            Richards was chafing at his inability to get artistic direction from experienced artists, so he wrote
                    to the sculptor, Hiram Powers, who then resided in 
                        Italy
                     and asked his advice. At that time, Powers was probably the best-known American artist
                    abroad, and he generously took time to reply to this unknown Hoosier art student. He advised him
                    against going to Europe but urged his studying anatomy and training his eye and hand to copy just
                    what he saw so as to become an acute observer of nature.8 "These
                    suggestions were treasured with reverential regard" and as nearly as possible carefully
                    followed. During this period, Richards produced his 
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 42.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 45-46.
               
                     first pictures which won him favorable notice outside his 
                        Spencer
                     clientele. They were a full length portrait of William Black, President of Butler
                    College, and a smaller portrait of the Mayor of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . These were exhibited at the Indiana State Fair in 1873 and, despite their location
                    among the jellies and jams, fancy quilts and wax flowers, they attracted marked attention and added
                    to the local prestige of the struggling artist.9
            
            That autumn, Richards went to 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana, where he established a studio and remained for four years. His serious
                    pursuit of his art won the prompt approval of the city's elders while his genial charm and
                    amazing talent for mimicry captured immediately the younger crowd. The college fraternity of Phi
                    Delta Theta made him a member, and wherever he wait in his leisure lime, the delighted response to
                    his presence was evident. Romance did not pass him by. Shortly after his arrival, he was captivated
                    by the very considerable charms of Louise Parks, a brilliant and rather dashing daughter of a
                    prosperous but strait-laced Baptist minister. She had a mind as keen as her wit was bright and a
                    heart as ardent as her will was determined. Their mutual devotion was matched by their joint
                    determination to conquer parental opposition and to overcome poverty. The resourceful young lady
                    explained the artist's frequent call to her disapproving father by saying they were
                    "cultivating their minds" and studying the French Revolution. "When the
                    denouement became known, and the unsanctioned engagement was announced to the family, the good man
                    expressed his disgust by exclaiming: 'And you have been talking to me about the French
                    Revolution. This is what I call an American Revolution.' "10 As usually happens, however, the enthusiastic eagerness of youth overcame the
                    stern opposition of maturity and an adoring but apprehensive father married them in 1875. Life took
                    on a new lustre for Richards for now he had the companionship and devotion of a most attractive wife
                    who believed implicitly in his rising star and who resolved to find ways and means for his study
                    abroad. In 1876, their only son, Harlie, was born and his arrival added a new ecstasy to their
                    exuberant happiness.
            
               
                  9
                        Ibid., 56; Samuel Richards Scrapbook, 17, quoting the 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana, Express, May 10, 1891.
               
                  10 Louise Parks Richards Manuscript Collection, 65.
            
            
            Richards having exhausted the portrait painting possibilities of the college town moved to Anderson,
                    Indiana, where his now admiring father-in-law had given them a home. Shortly after their arrival,
                    they were dealt a stunning blow by the sudden death of their year-old son who had never before been
                    ill. "Summer complaint," as the malady was then called, was the pitiless assassin.
                    One of the pallbearers on this sad occasion was a local newspaper man who had already formed a warm
                    friendship with the stricken father. It was the first time this sensitive journalist had acted as a
                    carrier of the dead, and he was much shaken by the experience and by the silent suffering of the
                    young parents. Unable to express his sympathy by word, he wrote some verses dedicated to the child
                    "loved and mourned by hearts so newly won."
            
                    HARLIE
                    Fold the little waxen hands Lightly. Let your warmest tears Speak regrets, but never fears,
                        — Heaven understands! Let the sad heart, o'er the tomb, Lift again and burst
                        in bloom Fragrant with a prayer as sweet As the lily at your feet.
                    Bend and kiss the folded eyes— They are only feigning sleep While their truant glances
                        peep Into Paradise.
                    See, the face, though cold and white, Holds a hint of some delight E'en with Death,
                        whose finger-tips Rest upon the frozen lips.
                    When within the years to come, Vanished echoes live once more— Pattering footsteps on
                        the floor, And the sounds of home, — Let your arms in fancy fold Little Harlie as of
                        old— As of old and as he waits At the City's golden gates.11
               
                
            These verses appeared in the town paper and were signed "R" which initial meant
                    about as much as would the then unknown name of the author, James Whitcomb Riley.
            
               
                  11
                        The Complete Works of James Whitcomb Riley, edited by Edmund H. Eitel (6
                        vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1913), 1, 192.
            
            
            The embryo poet and artist, each struggling for a livelihood and seeking recognition for his art,
                    found mutual encouragement in their devoted friendship. Riley would say to his friend: "I
                    wonder who'll get there first, Richards, you or I." Each was always elated over
                    any recognition accorded the other. The artist sent for a set of wood carving tools so that he could
                    carve illustrations out of box wood for the poet's "Farmer Whipple,"
                    "Wash Lowry's Reminiscences," and other of his poems as they came out in
                    the Anderson Democrat. When Riley perpetrated his famous hoax regarding Edgar
                    Allen Poe, it was his good friend Richards who supplied the necessary chirography. Riley contended
                    that what a man wrote was not as important as the name over
                    which it was written; that once a reputation was established, the public was ready to accept
                    anything from the author. Richards, however, with his unwavering belief in the sincerity of
                    men— even of critics—thought merit alone counted and that the favorable
                    judgment of the critics had not only to be won but also held.12
            
            To establish his thesis, Riley carefully imitated Poe's style in a poem which he called
                    "Leonainie," and Richards after diligently studying lithographic facsimiles of
                    Poe's handwriting, painstakingly copied it on the fly leaf of an old Ains-worth Dictionary. This volume was supposedly found in the possesssion of an elderly
                    Hoosier whose grandfather had been the keeper of a 
                        Virginia
                     tavern presumably frequented by Poe. The Anderson conspirators connived with the editor
                    of the 
                  
                            Kokomo
                         Dispatch who first published the poem. The counterfeiting scheme was a
                    tremendous success and the Eastern critics such as William Cullen Bryant and Edmund Clarence Stedman
                    testified to the authenticity of the verses and of the chirography. Eventually the secret was out,
                    Riley lost his job on the Anderson Democrat but not without considerable
                    notoriety, a part of which ultimately proved advantageous to his literary career. Nine years later
                    when writing to a friend concering the affair, Riley said of Richards, "He did his work
                    well, and was thus the author of the best part of the poem. He worked then as he works
                    now;—straight from the heart."13 After the
                    "Leonainie" episode, the paths of these two Hoosiers went in divergent ways but
                    their affectionate friendship 
                  
                     12 Louise Parks Richards Manuscript Collection, 77.
                  
                     13
                            The Complete Works of James Whitcomb Riley, I, 432.
               
                     ended only with Richards' death. During the
                    artist's early years in Munich, Riley wrote him enclosing a favorable review of his recent
                    book, and added "The Top Literati of America is just now storming me with letters of
                    congratulations. O, my man, our little old visionary speculations along the ragged river banks at
                    Anderson are going to materialize after all!"14
            
            In 1880, came the fruition of Richards' youthful planning. Financed by the prepayment of
                    orders for pictures to be furnished later and also by the aid of devoted father-in-law, he and his
                    wife set sail for Europe. Theodore C. Steele15 sailed on the same vessel and
                    these two Hoosiers studied together for a time at the Royal Academy of Munich. Richards planned to
                    remain two years but stayed eleven for there in the shadow of the world's best art
                    galleries and under the guidance of the ablest art teachers, he was artistically intoxicated by the
                    opportunities to learn. He immediately entered the still-life drawing class of the Academy of Munich
                    where he spent four years, though he could have entered the painting class at the end of two years.
                    But he believed no one could paint well unless his foundation was laid well. Pronounced the finest
                    draftsman among the six hundred students, he won a gold medal at the end of the drawing course.
                    Other recognition came to him by way of a letter from John Ruskin who had heard of his work and
                    asked that he might see his pictures. The artist sent some of his drawings to the famous English
                    critic for his inspection. In his reply, Ruskin complimented Richards on the sureness of his drawing
                    and on the patience it took to acquire such perfection in handling, but concluded in his
                    characteristically trenchant manner, "I never saw beastlier or uglier models." The
                    artist commented that, "The wrinkled old faces were perhaps not as pleasing as younger
                    ones, but gave me a better opportunity for fine work."16
            
            Richards attended lectures on anatomy for two years at the University of Munich medical school. He
                    studied under 
                  
                     14 Marcus Dickey, The Maturity of James Whitcomb
                            Riley (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1922), 164.
                  
                     15 Steele was born in 
                                Owen County
                            , Indiana, in 1847. In 1880, he went to Europe and became a pupil at the Royal
                            Academy in Munich. There he studied under Benczur and von Loefftz.
                  
                     16 Samuel Richards Scrapbook, 24, quoting the 
                        Denver, Colorado
                     , Republican, June 13, 1892.
               
                     Alexander Straehuber, Gyula Benczur, Nikolaus Gysis, and Ludwig
                    von Loefftz.17 The last named was later director of the Royal Academy at Munich
                    and early became one of the most ardent admirers of Richards' work as well as his warm
                    friend. Such notice from Professor von Loefftz was a wonderful boon for a rising American artist as
                    the professor was recognized as one of Europe's best technical judges of painting. When
                    Richards exhibited in the painting class, he was again awarded a gold medal. "He became a
                    regular exhibitor at the Salon and the Kunst Verein, the latter being an incorporation of artists of
                    Munich whose object was to maintain a high standard of excellence."18
                    His "Little Italian Singing Boy" was the first original painting to bring him
                    recognition and when it was exhibited, his professors told him he was destined to confer great honor
                    on his country.19 With foreign recognition came the friendly patronage of
                    Senator and Mrs. John R. McPherson of 
                        New Jersey
                     who purchased his "Peasant Stories" and hung it in their 
                        Washington
                     home. This painting portrayed a bright interior scene where a large family was
                    listening with enraptured appreciation to the legends graphically told by the master of the house.
                    The expressions on the various faces were a study. The face of little Gretchen, the delicate and
                    lovely daughter born to the Richards in 
                        Germany
                    , appeared in this group as it did in several of his other pictures. When a visiting
                    senator saw the painting in the McPherson home, he immediately offered his host four times the
                    original price of the painting but was promptly refused.20
            
            In 1883, Richards wrote his friend D. W. Campbell in Anderson, Indiana, and told him of the wonderful
                    advantages 
                  
                     17 Benczur, historical painter, was born at Nyiregjhaza, 
                                Hungary
                            , in 1884. He studied at Munich and in 1880 became professor at the Academy. At
                            a later date he became director of Pesth Academy. Gysis, history and genre painter, was born
                            in Isle of Tinos, Greek Archipelago, in 1842. He was a pupil of the Munich Academy. In 1874,
                            he settled in Munich. Von Loefftz, genre and landscape painter, was born in Darmstadt in
                            1846. He was a pupil of the Nuramberg Art School under August von Kreling and of Munich
                            Academy under Wilhelm Diez. In 1874, he became assistant professor at the Academy and later
                            professor. Straehuber, history painter, born at Mondsee, Salz-kammergut, in 1814. He studied
                            at the Munich Academy and later became professor and honorary member of the Academy.
                  
                     18 Mary Q. Burnet, Art and Artists of Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1921), 149.
                  
                     19 Samuel Richards Scrapbook, 39, quoting the 
                        Denver, Colorado
                     , Republican, December 1, 1893.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 16, quoting the 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana, Gazette, January 23, 1892.
               
                     he enjoyed in studying in Munich. He believed that 
                        German city
                     had "the third gallery in the world in size and in quality ranks second, the
                    first and best; in the world being in Madrid, a city where there are no art academies or art
                        advantages."21 Richards made some excellent copies of works of the
                    famous Spanish painter, Bartolorné E. Murillo, whom he greatly admired. Their workmanship
                    was of such a superior quality that he was offered large sums for them, but he disposed of them at a
                    very modest figure to his artist friends who also desired them and had esteemed them highly. This
                    consideration for his comrades, even at the expense of his slender purse, was a lifelong
                    characteristic of the man.
            Early in their stay in Munich, Richards and his wife were taken in by the Anglo-American colony which
                    was made up mainly of British and American artists, literati, and diplomats. In fact, Richards was
                    soon regarded as the wit of the group and on festal occasions such as the fourth of July, he was
                    often the central attraction. At one such function his sparkling wit and clever mimicry caused him
                    to be cast as the chief minstrel for an entertainment given at an artists' carnival. The
                    Prince Regent of Bavaria was present and was so carried away by the American funmakers that he asked
                    that the program be repeated for his personal benefit.22 Gifted in foreign
                    languages, Richards quickly mastered the Bavarian dialects and loved to surprise the peasants with
                    the richness of his brogue. When he wandered through the Bavarian Alps, he always wore the costume
                    of the Bavarian Tyrol and adopted the manners and customs of the natives when among them. He knew
                    many of their folk songs and "could jodel equal to any mountaineer Swiss or
                    Tyrolese." He loved these simple, picturesque people, who returned his affection, and he
                    always came back from a tour among them refreshed both in spirit and body.
            Despite the relaxation of the Bavarian countryside, the artist's hours in his studio were
                    necessarily long and arduous. By 1887, the dreaded disease which had probably gripped him
                    —even if lightly—since he was in his teens, established its deadly hold upon
                    him. Tuberculosis had already attacked his talented brother William as well as other members of his
                    family 
                  
                     21 Louise Parks Richards Manuscript Collection, 2a, 3a.
                  
                     22 Samuel Richards Scrapbook, 49, quoting the 
                        Denver, Colorado
                     , 
                        Rocky Mountain News,
                            December 18, 1894.
               
                     and had been always a constant menace to his frail physique. He
                    went to Davos, 
                        Switzerland
                    , in search of health and there found improvement while at the same time he made another
                    devoted friend. His villa was next to that of the famous English art critic and historian, John
                    Addington Symonds, who was an invalid also. Strangely enough, this highly cultivated and brilliant
                    Oxonian and this one time obscure but talented Hoosier artist became intimate friends. The Italian
                    government had just accorded Symonds the coveted honor of opening the private papers of Michelangelo
                    on the four hundredth anniversary of his death—a privilege granted him because he was
                    considered the greatest living authority on the Italian Renaissance. As Symonds examined these
                    remarkable papers which he discussed with his artist neighbor, their companionship ripened and,
                    during these interesting sessions, Richards made a sketch of his English friend. When Symonds saw
                    it, he exclaimed: " 'You have seen and put in my face everything and more than I
                    would have had the world see."23 This arresting pen-and-ink head now
                    hangs in the John Herron Art Institute, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
            Symonds told Mrs. Richards of the following incident which revealed the influence her husband had on
                    this critic's thinking. One day while walking through a Florentine art gallery, the
                    Englishman noticed a group of American tourists admiring one of the masterpieces. A member of the
                    party was reading the estimate of the picture as given by the eminent critic, Symonds, who at the
                    moment was one of the attentive listeners. Finally, he joined the group and introduced himself. Then
                    he told them that as Americans they might be interested to know that his opinion of the picture had
                    been changed since the writing of the criticism because of the influence of a most acute and gifted
                    artist, their fellow countryman, Samuel Richards.24 In 1893, Symonds published
                    his definitive life of Michelangelo and in its preface, paid tribute again to the American artist.
                    He said: "My friend Mr. Samuel Richards, the distinguished American painter, assisted me
                    with technical and critical observations upon several intricate details of Michelangelo's
                    work, and, furthermore, enabled me to give the right solution of the action intended in the colossal
                        
                  
                     23 Burnet, Art and Artists of Indiana, 152.
                  
                     24 Samuel Richards Scrapbook, 37, quoting the 
                        Dayton, Ohio
                     , Journal, May 9, 1893.
               
                     statue of David at Florence."25
                    Previously, Symonds had said of Richards that he "is the most genuinely artistic genius I
                    ever met, and is the coming man of his generation."26
            
            Richards was not only stimulated intellectually and artistically by his friendship with Symonds, but
                    the latter's twenty-five-year struggle with the same disease which gripped him increased
                    his sanguine outlook. The artist said, "'Symonds is my hope: he has lived to belie
                    physicians' prophecy; so will I.'"27 So he did, but
                    his borrowed time was a much briefer span for although Symonds preceded him in death by six months,
                    he was in his fifty-fourth year while Richards died at forty.
            One of Richards' best works was "The Hour of Prayer," which was painted in
                    Munich in 1887 and which won a gold medal at the Academy. It shows the kneeling figure of a
                    Capauchin monk at his evening devotions in the monastery chapel. An art critic notes that 
                        It is precisely because the kneeeling monk has been painted with intelligence and sympathy
                            that the picture has awakened enthusiasm…. [It shows] the struggle between the
                            intellect and the soul in a man of a sanguine, nervous temperament who in a fit of
                            enthusiasm became a monk when young, and who now, in middle age, longs for the glorious
                            struggle of the world…. There is the evidence not of sin but of struggle, and
                            combat of the intellect with the soul, the desire of one to be freed from the domination of
                            the other and to plunge into the myriad interests that make up the life of the world. It is
                            a subtle conception, and it would warm the heart of Leibl [the greatest of the Munich
                            painters of that period] to see it, though it is a flight beyond his own powers.28
                  
                    "The Hour of Prayer" was exhibited at the 
                        Chicago
                     World's Fair in 1892, where it created much favorable comment and was later
                    lent permanently to the 
                        New York
                     Metropolitan Museum.
            But Richards' magnum opus was "Evangeline" which he first conceived when
                    as a youth he read Longfellow's poem by the same name. During the intervening years, he
                    made thirty preliminary sketches before 'he actually began work on the picture in 1887. It
                    portrays Evangeline finding her lover, 
                  
                     25 John Addington Symonds, The Life of Michelangelo
                                Buonarroti (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1893), xxii.
                  
                     26 Samuel Richards Scrapbook, quoting the 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Times Star, June 22, 1891.
                  
                     27 Burnet, Art and Artists of Indiana, 153.
                  
                     28 Samuel Richards Scrapbook, 35.
               
                     Gabriel, in a 
                        Philadelphia
                     almshouse after a twenty-five-year search for him from whom she was separated
                    accidentally. Meanwhile, she had become a sister of mercy who was caring for the ill during a
                    cholera epidemic in the midst of which she discoverred her lover among its victims. The accidental
                    meeting of these two in a sick room of a house for the poor is the motif of the painting. The canvas
                    is fourteen by ten feet and has in addition to the two central figures, two other sisters of mercy
                    and one patient. Many believed that Richards himself was the Gabriel of the picture.
            The artist described his painting of the picture as follows: 
                        My first idea of "Evangeline" came to me late one evening, just as I had
                            finished reading the poem, some fourteen or fifteen years ago…. I tried then to
                            make a charcoal sketch, but failed… for lack of knowledge of the principles upon
                            which pictures are composed….
                        After completing my studies at the Academy of Munich… I was determined at last to
                            paint my picture and stake my all upon it…. I had painted many pictures previous
                            to this, which had given me confidence to attempt such a canvas.
                        After a long, anxious period during which I had worked by day with my brush and by night with
                            my brain, the picture was about finished… when suddenly, without warning, I was
                            taken with violent hemorrhage of the lungs. After some weeks I was carried to my studio in a
                            chair until I completed the few minor details. The result I leave to others, claiming only
                            in all sincerity to have made a conscientious effort to perpetuate a noble and pure
                            sentiment and an honesty of endeavor for sound technical execution, which, taken together,
                            is my ideal of art….
                        Without wishing to raise the question of "nationality" in art, believing as
                            I do that art in its highest form is universal, yet one must admit that every nation has
                            imprinted its individuality upon art in each country, from the Greek to the Modern French.
                            We have little or no art that can be called national in character. But the time is here when
                            every American should begin to hope that native artists, whether living abroad or at home,
                            would endeavor to begin the foundation at least of the art of the coming greatest nation in
                            the world.
                        To me, the life, traditions and legends of my native land teem with subjects as beautiful and
                            noble in thought as one could find upon earth, so I have worked and hoped to draw materials
                            from my own land for my life work…. The story of Evangeline gave me a congenial
                            motive from my own country and my next aim was its proper presentation….
                        I expected criticism on two or three points at least…. In the first place, the
                            picture is lighted from behind. The light is diffused through the curtained windows in the
                            back instead, of falling from the side or front, the subject being a romance from real life,
                            demanded picturesque and poetic effect, which I found far more strongly obtained  by letting the light come from behind. Another important reason
                            for this, it afforded me a legitimate way to shield Evangeline's age as compared
                            with Gabriel…. [who was] prematurely aged through hardships and disease, and now,
                            wasted by the plague and in dying condition…. To present the ideal Evangeline was
                            of far more moment to me than to satisfy "contentious
                            realism"…. My Evangeline I loved so well that I fain
                            would shield her… from the full glare of light which might reveal the lines of
                            age and suffering.29
                  
                    
            
            During the two years that it took to complete the picture, Richards' studio was closed to
                    all except his wife and his models. After his collapse, only two weeks before the
                    painting's completion, the doctors said he could not live, but he whispered, "I
                    will show the doctors—I will live." Seeing his frenzied eagerness to complete
                    the picture, his physicians agreed after he had had a two months' rest that it would do him
                    less harm to be carried to his studio where sustained by eggnogs and stimulants, he was allowed to
                    paint for two hours daily. After six weeks of such tragically heroic effort, his painting was
                    finished, but he collapsed and was taken away to Davos, 
                        Switzerland
                    , in a desperate effort to halt the ravages of a fatal disease.
            "Evangeline" was first exhibited alone in Munich in 1889 and, while customarily
                    such a showing lasted only a month, crowds flocked to see it for three months. It was an immediate
                    success both with the public and with the critics and was exhibited at the 
                        Paris
                     Exhibition later the same year. Professor von Loefftz said of it, "I have not
                    a single criticism to offer. It is absolutely perfect."30 A professor
                    of Art History and Cricitism called it, "the greatest picture of American art which I have
                    seen…. At the last exhibition of the Royal Academy, 
                        London
                    , I saw many interesting and charming pictures, but nothing in which the depths of the
                    human soul were expressed with such truth and power as in these works of Samuel Richards.31 The 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Sentinel referred to it as, "One of the most famous pictures ever
                    done by an American artist" while the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News spoke accurately when it said, "There is a peculiar pathos in
                    the history of this picture. The artist gave it his strength, his spirit, almost his life."32
            
            
               
                  29
                        Ibid., 15-16, quoting the 
                     Detroit, Michigan
                  , Journal, January 9, 1892.
               
                  30
                        Ibid., 8, quoting the 
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  , Times Star, June 22, 1891.
               
                        31
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  32
                        Ibid., 8-9.
            
            
            When Richards returned to the 
                        United States
                     in 1891, "Evangeline" was purchased by the Honorable Bela Hubbard, a 
                        Detroit
                     connoisseur of art, and was presented to the local museum. This Hoosier
                    artist—for he was always proud of his Hoosier birth as well as his American
                    heritage—felt some regret that his most famous picture did not find its permanent home in
                    his native state. During a showing of the painting in 
                        Detroit
                    , the artist was unobtrusively moving about the museum and enjoying some of the
                    originals of the old masters. He met by chance a rather pompous gentleman just returned from Europe
                    who considered himself an authority on art and who patronizingly remarked to Richards, "I
                    am delighted… to find so many copies of the Old Masters here in 
                        Detroit
                    ."
            "Oh, I beg your pardon," answered Richards, "but these are
                    genuine."
            "Oh not at all, impossible, you know for I have seen the original of this and this and
                    this," and he pointed to the grand Murillo and others in rapid succession and named various
                    galleries as the places of their abode.
            "And you saw the original of this, too," innocently inquired Richards as he
                    indicated "Evangeline."
            "Oh yes, yes, indeed; but I cannot recall just where now, you know. Very admirable copy
                    though, very."33 Richards modestly concealed his own identity and
                    thoroughly enjoyed the incident, as did his friends later when he related the story to them in his
                    inimitable way.
            In his painting, Richards said he always planned the general design of his picture and then looked
                    about him for subjects suitable for models. He painted his faces and figures from sittings, but
                    relied on his own imagination for idealizing the expressions of some of the countenances.34 On the other hand, while his charcoal and pen-and-ink heads were also made
                    from models, there was never any preliminary sketching of any kind for these portraits. He pointed
                    out that he had striven hard to avoid confining himself to one line of subjects. "This is
                    so easy," he said, "that it requires an effort to keep from falling into the habit
                    unconsciously. I have taken a new problem to solve each time and I believe my reputation 
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 13, quoting the 
                        Detroit, Michigan
                     , Tribune, October 25, 1891.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., 17, quoting the 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana, Gazette, January 23, 1892.
               
                     will be the better for it."35 The
                    wide variety of his artistic themes substantiate his statement.
            In analyzing Richards' artistic style, Edward Garezynski, an art critic, placed him in the
                    naturalistic school and indicated that like Leibl he comprehended 
                        naturalism as realism plus sympathy and suggestiveness…. Richards in his technique
                            is absolutely original. He swallowed and digested all that Munich could teach him and added
                            to that fund of information very much that comes from his own brains and from the
                            intelligent study of the old masters, chiefly, I think, the second Flemish School and the
                            great Spaniards. The Italians have evidently impressed him but little, because of their
                            conventiality…. Nothing is more striking in his painting than the grand sobriety
                            of his tones, for he uses but few pigments, and these of a kind upon which time can work no
                                change.36
                  
                    Thomas Moran, an American artist of note who was a contemporary of Richards, said of him,
                    "He has no superior in America and few in Europe."37 His
                    professors at the Royal Academy said that no other American had ever been to Munich who gave such
                    promise as he.38
            
            There were other evidences of Indiana's coming of age in the artistic world. The
                    observations of Professor Frank B. Sanborn of 
                        Massachusetts
                     who visited Indiana during Richards' return trip, appeared in the 
                  
                            Boston
                         Advertiser. After commenting on the huge quantity and amazing uses of
                    Indiana's natural gas, he added, 
                        Art advances in Indiana today as fast as in 
                                Boston
                            , though it has not yet got so far. I met at a tea table in Anderson an Indiana
                            painter who was lately returned from Europe where he has been studying and painting in
                            Munich, Florence and 
                                Rome
                            , and where his most intimate friend of late has been Addington Symonds, the
                            English scholar and poet…. It was odd to hear the latest discoveries about the
                            great Florentine artist [Michelangelo] at a tea table in the "natural gas
                            belt" of Indiana—but why not? Civilization migsates and expands and if
                            there are deserts and barbarians where once were the splendors of 
                                Egyptian
                             and 
                                Greek cities
                            , why should there not be splendid cities where lately there were barbarians
                            hunting racoons in the wilderness?39
                  
                    So it would seem that even the 
                        Boston
                     Brahmins saw hope for culture in the Hoosier state which had so recently emerged from
                    its unlettered savagery.
            
               
                  35
                        Ibid., 34.
               
                  36
                        Ibid., 34-35.
               
                  37
                        Ibid., 31.
               
                  38
                        Ibid., 52, quoting the 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Journal, May 5, 1895.
               
                  39
                        Ibid 14.
            
            
            Richards lived nearly four years after the completion of his most famous work and painted several
                    additional pictures. One of these was, "Day Before the Wedding" which he painted
                    at Davos, 
                        Switzerland
                    . He regarded it as "technically more meritorious" than
                    "Evangeline." It portrayed a beautiful young maiden adorning her bridal costume
                    with orange blossoms while her thoughtful lover sat by and watched her appreciatively. Shortly
                    before his death, Richards sketched plans for a huge canvas which he designated as
                    "Lincoln's Last Call for Troops." It would have included about three
                    hundred figures and would have shown a regiment in the process of organizing.40
            
            The story of Richards' success preceded his return to the 
                        United States
                     but did not prevent his landing in jail on his arrival in 
                        New York
                    . His wife and young daughter had preceded him to America and when he came some weeks
                    later, he brought with him two trunks of their clothes. Since he arrived with feminine apparel and
                    unaccompanied by female companions, he was suspected of a first-class smuggling job and, therefore,
                    was arrested and thrown into jail.41 But his unfailing sense of humor enabled
                    him to laugh at this indignity even in his weakened condition, and he delighted his friends with a
                    hilarious account of the episode. As a matter of fact, his home-coming would have been a triumphal
                    tour had he had the health to participate in the gala events in his honor at different art centers
                    as well as enjoy the lavish hospitality of his old friends and of his new admirers.
            "Evangeline" was exhibited in 
                  Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cincinnati, Dayton, Detroit, Chicago
               , and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Orders for pictures fairly swamped him while offers of positions from art academies
                    were numerous. Leland 
                        Stanford
                     University invited him to be head of their art department. The most flattering
                    invitation, however, was that from the 
                        Boston
                     Art School which offered him its directorship, a large salary, whatever time he desired
                    for his own painting, the privilege of selecting his corps of teachers, and any amount of money
                    necessary to make the school the first of its kind in the world. In the artist's own words,
                    "Victory stood at the door with full hands." Yet this painter with the gentle
                        
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 13b, quoting the 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, News, December 24, 1891.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., 9, quoting the 
                        Detroit, Michigan
                     , Tribune, October 11, 1891.
               
                     soul and valiant spirit was untouched by bitterness or
                    frustration as he declined these honors one by one. For courageously determined as was his struggle
                    to live, philosophically serene was his imperturable contemplation of death. He had achieved not
                    only mastery in the complex art of painting but also mastery in the even more complicated art of
                    living. This made his life both an inspiration and a benediction to those who knew him.
            Richards settled in 
                        Denver
                     where he might have the medical care of his devoted friend and former physician, Carl
                    Ruedi, who for years had been the leading doctor at Davos, 
                        Switzerland
                    . For a brief period, Richards was director of the 
                        Denver
                     Art League but declining strength necessitated the resigning of this post. He lived in
                    his tent house and between frequent periods of rest, he continued to paint, directed an art class of
                    young ladies, and occasionally received callers. A short time before his death, two old
                    friends—James Whitcomb Riley and Reverend Myron Reed—-spent the afternoon with
                    him. When they left in the gathering twilight after a delightful visit, he called out to them
                    "Good night, old friends, good night—for there is no good-by."42 After his death on November 30, 1893, Riley sent to Mrs. Richards the
                    following sonnet in memory of his "master friend:"
            
                    AT HIS WINTRY TENT
                    Not only master of his art was he, But master of his spirit—winged indeed For
                        lordliest height, yet poised for lowliest need Of those, alas! upheld less buoyantly. He gloried
                        even in adversity, And won his Country's plaudits, and the meed Of old world praise, as
                        one loathe to succeed While others were denied like victory. Though passed, I count him still my
                        master-friend, Invincible, as through his mortal flight, The laughing light of faith still in
                        his eye As, at his wintry tent, pitched at the end Of life, he gaily called to me "Good
                        night, Old friend, good night—for there is no goodbye."43
               
                
            
               
                  42 Burnet, Art and Artists of Indiana, 155.
               
                  43
                        The Complete Works of James Whitcomb Riley, IV, 274.
            
         
         
         
            Population of the Whitewater Valley, 1850-1860
            
                    Chelsea L. Lawlis
                    ∗
                
            Sectional migration to the Whitewater Valley had decreased by 1850. It was no longer as important as
                    it had been the first part of the nineteenth century. Immigration from the Southern states and from
                    the Middle Atlantic states did not maintain its earlier rate and a slight increase in the number of
                    New Englanders was not large enough to affect the general situation.
            The first settlers of this region were from the Southern states, and the Southerners remained an
                    important group in the population in 1850. The original census returns for that year reveal that
                    there were 9,720 persons, or 16.1 per cent of the total population, living in the valley who had
                    been born in the Southern states. When one considers that many of the original Southern settlers had
                    died by this time and that many Hoosier children had been born to parents of Southern birth, it is
                    possible to obtain some idea of the importance of this element. With the exception of the North
                    Central states, this section contributed the largest number to the population of the valley in 1850.
                    Since there was a large percentage of Quakers who migrated from 
                        North Carolina
                     to the valley, one might conclude that the largest body of Southerners came from that
                    state. Only 
                        Wayne County
                    , however, was characterized by a high percentage of North Carolinians. Considering the
                    valley as a whole, it contained 2,696 persons who were born in 
                        North Carolina
                    , and 
                        Virginia
                     with 2,666 ranked second. Virginians were scattered through all four counties, but the
                    largest number resided in 
                        Wayne County
                    . Other Southern states which contributed in strength were 
                        Kentucky
                     with 1,588, 
                        Maryland
                     with 1,220, 
                        Tennessee
                     with 553, 
                        South Carolina
                     with 451, and 
                        Delaware
                     with 436. The larger number of Kentuckians found their way to 
                        Fayette County
                    , while many from 
                  Maryland, Tennessee
               , and 
                        Delaware
                     settled in 
                        Wayne County
                    , and the larger number of South Carolinians migrated to 
                        Franklin County
                    .
            
               
                  ∗ Chelsea L. Lawlis is a member of the 
                            Carlisle
                         High School Faculty, 
                            Carlisle
                        , Indiana. This is the concluding article of a series of six published continuously
                        since March, 1947. It is the revision of a master's thesis in the department of history
                        at Indiana University, 1946, under the direction of John D. Barnhart.
            
            
            
               NATIVITY OF POPULATION OF WHITEWATER VALLEY BY COUNTIES, 18501
               
               By number and percentage of total population
               
                  
                  
                            
                                
                                    Fayette
                                
                            
                        
                  
                            
                                
                                    Franklin
                                
                            
                        
                  
                            Union
                        
                  
                            
                                
                                    Wayne
                                
                            
                        
                  
                            Total
                        
               
               
                  
                            States
                        
                  
                            No.
                        
                  %
                  
                            No.
                        
                  %
                  
                            No.
                        
                  %
                  
                            No.
                        
                  %
                  
                            No.
                        
                  %
               
               
                  Middle Atlantic
                  959
                  9.4
                  1644
                  9.2
                  642
                  9.2
                  2936
                  11.6
                  6180
                  10.2
               
               
                  N.J
                  130
                  
                  434
                  
                  191
                  
                  430
                  
                  1185
                  
               
               
                  N.Y
                  272
                  
                  317
                  
                  33
                  
                  268
                  
                  890
                  
               
               
                  Penn
                  557
                  
                  893
                  
                  418
                  
                  2237
                  
                  4105
                  
               
               
                  New England
                  89
                  .9
                  169
                  .9
                  73
                  1.1
                  143
                  .5
                  474
                  .8
               
               
                  Conn
                  15
                  
                  60
                  
                  2
                  
                  20
                  
                  97
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Maine
                            
                        
                  12
                  
                  19
                  
                  5
                  
                  13
                  
                  49
                  
               
               
                  Mass
                  29
                  
                  58
                  
                  53
                  
                  52
                  
                  192
                  
               
               
                  N.H
                  5
                  
                  7
                  
                  2
                  
                  19
                  
                  33
                  
               
               
                  R.I
                  3
                  
                  1
                  
                  1
                  
                  9
                  
                  14
                  
               
               
                  Vt.
                  25
                  
                  24
                  
                  10
                  
                  30
                  
                  89
                  
               
               
                  North Central
                  7100
                  69.6
                  1676
                  65.
                  5081
                  72.9
                  16123
                  63.7
                  39980
                  66.1
               
               
                  Ill
                  10
                  
                  22
                  
                  17
                  
                  23
                  
                  72
                  
               
               
                  Ind
                  6109
                  
                  9569
                  
                  4103
                  
                  13449
                  
                  33230
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Iowa
                            
                        
                  10
                  
                  19
                  
                  7
                  
                  16
                  
                  52
                  
               
               
                  Mich
                  3
                  
                  6
                  
                  1
                  
                  17
                  
                  27
                  
               
               
                  Mo
                  3
                  
                  20
                  
                  0
                  
                  13
                  
                  36
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  964
                  
                  2040
                  
                  953
                  
                  2605
                  
                  6562
                  
               
               
                  Wis
                  1
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Southern
                  1680
                  16.5
                  2112
                  11.8
                  982
                  14.1
                  4946
                  19.6
                  9720
                  16.1
               
               
                  Ala
                  4
                  
                  0
                  
                  4
                  
                  12
                  
                  20
                  
               
               
                  Ark
                  0
                  
                  2
                  
                  0
                  
                  2
                  
                  4
                  
               
               
                  Carolina
                  0
                  
                  17
                  
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
                  18
                  
               
               
                  Del
                  94
                  
                  148
                  
                  14
                  
                  180
                  
                  436
                  
               
               
                  D.C
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  11
                  
                  11
                  
               
               
                  Ga
                  9
                  
                  6
                  
                  2
                  
                  20
                  
                  37
                  
               
               
                  Ky
                  516
                  
                  460
                  
                  1.40
                  
                  472
                  
                  1588
                  
               
               
                  La
                  4
                  
                  5
                  
                  1
                  
                  1
                  
                  11
                  
               
               
                  Md
                  247
                  
                  406
                  
                  84
                  
                  483
                  
                  1220
                  
               
               
                  Miss
                  0
                  
                  5
                  
                  0
                  
                  2
                  
                  7
                  
               
               
                  N.C
                  206
                  
                  188
                  
                  174
                  
                  2128
                  
                  2696
                  
               
               
                  S.C
                  118
                  
                  136
                  
                  82
                  
                  115
                  
                  451
                  
               
               
                  Tenn
                  70
                  
                  110
                  
                  86
                  
                  287
                  
                  553
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Texas
                            
                        
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  2
                  
                  0
                  
                  2
                  
               
               
                  Va
                  412
                  
                  629
                  
                  393
                  
                  1232
                  
                  2666
                  
               
               
                  Unknown
                  74
                  .7
                  109
                  .6
                  15
                  .2
                  151
                  .6
                  349
                  .6
               
               
                  Foreign
                  299
                  2.9
                  2237
                  12.5
                  171
                  2.5
                  1022
                  4.0
                  3729
                  6.2
               
               
                  Africa
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Brit W. Indies
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
                  2
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  6
                  
                  17
                  
                  3
                  
                  14
                  
                  40
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  22
                  
                  189
                  
                  25
                  
                  100
                  
                  336
                  
               
               
                  Europe
                  2
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  2
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                  5
                  
                  48
                  
                  0
                  
                  8
                  
                  61
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  122
                  
                  1672
                  
                  27
                  
                  653
                  
                  2474
                  
               
               
                  Holland
                  1
                  
                  6
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  7
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                  119
                  
                  263
                  
                  95
                  
                  217
                  
                  704
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Italy
                            
                        
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
                  1
                  
                  3
                  
                  5
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Scotland
                            
                        
                  12
                  
                  30
                  
                  17
                  
                  21
                  
                  80
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Switzerland
                            
                        
                  0
                  
                  4
                  
                  3
                  
                  3
                  
                  10
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Wales
                            
                        
                  0
                  
                  5
                  
                  0
                  
                  2
                  
                  7
                  
               
               
                  Total
                  10201
                  
                  17947
                  
                  6964
                  
                  25320
                  1
                  60432
                  
               
            
            
               
                  1 Original Returns of Seventh Census. 1850. 
                     Fayette. Franklin
                  . Union. and 
                            Wayne
                         Counties. Indiana (microfilm in Indiana University Library. 
                            Bloomington
                        . Indiana).
            
            
            
               NATIVITY OF POPULATION OF WHITEWATER VALLEY BY COUNTIES, 18602
               
               By number and percentage of total population
               
                  
                  
                            
                                
                                    Fayette
                                
                            
                        
                  
                            
                                
                                    Franklin
                                
                            
                        
                  
                            Union
                        
                  
                            
                                
                                    Wayne
                                
                            
                        
                  
                            Total
                        
               
               
                  
                            States
                        
                  
                            No.
                        
                  %
                  
                            No.
                        
                  %
                  
                            No.
                        
                  %
                  
                            No.
                        
                  %
                  
                            No.
                        
                  %
               
               
                  Middle Atlantic
                  795
                  7.8
                  1133
                  5.8
                  510
                  7.2
                  2998
                  10.1
                  5436
                  8.2
               
               
                  N.J
                  86
                  
                  292
                  
                  144
                  
                  445
                  
                  967
                  
               
               
                  N.T
                  212
                  
                  216
                  
                  37
                  
                  358
                  
                  822
                  
               
               
                  Perm
                  497
                  
                  626
                  
                  329
                  
                  2195
                  
                  3647
                  
               
               
                  New England
                  60
                  .6
                  84
                  .4
                  64
                  .9
                  321
                  1.1
                  529
                  .8
               
               
                  Conn
                  21
                  
                  36
                  
                  4
                  
                  51
                  
                  112
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Maine
                            
                        
                  4
                  
                  7
                  
                  6
                  
                  33
                  
                  50
                  
               
               
                  Mass
                  18
                  
                  24
                  
                  44
                  
                  150
                  
                  236
                  
               
               
                  N.H
                  3
                  
                  2
                  
                  0
                  
                  23
                  
                  28
                  
               
               
                  R.I
                  0
                  
                  2
                  
                  0
                  
                  16
                  
                  18
                  
               
               
                  Vt
                  14
                  
                  13
                  
                  10
                  
                  48
                  
                  85
                  
               
               
                  North central
                  7368
                  72.0
                  13719
                  70.0
                  5390
                  75.8
                  19882
                  67.2
                  46359
                  69.7
               
               
                  Ill
                  21
                  
                  18
                  
                  37
                  
                  50
                  
                  126
                  
               
               
                  Ind
                  6453
                  
                  11713
                  
                  4353
                  
                  16371
                  
                  38890
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Iowa
                            
                        
                  16
                  
                  24
                  
                  8
                  
                  40
                  
                  88
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Kansas
                            
                        
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mich
                  3
                  
                  4
                  
                  6
                  
                  29
                  
                  42
                  
               
               
                  Minn
                  1
                  
                  1
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  2
                  
               
               
                  Mo
                  5
                  
                  14
                  
                  6
                  
                  19
                  
                  43
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  862
                  
                  1943
                  
                  980
                  
                  3371
                  
                  7156
                  
               
               
                  Wis
                  7
                  
                  1
                  
                  1
                  
                  2
                  
                  11
                  
               
               
                  Southern
                  1243
                  12.2
                  1323
                  6.8
                  679
                  9.5
                  3757
                  12.7
                  7002
                  10.5
               
               
                  Ala
                  2
                  
                  0
                  
                  2
                  
                  8
                  
                  12
                  
               
               
                  Ark
                  0
                  
                  2
                  
                  1
                  
                  1
                  
                  4
                  
               
               
                  Del
                  53
                  
                  84
                  
                  11
                  
                  141
                  
                  289
                  
               
               
                  D.C
                  4
                  
                  2
                  
                  5
                  
                  16
                  
                  27
                  
               
               
                  Fla
                  1
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
                  2
                  
               
               
                  Ga
                  4
                  
                  2
                  
                  2
                  
                  13
                  
                  21
                  
               
               
                  Ky
                  431
                  
                  379
                  
                  107
                  
                  444
                  
                  1361
                  
               
               
                  La
                  3
                  
                  20
                  
                  2
                  
                  8
                  
                  28
                  
               
               
                  Md
                  153
                  
                  257
                  
                  38
                  
                  490
                  
                  938
                  
               
               
                  Miss
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  3
                  
                  1
                  
                  4
                  
               
               
                  N.C
                  166
                  
                  86
                  
                  139
                  
                  1622
                  
                  1913
                  
               
               
                  S.C
                  74
                  
                  68
                  
                  66
                  
                  62
                  
                  270
                  
               
               
                  Tenn
                  42
                  
                  63
                  
                  45
                  
                  166
                  
                  316
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Texas
                            
                        
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
                  2
                  
                  2
                  
                  5
                  
               
               
                  Va
                  310
                  
                  359
                  
                  256
                  
                  887
                  
                  1812
                  
               
               
                  Unknown
                  45
                  .4
                  171
                  .9
                  8
                  .1
                  87
                  .3
                  311
                  .5
               
               
                  Foreign
                  720
                  7.0
                  3142
                  16.1
                  466
                  6.6
                  2537
                  8.6
                  6864
                  10.3
               
               
                  Brit. W. Indies
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  5
                  
                  23
                  
                  0
                  
                  18
                  
                  45
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  57
                  
                  228
                  
                  16
                  
                  243
                  
                  544
                  
               
               
                  Europe
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                  23
                  
                  116
                  
                  2
                  
                  25
                  
                  166
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  251
                  
                  2433
                  
                  85
                  
                  1296
                  
                  4065
                  
               
               
                  Holland
                  2
                  
                  4
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  6
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                  359
                  
                  281
                  
                  342
                  
                  892
                  
                  1874
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Italy
                            
                        
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Norway
                  1
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Poland
                            
                        
                  1
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Russia
                  0
                  
                  4
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  
                  4
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Scotland
                            
                        
                  19
                  
                  21
                  
                  12
                  
                  41
                  
                  93
                  
               
               
                  Sweden
                  1
                  
                  0
                  
                  1
                  
                  0
                  
                  2
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Switzerland
                            
                        
                  0
                  
                  25
                  
                  6
                  
                  17
                  
                  48
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Wales
                            
                        
                  1
                  
                  6
                  
                  1
                  
                  4
                  
                  12
                  
               
               
                  Total
                  10231
                  
                  19572
                  
                  7116
                  
                  29582
                  
                  66501
                  
               
            
            
               
                  2 Original Returns of Eighth Census, 1860, 
                     Fayette, Franklin
                  , Union and 
                            Wayne
                         Counties, Indiana (microfilm in Indiana University Library, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana).
            
            
            By 1860, it was quite evident that the migration from the Southern states had sharply declined. No
                    longer were there enough new immigrants arriving to replace those who had either lived out their
                    allotted span of years or moved on westward. Whereas, in 1850, Southerners accounted for sixteen and
                    one-tenth per cent of the population, in 1860, this figure had dropped to ten and five-tenths per
                    cent. Only 7,002 persons of Southern origin resided in the valley in 1860, yet this total was larger
                    than that of any other section except the North Central states. It is interesting to note that in
                    1860 persons born in 
                  Delaware, Kentucky, Maryland,
                            North Carolina, Tennessee
               , and 
                        Virginia
                     existed in the largest numbers in 
                        Wayne County
                    . The greatest number of South Carolinians lived in 
                        Fayette County
                     at this time. It would appear, therefore, that 
                        Wayne County
                     had more power to attract people than any other county in the Whitewater Valley. It is
                    likely that her rapid industrialization was in no small way responsible. 
                        Wayne County
                     actually had more persons from 
                        Maryland
                     in 1860 than in 1850. The states of the lower south did not contribute many persons to
                    the Whitewater Valley.
            The Middle Atlantic states have played a not inconsiderable part in the settlement of the valley.
                    Many persons who had lived for some time in either 
                  New
                            York, New Jersey
               , or 
                        Pennsylvania
                     had migrated to this region, but these states have contributed in still another way.
                    Through this middle region passed most of the people who had emigrated from Europe. An examination
                    of the census returns reveals that many children of foreign parents were born in one or the other of
                    these states, especially 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , where Germans often stopped for a while before migrating further westward. 
                        New Jersey
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , which were in a direct eastward line with Indiana, contributed the largest number of
                    people to the valley from this section.
            In 1850, there were 6,180 persons of Middle Atlantic origin living in the four counties or ten and
                    two-tenths per cent of the total population. Of this total, 4,105 were born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , 1,185 in 
                        New Jersey
                    , and 890 were natives of 
                        New York
                    . Nearly one-half of this group, chiefly Pennsylvanians, had gone to 
                  Wayne County. Franklin
                    County
                contained the greatest number from 
                        New York
                     and 
                        New Jersey
                    . The census of 1860 shows a total of 5,436 persons who were born in the Middle Atlantic
                    states or a decrease of two per cent  since 1850. 
                        Pennsylvania
                     still contributed the largest number, and 
                        Wayne County
                     had again managed to attract the largest number of people of all three states.
            People from New 
                        England
                     did not migrate to the Whitewater Valley in force. This is borne out by the census
                    figures, but a curious fact comes to light when these figures are examined closely. Although the
                    Southern and Middle Atlantic states had experienced definite losses between 1850 and 1860, there
                    were actually more New Englanders in the valley in 1860 than in 1850. In 1850, there were 474
                    persons of New 
                        England
                     origin and 529 ten years later. 
                        Massachusetts
                     contributed the largest number at both times. The 1850 census shows that a majority of
                    the people from New 
                        England
                     resided in 
                        Franklin County
                    . It is interesting to note that in 1850 
                        Wayne County
                     had only 143 New Englanders, but in 1860, there were 321 or more than double the 1850
                    figure.
            Since the Whitewater Valley was in one of the North Central states, it is quite obvious that this
                    region would progressively contribute more inhabitants to the valley. By the year 1850, fifty-five
                    per cent of the inhabitants were born in Indiana. The only other North Central state which
                    contributed a significant percentage was 
                        Ohio
                    . Persons born in the latter state comprised ten and eight-tenths per cent of the total
                    population. 
                        Ohio
                    's importance was due to the fact that she was just across the state boundary
                    line to the east and that she lay along the main route of travel to Indiana. Some of the early 
                        Quaker
                     settlers had lived in 
                        Ohio
                     before coming to Indiana and many other people moved to Indiana after having resided in 
                        Ohio
                     for a while. There were actually more former residents of 
                        Ohio
                     in the valley in 1860 than in 1850. No other North Central state contributed much to
                    the population of the valley because most of the states lay farther west and migration was
                    proceeding in that direction. The year 1860 witnessed a further increase in the number and
                    percentage of Hoosiers in the valley. In that year sixty-nine and seven-tenths per cent of the
                    people were born in the North Central states and fifty-eight and five-tenths per cent in Indiana.
            Although sectional migration to the Whitewater Valley had almost stopped, foreign migration during
                    the 1850's definitely showed an upward trend. The majority of the immigrants were German
                    and Irish, but other nations sent small  quotas. The famine in 
                        Ireland
                     in the latter part of the forties had started an unprecedented emigration. Since the
                    evil conditions on board the "fever ships" had been eliminated by a British
                    statute of 1849-1850 and American statutes of 1847 and 1548, passage across the ocean was now less
                    rigorous for the Irish, These laws provided that more space should be allotted to each passenger,
                    that a sufficient amount of food be placed on board, and that cooking places be provided for the
                        passengers.3
            
            Many Irishmen located in the valley to work on the canal when it was in the process of construction.
                    Although it is difficult to tell how many Irish there were in the valley at that time, the census of
                    1850 reveals that 704 were living in the four counties of the Whitewater Valley in the latter year.
                    This total, however, comprised only one and two-tenths per cent of the entire population. More than
                    one-third of this number resided in 
                        Franklin County
                    .
            Ten years later the number of Irish had risen to 1,874 now two and eight-tenths per cent of the total
                    population. 
                        Wayne County
                     had more than one-half of the Irish and more than twice as many as any other county.
                    This would seem to bear out the practice of the Irish of migrating to the cities.
            The great German migration, which began in the thirties, was to continue in strength until the close
                    of the period covered by this study. Numerous causes for previous migrations may be attributed to
                    economic, political, and religiour factors, and these were still a vital force in causing the
                    emigration of the fifties. During the years 1847-1848 and 1852-1855, there were potato crop failures
                    in certain areas of 
                        Germany
                     and a rise in the price of rye and other foodstuffs. In the period from 1850 to 1853, a
                    vintage failure occurred in Württemberg. A political factor which gave the German a
                    motive for migration was the revolution of 1848, which caused large numbers of Germans, including
                    Carl Schurz, to flee from their native land. Two additional factors were involved, both of which
                    made travel less difficult. The first was the use of steamships, which necessarily shortened the
                    ocean voyage, and the second was the railroad, which now carried the German to his destination in
                    the interior of the 
                        United States
                    .4
                    
                  
                     3 Edward E. Hale, Letters on Irish Emigration (
                                Boston
                            , 1852), 11-12, 15.
                  
                     4 17,rederick J. Turner "German Immigration into the
                                    
                        United States, Chicago, Illinois
                     ,
                                Record Herald, September 4, 1901.
               
                     German emigration is supposed to have reached its peak about
                        1854.5
            
            Of the 2,474 Germans living in the valley in 1850, one thousand six hundred and seventy-two lived in 
                        Franklin County
                    , chiefly in Ray, Highland, and 
                        Brookville
                     townships. In this county, they comprised more than nine per cent of the population in
                    1850. 
                        Wayne County
                     had attracted a large number but less than half as many as 
                  Franklin County. Union
                    County
               , which had some Germans as early as 1826, had failed to lure a large
                    number at this time. Ten years later, in 1860, there were 1,591 more Germans in the valley, bringing
                    the total to 4,065 or six and one-tenth per cent of the total population. While 
                        Wayne County
                     boasted an increase of more than six hundred Germans during this particular period, 
                        Franklin County
                     showed a still larger increase and thus retained the leadership in the number of
                    Germans. In the latter county, the Germans now accounted for twelve and four-tenths per cent of the
                    total population. Since 
                        Franklin
                     was predominantly an agricultural county, it would appear that the German was more
                    likely to be drawn to the country than to the city.
            The English did not migrate in large numbers to the Whitewater Valley. 
                        England
                     had sent many of her sons to America in an earlier period, but during the time in which
                    the valley was settled the English did not constitute an important direct factor in its settlement.
                    The census of 1850 shows 336 Englishmen living in the valley, 189 of which were in 
                        Franklin County
                    . The total in 1860 had reached 544, but at this time 
                        Wayne County
                     contained the largest number of English, her English-born population having more than
                    doubled.
            The number of foreign-born of other nations was insignificant in both 1850 and 1360, in neither case
                    forming more than five-tenths of one per cent of the entire population. In 1850, there were small
                    numbers of people from Africa, the British West Indies, 
                  Canada, France
               , Holland, 
                  Italy, Scotland, Switzerland
               , and 
                        Wales
                    . In 1860 most of these countries were still represented, and there were also a few from
                    Norway, 
                        Poland
                    , and Sweden. Most of the perviously named countries showed increases, but none of them
                    provided a significant number of immigrants.
            
               
                  5 Edith Abbott, Historical Aspects of the Immigration
                        Problem (
                            Chicago
                        , 1926), 311.
            
            
            By 1860, one of the four counties of the Whitewater Valley, 
                        Wayne
                    , was the leading agricultural and industrial county of the state. It had 308
                    manufacturing establishments, employing 1,336 persons, and manufactured products valued at
                    $2,761,010, leading all other Indiana counties in each of these items. The other three
                    counties were less highly industrialized.6 As the leading agricultural county,
                    it contained farms valued at $11,583,148 and farm implements valued at
                    $309,023. These figures were nearly twice as high as those of the other three
                        counties.7
            
            The Indiana State Gazetteer and Business Directory for 1862-1863 described 
                        Richmond
                     as the leading commercial and manufacturing center in eastern Indiana, containing two
                    railroads and having an estimated population of ten to twelve thousand. It is interesting to observe
                    that 
                        Brookville
                    , for which such high hopes had been held in earlier years was now described merely as a
                    "post town, and the capital of 
                        Franklin county
                    ."8
                    
                        Connersville
                    , the county seat of 
                        Fayette County
                    , now boasted a population of three thousand and specialized in milling, pork packing,
                    and woolen manufacturing.9
            
            As a sidelight on the study of agriculture and industry in the valley, it is interesting to note what
                    sectional and foreign groups owned the real estate. New Englanders, who comprised only eight-tenths
                    of one per cent of the population in both 1850 and 1860, owned three and four-tenths per cent of the
                    real estate in the former year and two and three-tenths per cent in the latter year. Natives of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , who formed the largest New 
                        England
                     group, owned the largest part of the property held by New Englanders. Persons born in
                    the Middle Atlantic states comprised ten and two-tenths per cent of the population in 1850 and owned
                    fourteen and two-tenths per cent of the property. Ten years later those from the Middle Atlantic
                    region represented eight and two-tenths per cent of the total number of people and possessed twelve
                    and eight-tenths per cent of the real estate.
            
               
                  6
                        Eighth Census of the 
                                United States
                            , 1860, 111, Statistics of Manufactures, 142-143.
               
                  7 Eighth Census of the 
                            United States
                        , 1860, 11, Statistics of Agriculture, 42.
               
                  8 George W. Hawes, Indiana State Gazetteer and Business
                            Directory for 1862 and 1863 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, n.d.), 33, 235. 
                            Richmond
                         had a population of 6,603 in 1860.
               
                  9
                        Ibid., 54; Frederic L. Barrows (ed.), History of 
                                Fayette County
                            , Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1917), 549.
            
            
            An interesting situation presents itself when the Southern states are considered. Since most of the
                    valley was originally settled by Southerners, it is logical to assume that a large portion of the
                    real estate would be owned by them. This is borne out by the census figures. In 1850 people of
                    Southern origin, comprising sixteen and one-tenth per cent of the population, owned real property
                    valued at forty-three and nine-tenths per cent of the total evaluation of the valley. In. 
                        Wayne County
                    , they owned more than fifty per cent of the real estate. Ten years later, ten and
                    one-tenth per cent of the people were Southerners, and this group possessed thirty-four and
                    four-tenths per cent of the real property. It is likely that some of the property which had formerly
                    been listed as belonging to Southerners was now in the hands of their children who were born in
                    Indiana. It might be imagined that North Carolinians would own the greater part of the property
                    since they were the largest group from the South, but this is not the case. In both years Virginians
                    owned a larger amount than any other Southern group, although people from 
                        North Carolina
                     were a close second. Persons from 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Maryland
                     owned sizeable quantities of real estate. It should be pointed out that even though
                    Southerners owned a smaller percentage of the property in 1860, the total value of the property
                    owned by them increased by more than four million dollars.
            It would naturally be expected that the total amount of property owned by people born in Indiana
                    would increase since real estate usually passed to the children when the parents died. The census
                    figures show that Hoosiers were comparatively poor in real estate, probably because most of them
                    were young and had not yet accumulated a great amount of property. The census of 1850 reveals that
                    persons born in Indiana comprised fifty-five per cent of the population in 1850, yet owned only
                    twelve and one-tenth per cent of the total real estate. By 1860, Hoosiers made up fifty-eight and
                    five-tenths per cent of the total number of people, but they owned twenty-three and eight-tenths per
                    cent of the property. Persons born in 
                        Ohio
                    , who comprised ten and eight-tenths per cent of the population in both 1850 and 1860,
                    owned nine and three-tenths and eleven and three-tenths, respectively, in these two census years.
            Outside of the native Hoosiers, the foreigners were the poorest group. It must be remembered that
                    many foreign immigrants were practically destitute when they arrived in this  country. In 1850, they comprised six and two-tenths per cent of the
                    poulation and owned seven and one-tenth per cent of the real estate. The Germans were the poorest of
                    the three largest groups represented—the English, the Irish, and the Germans. The picture
                    was reversed, however, in 1860 for the
            
               Ownership of Real Estate of Sectional and National Groups10
               
               
                  
                  1850
                  1860
                  
               
               
                  
                            States
                        
                  % of population
                  
                  % of real estate
                  
                  % of population
                  
                  % of real estate
                  
               
               
                  Middle Atlantic
                  10.2
                  23.9
                  8.2
                  19.8
               
               
                  N.J
                  2.0
                  6.8
                  1.5
                  4.7
               
               
                  N.Y
                  1.4
                  2.9
                  1.2
                  2.9
               
               
                  Penn
                  6.8
                  14.2
                  5.6
                  12.8
               
               
                  New England
                  .8
                  3.4
                  .8
                  2.3
               
               
                  Conn
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Maine
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mass
                  
                  1.9
                  
                  1.0
               
               
                  N.H.
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  R.I
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Vt
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  North Central
                  66.1
                  21.4
                  69.7
                  35.1
               
               
                  Ill
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ind
                  55.0
                  12.1
                  58.5
                  23.8
               
               
                  
                            
                                Iowa
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mich
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mo.
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  10.8
                  9.3
                  10.8
                  11.3
               
               
                  Wis
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Southern
                  16.1
                  43.9
                  10.5
                  34.4
               
               
                  Ala
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Carolina
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Del
                  
                  2.2
                  
                  1.5
               
               
                  D.C
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ga
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ky
                  2.6
                  7.3
                  2.0
                  6.2
               
               
                  La
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Md
                  2.0
                  5.2
                  1.4
                  3.7
               
               
                  N.C
                  4.5
                  11.6
                  2.9
                  8.4
               
               
                  S.C
                  
                  2.8
                  
                  2.3
               
               
                  Tenn
                  
                  1.9
                  
                  1.9
               
               
                  Va
                  4.4
                  11.9
                  2.7
                  10.1
               
               
                  Unknown
                  .6
                  .3
                  .3
                  .3
               
               
                  Foreign
                  6.2
                  7.1
                  10.3
                  8.1
               
               
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  
                  1.4
                  
                  1.3
               
               
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  4.1
                  2.8
                  6.1
                  4.4
               
               
                  Holland
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                  1.2
                  2.0
                  2 8
                  1 8
               
               
                  
                            
                                Italy
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Scotland
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Switzerland
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Wales
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                  10 Original Returns of Seventh Census, 1860, 
                     Fayette, Franklin
                  , Union, and 
                            Wayne
                         Counties, Indiana; Original Returns of Eighth Census, 1860, 
                     Fayette, Franklin
                  , Union, and 
                            Wayne
                         Counties, Indiana.
            
            
            Irish then possessed less property per person than any of the three. By this time, the foreign
                    element comprised ten and three-tenths per cent of the total population and owned only eight and
                    one-tenth per cent of the total real estate. This is probably due to the great influx of immigrants
                    during the fifties, many of whom had no property. The real estate owned by persons from these three
                    countries was chiefly in 
                        Franklin
                     and 
                        Wayne
                     counties.
            The Whitewater Valley was destined to witness an important event during this decade—the
                    introduction of the railroad. The canal had not proved to be very practical, especially when it was
                    known that it was easily damaged by floods. Elijah Coffin, speaking of a flood in 1853, said that
                    the canal was damaged so badly that it was somewhat doubtful if it would ever be repaired again.11 It was repaired, but by 1861 it was no longer considered useful. Finally in
                    1865, the Whitewater Valley Railroad was built along its towpath, which put it out of business.12
            
            The desire for railroads within the valley was quite a natural one since railroad-building had been
                    going on in the East for several years. The increased industrialization of the valley, together with
                    the limited usefulness of the canal, provided ample justification for the introduction of the
                    railroad. Many had preferred the building of railroads several years before, but this group lost out
                    to those in favor of a canal. Now they were to have their turn. As early as 1846, the 
                        Richmond
                     and Miami Railroad was incorporated, but it was not completed to 
                        Richmond
                     until 1853, when on March 18, the first train arrived.13 In the
                    same year, the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     (Indiana Central) was completed and during the nest year the 
                        Newcastle
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     was built.14 The 
                  Cincinnati, Hamilton
               , and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad, begun in 1852, ran through Union and 
                        Fayette
                     counties and was completed to 
                        Connersville
                     in 1864.15
                    
                        Franklin County
                     had only a few miles of track during this period—the 
                        Chicago
                     Division 
                  
                     11 Mary C. Johnson (ed.), The Life of Elijah Coffin
                                    (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1863), 106.
                  
                     12 Logan Esarey, "Internal Improvements in early
                            Indiana," Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                             Indiana, 1895-), V (1915), 122.
                  
                     13 Interstate Publishing Co., History of 
                                    Wayne County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), I, 456; 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium, 1831-1931, 100th Anniversary, January 1,
                            1931, p. 24.
                  
                     14 Interstate Publishing Co., History of 
                                    Wayne County
                                , Indiana, 1, 456, 458.
                  
                     15 J. H. Beers and Co., Atlas of 
                                    Union County
                                , Indiana, (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 12; Barrows, History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                , Indiana, 280.
               
                     of the Big Four, which ran through the southwestern part of the
                        county.16
            
            In the field of religion it appears that the Methodists were the most successful denomination during
                    the first half century, if the number of churches can be used as a criterion. This sect possessed
                    sixty churches in 1860, with the largest number in 
                        Wayne County
                    , where there was such a conflict between the Friends and Methodists thirty of forty
                    years previously. The Baptists,. who were the earliest sect in the valley, had nineteen churches and
                    the Friends boasted fourteen, thirteen being in 
                        Wayne County
                     alone. Lutherans and Christians each had eleven churches.17
            
            One development which occurred at the close of this period demonstrates unrest in the ranks of the
                    Quakers. In 1860, a group of young people met and formed a group known as the Young Friends, which
                    opposed the older, conservative element. One of the leaders was Charles F. Coffin. That this group
                    was destined to become important is seen from the following description of a meeting held October 7,
                    1860, and attended by one thousand persons. 
                        The old Meeting House, crowded with people, and dim with lighted lamps, was a weird, strange
                            sight. Never before was such a sight seen in a Friends' Meeting House. There was
                            even a pathetic attempt to sing a hymn; but even this unheard of procedure failed to check
                            the meeting. The conservative element was horrified, but the matter was in greater hands
                            than theirs and though they were outraged they were helpless.18
                  
                    
            
            One week later the first regularly organized prayer meeting ever held among Indiana Friends was held
                    at the house of Charles F. Coffin. These meetings continued thereafter every Sunday night for nearly
                    seven years in Coffin's house. Since they were held in a private house, the Meeting could
                    exercise no control over them. Nevertheless, they encountered formidable opposition from the
                    conservative element. The Young Friends began proselyting and using revivalistic and evangelical
                    methods. This naturally led into the field of social work—in which the Young Friends were
                    to play a large part in the coming Civil War.
            The most important change in education during this decade came about as a result of the new
                    constitution of 1851 
                  
                     16 August J. Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana, (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1915), 258.
                  
                     17 Eighth Census of the 
                                United States
                            , 1860, IV, Vital Statistics, 381-388.
                  
                     18 Mary C. Johnson and Percival B. Coffin (comps.), Charles F. Coffin, A 
                                    Quaker
                                 Pioneer (
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, 1923), 116-118, 126, 175.
               
                     and subsequent legislation. This constitution provided for a
                    general and uniform system of common schools with free tuition. A common school fund was to be set
                    up with income from the following sources: congressional township funds, surplus revenue funds,
                    saline funds, bank tax funds, proceeds from the sale of county seminaries plus their properties,
                    fines, forfeitures, lands escheated to the state, proceeds from the sale of lands granted to the
                    state, and taxes on the property of corporations.19
            
            A law, which was passed in 1852 requiring the levy of a state tax, abolished the congressional
                    township system, erected civil townships, and empowered trustees to build schoolhouses and manage
                    school affairs.20 By 1857 nearly all of the townships in 
                        Wayne County
                     had new schoolhouses, many of them brick.21 The era of free schools
                    meant a decline in the importance of academies and seminaries—in fact, it sounded their
                    death knell. An experiment in higher education was made by the Methodists when they opened 
                        Brookville
                     College in 1851, but it lasted only until 1873.22 In 1859, the
                    Friends' Boarding School at 
                        Richmond
                     became Earlham College.23
            
            Two new forces which influenced the press were at work during this period—the temperance
                    movement and the rise of the Republican party. A wave of temperature reform which swept the country
                    in the early fifties resulted in the establishment of several papers. There was one such paper in 
                        Fayette County
                    , the Ladies Temperance Wreath, managed by Mrs. Lavinia Brownlee and
                    Marie Louise Chitwood.24 Another paper which espoused the temperance cause was
                    the Liberty Herald, begun in 1852 in 
                        Union County
                    . It also stood for Free Soil principles. This same paper was a Republican sheet in
                        1857.25 New papers of 
                        Wayne County
                     at this time were the Broad-Axe of Freedom and the Grubbing Hoe of
                    Truth, the Indiana True Republican, the 
                  
                            Cambridge City
                         News, and the 
                  
                            Cambridge City
                         Bulletin, a Republican organ.26 In 
                        Franklin
                    
                    
                  
                     19 Charles Kettleborough, Constitution Making in
                            Indiana, Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1916-), 1, 346-348.
                  
                     20
                            Revised Statutes of the State of Indiana, 1852, 1, 439-457.
                  
                     21 Interstate Publishing Co., History of 
                                    Wayne County
                                , Indiana, 1, 487-488.
                  
                     22 Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana, 381-384, 396.
                  
                     23 Fassett A. Cotton, Education in Indiana
                            (Bluffton, Indiana, 1934), 86.
                  
                     24 Barrows, History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                , Indiana, 467.
                  
                     25 J. H. Beers and Co., Atlas of 
                                    Union County
                                , Indiana, 13.
                  
                     26 Interstate Publishing Co., History of 
                                    Wayne County
                                , Indiana, 1, 629, 536.
               
                     County the 
                  
                            Brookville
                         American was revived in 1858 and lasted until 1861.27
            
            The population of the Whitewater Valley showed a net increase of 6,069 persons during the decade
                    1850-1860; it rose from 60,432 to 66,501. Two of the counties—
                        Fayette
                     and Union—showed almost no gain, but 
                        Wayne
                     increased by more than 4,000 and 
                        Franklin
                     by more than 1,500. Both of the latter counties had received large numbers of
                    foreigners during this decade. It has been shown in previous articles that the Whitewater Valley was
                    essentially a young man's country. At this time a comparison will be made between. the ages
                    of the free white inhabitants in 1820 and the ages of those living in the valley in 1860. The
                    results will be a clear indication that the percentage of older persons was gradually rising. In
                    1820, forty-one per cent were under ten years of age, but in 1860, this figure was only twenty-nine
                    per cent; in 1820, fifty-six per cent were sixteen and under, and in 1860, forty-one per cent were
                    fifteen or under; in 1820, seventy-three per cent were twenty-six or under, in 1860, sixty-one per
                    cent were thirty or under; in 1820, ninety-two per cent were under forty-five, in 1860, ninety per
                    cent were fifty or under; in 1820, eight per cent were forty-five or over, and in 1860, ten per cent
                    were fifty or over. The heyday of the young, hardy pioneer was over. In fact, he was himself now in
                    his old age living in a society of older men.28
            
            Sixty years had brought momentous changes to the Whitewater Valley. The territory was at first a
                    relatively unexplored region inhabited by red men. At the close of this period, however, more than
                    sixty-six thousand people lived in the valley. The first settlers had only crude mills for sawing
                    lumber and grinding grain, but now the industrial revolution was in full swing. Every county had a
                    railroad and towns everywhere dotted the landscape. Numerous religious denominations existed in the
                    valley, several in great strength. The free common school had replaced the voluntary school, which
                    was the first type to exist. Migration from other states was no longer an important factor, but now
                    foreigners, especially Germans and Irish, had come in large numbers and were being assimilated by
                    the native-born population. Above all, a native-born population, composed of the children of older
                    settlers, now constituted more than half of the people of the valley.
            
               
                  27 Reifel, History of 
                                Franklin County
                            , Indiana, 486.
               
                  28
                        Eighth Census o the 
                                United States
                            , 1860, I, Statistics of Population, 106-113; Fourth Census of the 
                                United States
                            , 1820, p.39,.
            
         
         
         
            A Napoleonic Exile in New 
                        Albany
                    
            
            
                    Edward D. Seeber
                    ∗
                
            It was bitterly ironical that exile from 
                        France
                     and a premature death on the Ohio River should have been the fate
                    of Jacques Garniei, for it was he who proposed, in 1792, the law which perpetually banished the
                    Royalist refugees and condemned them to death in the event of their return to Frame.
            With the fall of Napoleon, this prominent Revolutionary sought peace and freedom in the 
                        United States
                    , the haven of so many French expatriates. He reached this new Canaan in October, 1816,
                    and within a few months was established in New 
                        Albany
                    . It is here that we discover him, in the present narrative, keeping a modest store,
                    selling land for the "Vine and Olive Company" to settlers bound for the new
                    development on the Tombigbee River, and completing his latest book of which
                    there remains no trace.
            Jacques Garnier (usually know as Garnier de Saintes) was born in 17551 in the
                    town of Saintes, some forty miles southeast of La Rochelle. At the outbreak of the French
                    Revolution, he became president of his provincial (Saintonge) committee in charge of the
                    procurement, conservation, and distribution of grain, then attorney general of the newly-created départment of Charente-Inférieure. Elected to the National
                    Convention, Garnier allied himself with the most violent faction, the Montagnards;
                    at the trial of Louis XVI, in 1792, he voted for the monarch's death without appeal or
                    delay, with the remark: "The people, when betrayed, do not judge their kings; they hurl a
                    Lightning bolt and exterminate them."
            In 1793, he summoned before the Revolutionary Tribunal General Blanchelande, governor of Santo
                    Domingo, charged with opposing the enforcement of the decree which freed the island's
                    slaves, and with the illegal execution of the mulatto 
                  
                     ∗ Dr. Edward D. Seeber is professor of French and Italian
                            at Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 According to La Grande Encyclopédie (31
                            vols., 
                                Paris
                            , n.d.), XVIII, 542-543. Pierre Larousse, Grand Dictionnaire
                                universal (17 vols., 
                                Paris
                            , n.d.), VIII, 1043, gives 1754 while the older Nouvelle Biographie
                                générale, edited by J. C. F. Hoefer (44 vols., 
                                Paris
                            , 1855-1866), XIX (1857), 518-519, gives 1752. Garnier is called Jacques in La Grade Encyclopédie and in the catalogue of the Bibliothéque Nationale (
                                Paris
                             1897-), LVII (1914), 507, and Jean in the other two works cited and in the British Museum Catalogue of Printed Books (79 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1881-1889), XXVIII (1888), 175.
               
                     leader Vincent Ogé. The same year, he helped
                    organize the Committee of Public Safety, and in 1794 was elected president of the Jacobins. Further
                    honor came to him in 1798, when he was named by the Directory as vice-consul to the 
                        United States
                     (an appointment which he refused), and again in 1800, when Napoleon made him president
                    of the criminal court of Saintes and a chevalier of the Legion of Honor.
            With the second Restoration, Garnier de Sanites fell under the exile laws of July, 1815, was arrested
                    in 
                        Paris
                    , and banished to 
                        Belgium
                    . There for five months he attacked the Bourbons in his periodical Le
                        Surveillant until his expulsion early in 1816, which occasioned his Farewell
                        to the Inhabitants of Bruxelles, with the epigraph "Today is inflicted upon me
                    exile from exile." Meanwhile, he had published The Return of Truth to 
                            France
                        
                and An Exile's Debt; or, A New Plan of National
                        Education, Based on the Principles of Socrates, and Selected from the Work of Crito, one of his
                        Disciples.
               2 Garnier came directly to America; but his sojourn in the
                        Ohio Valley was cut short in 1820 by a boating accident, which took his
                    life and, supposedly, that of his son.
            In the summer of 1817, a French Traveler, Edouard de Montulé, arrived in 
                        Louisville
                     after a trip by steamboat from 
                        New Orleans
                    . There he met a French family to whom he was presented by a compatriot named Meslier,
                    "one of the commissioner-explorers of the French society of the
                    Tumbicbée." Through this family, Montulé met Garnier de Saintes under
                    the circumstances related in the following passage, dated July 2, 1817: 
                        Monsieur L. C—, junior, suggested to me one day that we go and see M. Garnier (of
                            Saintes), who was living three or four miles from there, and across the 
                                Ohio
                            , in the town of New-
                                Albany
                            . After crossing the 
                                Ohio
                             in a ferry boat, which took at least half an hour, we arrived in New-
                                Albany
                            . The location is delightful; but it would be much more so if the great floods
                            of the river had not prevented the building of houses on the bank. The fact is, they are on
                            higher ground, and rather distant. The space separating them from the river is always filled
                            with débris brought by the water. A log house, in fairly poor repair, was the
                            dwelling place of the former representative of the people. We knocked at the door of a sort
                            of shop, for he sells whiskey, 
                        
                           2 The original titles of these works are: Adieux
                                        à messieurs les habitants de Bruxelles (Bruxelles, 1816); Le Retour de la vérité en 
                                            France
                                        
                            (
                                        Paris
                                    , 1815); La Dette d'un exilé, ou Plan
                                        nouveau d'éducation nationale, basé sur les
                                        principes de Socrate… et extraits de l'ouvrage de Criton,
                                        l'un de ses disciples… (Bruxelles, 1816).
                     
                             rum, and cigars for a living. A small boy opened the
                            door and led us into the kitchen; it is the bedroom, the living-room—in short,
                            the only room of M. Garnier, who came forward to greet us with a spoon in one hand and a
                            notebook in the other.
                        He does his own cooking, and is writing a book. I being a French soldier, he received me most
                            graciously. Without inviting us to stay for dinner, he killed two chickens, dressed them,
                            put them on to fricassee, doubled the amount of his beans, already cooking, prepared a
                            salad, and then asked us if we should like to join him. When the meal was over, I asked M.
                            Garnier if I might read a few pages of his work. The title is Emérides, ou Soirées de Socrate [Socratic Evenings]. In it
                            he supposes that the genius of that philosopher reveals the future to him, providing an
                            infinity of examples in the lessons he unfolds to his disciples, who often raise objections
                            which are as specious as the answers are worthy of his wisdom. The work is entirely
                            philosophical. It can be seen that its very plan has permitted the author to treat of events
                            which have taken place in Europe before our eyes. It appeared to me that this book is well
                            thought out and admirably written; perhaps it can be criticized for some prolixity, but one
                            will note with pleasure that M. Garnier, although elderly, is not too fixed in his ideas: he
                            treates Henry the Fourth as fairly as he does Bonaparte.
                        The little fellow who opened the shop for us is M. Garnier's factotum; he is only
                            fourteen, and very small for his age, but full of good sense. His mother, Madame Audibert,
                            lives opposite M. Garnier. She is a native of Vendée, but in her thinking she is
                            prodigiously opposed to that of her compatriots. I know not what she did, or what was done
                            to her to poison so deeply a heart which seems otherwise full of feeling and tenderness. Her
                            children are well brought up; one of them is a tall, pretty girl recently arrived from 
                                Philadelphia
                            . She is not yet used to the life of farming, which, however, her mother seems
                            to understand well enough. This family, and M. Garnier, are future inhabitants of the colony
                            which I must tell you about.
                        [There follows a brief description of the allotments on the Tombigbee
                            River granted by Congress to French refugees.]
                        M. Meslier had strongly urged me to buy a share [in this land]. He had gone away, leaving his
                            authority as manager in the hands of M. Garnier, with wham I signed for a quarter of a
                            share, or 125 acres of land, and, in the city which they are going to build, a lot 25 feet
                            wide and 200 feet deep. For that I gave him the sum of 75 francs that each shareholder
                            advances to take care of the growing society's initial expenses. I am delighted
                            with the idea of being a landowner in this country of America, a true haven for the
                                unfortunate.3
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  3 Translated from Letter XVII of Edouard de Montulé's
                            Voyage en Amérique, en Italie en Sicile et en Egypte, pendant les
                            années 1816, 1817, 1818 et 1819 (2 vols., 
                            Paris
                        , 1821).
            
         
         
         
            The Naming of 
                        Troy
                    , Indiana
            
                    Albert Kleber, O.S.B.
                    ∗
                
            Writers of local Indiana history have not been able to account for the naming of 
                        Troy
                    , the original county seat of 
                        Perry County
                    , Indiana. Lacking certain knowledge based on fact, they have advanced fanciful
                    conjectures. Thomas J. de la Hunt, having made such a conjecture, says "it is unknown to
                    whom the name owes it being… and its sponsorship has never been claimed."1 The author of St. Pius Parish, 
                            Troy
                        , Indiana,2
                likewise could not trace the naming of 
                        Troy
                    . Yet, strange to say, it was the publication of this little centenary histroy that
                    brought to light the information sought for so long. Two grateful clients of Judge Alexander Troy,
                            
                  Salisbury, North Carolina
               , in appreciation of professional service he had
                    rendered them and as a token of their esteem for him, proposed that the county seat of 
                        Perry County
                    , whither they had immigrated from 
                        North Carolina
                    , be named after him—a proposal that was accepted by the other settlers.
            This fact came to light in the following manner: Years ago a young lady, Agatha Lindemann, of 
                        Troy
                    , became a member of the Community of the Sisters of Charity of Nazareth, Nazareth, 
                        Kentucky
                    , where she is known as Sister Alberta. An elderly member of the same Community, Sister
                    Denise 
                        Troy
                    , manifested special joy over the arrival of the novice from 
                        Troy
                     because, so she told her, that town was named after her grandfather, Judge Alexander
                    Troy. Recently, on receiving a copy of the centenary history of her home parish and reading therein
                    about the lack of information concerning the naming of her home town, Sister Alberta wrote to the
                    author what Sister Denise had told her about it years ago. The author, in turn, obtained the details
                    from the aged Sister, now a nonagenarian.
            Judge Alexander Troy, 
                  Salisbury, North Carolina
               , had two sons, Matt 
                        Troy
                    , a doctor and the father of Sister Denise, and Daniel Shipman 
                        Troy
                    , a lawyer. The entire family was 
                  
                     ∗ Father Albert Kleber, O.S.B., is a member of St.
                            Meinrad's Abbey, St. Meinrad, Indiana.
                  
                     1 Thomas J. de la Hunt, 
                        
                                    Perry County
                                , A History (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1916), 9.
                  
                     2 Albert Kleber, St. Pius Parish, 
                                    Troy
                                , Indiana, Centenary History, 18/7-1967 (
                                Troy
                            , Indiana, 1947).
               
                     Protestant, and the men were also Masons. Moreover, a journal
                    kept by Daniel Shipman 
                        Troy
                     states that he was in sincere accord with "the Know-Nothing movement against
                    foreigners and particularly against Catholics."3
            
            The two brothers moved to 
                        Alabama
                    , where Sister Denise was born in 1858. Upon the death of her father, in 1865, her
                    uncle, Daniel Shipman 
                        Troy
                    , took a fatherly interest in his little orphaned niece. He would often speak to her
                    about their family history, especially about her distinguished grandfather, in whose honor, he told
                    her, two towns were named. One was in 
                        Perry County
                    , Indiana, the other in 
                  Dallas County, Alabama
               . The name for the 
                        Troy
                     in Indiana had been proposed by two of her grandfather's appreciative clients
                    who had emigrated to what was then "the far West."
            The author knows of at least one early settler of 
                        Perry County
                    , Thomas Bolin, who hailed from 
                        North Carolina
                    , but there is no record available to show that he was one of Judge Troy's two
                    cilents who proposed to name the new town 
                        Troy
                    .
            Finally, a critically inclined historian might wonder how the little girl with her not only
                    thoroughly Protestant but even anti-Catholic background came to join a Catholic Sisterhood. Colonel
                    Daniel Shipman 
                        Troy
                    , who had risen to the militray rank of lieutenant colonel by reason of his
                    distinguished service in the Confederate Army during the Civil War, was shot through the breast just
                    above the heart as he was leading his men in an attack upon a Federal position in 1865.4 When the victorious Federals were about to bury him, one of them detected a
                    faint sign of life in the body. They carried the grievously wounded man to the field hospital where,
                    contrary to all expectation, he began to recover. Still in a critical condition, he was transferred
                    from the field hospital to the Lincon Hospital in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., where Sisters of Charity served as nurses. It was the first time the Colonel had
                    seen Catholic Sisters, and his preconceived notions of them and of the Catholic church made him a
                    keen observer. He 
                  
                     3 "Out of the Whirlwind," The Messenger
                                of the Sacred Heart (
                                New York
                            , 1897-), LXXXII (1947), 36-42, 44-50, for quotation see page 48.
                  
                     4
                            The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union
                                find Conferedrate Armies (70 vols., 
                                Washington
                            . 1880-1901), Series 1, XXXI, part 1 (1890), 452, '535, part 2 (1890),
                            659, part 3 (1890), 617, XLII, part 3 (1893), 1242, 1368, XLVI, part 1 (1894), 233, part 2
                            (1895), 1273, part 3, (1894), 220, LII, part 2 (1898), 563, Series 2, IV (1899), 231.
               
                     noticed also that representatives of the fraternal secret
                    society that he himself had joined occasionally visited the patients, but that they came to befriend
                    only those whom they found to be members of their society. The Sisters, however, showed preference
                    only for cases of greater suffering, and that with constant kindliness. In his journal he states
                    that "it was not long that it began to dawn on me that the Sisters of Charity were putting
                    into actual practice the teaching of the Savior, which I had long regarded as guides for human
                    action, but far beyond human reach."5 He further notes that when he
                    returned to the South at the conclusion of the war, after prolonged prayerful thought and study, he
                    and his wife entered the Catholic church on April 20, 1868.6 Other members of
                    the Troy family followed their example. Thus did Catholicity come into the Troy family and thus did
                    the little girl come to be the Sister of Charity who as a nonagenarian was to bring to light the
                    story of the naming of 
                        Troy
                    , Indiana.
            
               
                  5 "Out of the Whirlwind," The Messenger of
                            the Sacred Heart, LXXXII. 48.
               
                  6
                        Ibid., 50.
            
         
         
         
            Documents: The Shelly Papers
            
                    Translated by Sophie S. Gemant and edited by Fanny J. Anderson
                    ∗
                
            The following letters were written by Joseph Frederick Shelly to his wife, Pauline, from the time of
                    his enlistment as a recruit in Company B, 41st Regiment, 2nd Cavalry of Indiana, on October 22,
                    1862, until his death on November 29, 1863.1 Mrs. Shelly remarried nine years
                    after his death, but the letters were carefully preserved throughout her lifetime and remained in
                    the possession of her daughter, Mina Shoemaker of 
                        Chicago
                     until 1946, when they were presented to the Burton Historical Collection of the 
                        Detroit
                     Public Library.
            The original letters are in German script. Phrases in dialect interspersed with English often made
                    translating them difficult. Little is known about the writer. According to family tradition, he was
                    privileged to use the prefix "von" before his surname. At an early age he was
                    forced to leave his homeland because of political activities. He was an outstanding athlete, but his
                    ability to earn a livelihood was hampered by his lack of training in any specialized field. Army
                    records state he was born in Baden, 
                        Germany
                    , and was thirty-two years of age at the time of his enlistment. His occupation is given
                    as "farmer."2 The date of his marriage to Pauline Werdin, or
                    Werdein, is not certain. In 1862, his two children, Fred and Emma, to whom he refers, were about two
                    and four, respectively. Pauline was born in Berlin in 1840 and had come to 
                        Michigan City
                    , Indiana, with her parents and three sisters when thirteen or fourteen years old. From
                    the first letter, which is omitted, it may be inferred that the family was living in 
                        Waterford
                    , Indiana, when Joseph entered the army. He was employed there as a yeast maker in a
                    brewery. Pauline went to her mother's home in 
                        Michigan City
                     on his departure.
            
               
                  ∗ Mrs. Andrew Gemant and Mrs. David Anderson are both residents
                        of 
                     Detroit, Michigan
                  .
               
                  1 Adjutant General's Official Card Index to Original Muster
                        Rolls, Civil War, in Archives Division, Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana. The letters were signed "Joseph" or
                        "J." The evidence is contradictory whether Frederick is a second or first
                        name.
               2 Ibid.
               
            
            
            Shelly was in the army during the third year of the war. He was sent to 
                        Louisville
                     late in 1862 and early the next year he began to do guard duty to the south of 
                        Louisville
                    . Just when he was attached to the Forty-first Regiment of Indiana Volunteers, which was
                    the Second Indiana Cavalry Regiment, is not clear, but he was with it during the winter and spring
                    months of 1863 around 
                  Nashville, Tennessee
               . In May and June, it was advanced to
                    Murfreesboro and vicinity and on June 11, Shelly participated in an engagement at Triune, 
                        Tennessee
                    , which he described in his letter of June 14, 1863. In the fall, the regiment was
                    assigned to duty along the 
                        Nashville
                     and 
                        Chattanooga
                     railroad. It was during this time that General William S. Rosecrans captured 
                        Chattanooga
                     and suffered defeat at Chickamauga.3
            
            Like the Twenty-second Indiana Regiment,4 the Second Cavalry was apparently not
                    in the battle of Chickamauga. Shelly does not write much about the battles he was in, perhaps
                    because he did not want to worry his wife. Seemingly, his regiment had to fight its way northward to 
                        Chattanooga
                     where it joined Rosecrans' army after Chickamauga. After this defeat the
                    regiment was stationed in central 
                        Tennessee
                    . On the twenty-ninth of November several men of the regiment, including Shelly, were
                    drowned in Caney Fork of Cumberland River while on duty ferrying.5 Shelly, therefore, saw little fighting and his letters are chiefly interesting for the
                    light they cast on conditions among the men in camp and on guard duty away from the more stirring
                    scenes of the battles.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 ,
                           
                                    October 20, 1862.
                                    
                              Camp Sullivan
                           
                                
                        Dearest Pauline:-
                        To calm you a little, I will write you a few lines. We arrived here Friday morning
                                    and have been shut up ever since. Nobody is allowed to go into town. There are about
                                    6000 men in this camp and I heard that there are about 21,000 in all the [camps?] in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    ….
                        The officers have all been chosen. It happened as in all elections 
                              
                                 3 For the report of Edward M. McCook of the
                                            Chickamauga Campaign see The War of the Rebellion: A
                                                Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate
                                            Armies (70 vols., 
                                                Washington
                                            , 1880-1901), Series 1, XXX, part 1, (1890), 894-898.
                              
                                 4 For the letters and diaries of Leroy S. Mayfield, a
                                            member of the Twenty-second Indiana Regiment, contributed by Ura Sanders and
                                            edited by John D. Barnhart, see "A Hoosier Invades the
                                            Confederacy," in the Indiana Magazine of History (
                                                Bloomington
                                            , Indiana, 1905-), XXXIX (1943), 152-166.
                              
                                 5
                                            The War of the Rebellion, Series 1, XXXI, part 1 (1890),
                                            437.
                           
                                     the one who knows best how to flatter is
                                    elected, which I will never do, and for which reason I will never get an office. Of
                                    all the men here, I know only one, Henry Bauser. Abbot knows him. I would very much
                                    like to get in an old regiment, where I have friends, who in case I should get sick
                                    or anything else should happen to me, would help me. In case I should do that I
                                    would send you $38 more than now and $75 when I get final
                                    leave. I haven't told anybody in 
                                        Michigan City
                                     that I am going for another man. I told them I was drafted and I wish
                                    you would not tell differently. I hope this reaches you in good health and
                                    happiness…. Don't write till you hear from me, as I think I
                                    won't be here for long. As soon as I know my new address, I will write to
                                    you, which probably will be in two or three days. It is a good thing when married
                                    people are separated for a little while, because it is the best way to find out how
                                    much they love each other. I think of you day and night….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 ,
                           
                                    November 25, 1862.
                                    
                              Camp Carrington.
                           
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        I would have written long ago only I did not know what. I am still in the same
                                    situation as before I came home. We did not get into the other camp where they would
                                    have kept us a little stricter. Just now the news came that we will get our horses
                                    next Thursday and that we will go to the South next Monday. I haven't had
                                    any money since I am here and don't know when we shall get any. It
                                    doesn't make any difference to me, but if I had got any I would have sent
                                    you $8 or $10, but now you will have to wait as I do. It is
                                    very doubtful whether your letter would reach me as we go away next Monday and it
                                    might take 4 to 8 weeks till we join our regiment, as we have to ride our horses all
                                    the way….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Luesviel [
                                    Louisville
                                 ?]
                           
                                    December 12, 1862.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        We left 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     a few days after I had written to you last week and have been here
                                    since. When we left, it was our intention to go by train to 
                                        Nashville
                                    , but could get no transport for our horses, as the railway carries only
                                    infantry and provisions which is enough to take care of. Therefore, we camped here
                                    after our arrival and plan to go on on our horses in two or three days. Just then
                                    the news came that our whole regiment had been captured which changed our plans.
                                    Major Walkers6 went alone to 
                                        Nashville
                                     and until he comes back nobody knows what we are going to do next or
                                    where we will be sent. Some of the officers think we will have to go back to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     to get more men, as we are only 153 men altogether. The weather is
                                    beautiful and warm, one can go around all day without a coat. I write this letter in
                                    the open air and don't even get cold fingers. My health is very good. I
                                    took my weight last Sunday and I aim 164 pounds and 
                              
                                 6 This was probably Isaiah D. Walker of 
                                                Connersville
                                            , Indiana, who received his commission as a major on June 21,
                                            1862. He resigned on May 29, 1863. Report of the Adjutant
                                                General of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Indiana, 1869), 11, 400.
                           
                                     when I left 
                                        Goshen
                                     I was only 146 pounds. You can see that a lazy life, hard bread and
                                    smoked meat and a quart of coffee have a good effect on me….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Louisvil, Ky.,
                           
                                    December 31, 1862.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:
                        I received your letter of the 18th all right, also the one you sent to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . We had a lot to do these last days. John Morgan7
                                    was in these parts and woke us up a little. We hunted 4 days for him, or rather he
                                    hunted us, as each time we came near enough to see his soldiers they chased us back,
                                    because he had 6000 cavalry and we only 300, but our infantry finally made him
                                    retreat. The last we saw of him was yesterday noon about 36 miles from here when we
                                    made his last soldiers ride away in a hurry. We returned here last night about 10
                                    o'clock. How long we are going to stay here I don't know. I can
                                    tell you it is not such an easy matter to ride back and forth 4 days and nights with
                                    nothing but a few crackers and a little smoked bacon inside you. However, the most
                                    important thing is to stay alive and unhurt. The bullets often flew past my ears,
                                    but it was God's will that none hurt me. Also nothing has happened to Reck
                                    and Tim. I would like to tell you about everything more in detail, but am shaking
                                    all over so that I can hardly write. I think I will get over it when I have rested a
                                    little, or if I could get a good drink of whisky, but I don't know
                                    how….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Park Baracks,
                           
                                    January 3, 1863.
                                    
                              Louisvil, Ky.
                           
                                
                        Dearest Pauline:-
                        New Year's is over and a jolly one it was for me! Hardly had I finished my
                                    letter to you when the bugles sounded to get the horses and stay on guard. I and
                                    three others had to go and stay on guard 6 miles south of Louisvil. It is called the
                                        Salt River Road, where we had to stay till 1
                                    o'clock in the night with nothing particular happening, but three men came
                                    from Elizabethtown who said that General G [?] approached Louisvil with 9000 men and
                                    that he was only 8 miles away from us now. We let them go into town where they
                                    brought the same news to General [Buell]8 who ordered all
                                    soldiers here to arms. When we came into town all the streets were filled with
                                    soldiers, about 25,000 men, we had to stay, too. Immediately, one company of cavalry
                                    was ordered to go and meet the enemy, and we had to wait for their return here. But
                                    when they returned they reported that they could not find the enemy. We stood around
                                    in the streets with out horses till 11 o'clock, after which we went back to
                                    our quarters. I tell you it is quite disagreeable to wait around in the cold a whole
                                    night and especially as we had been on our horses the 4 nights before that. I was so
                                    sleepy that I went to sleep standing up and twice fell down in the 
                              
                                 7 John Morgan, the Confederate raider, was born at
                                            Huntsville, 
                                                Alabama
                                            . He joined the Confederate army in September, 1861, and in
                                            June, 1863, obtained authority to raid 
                                                Kentucky
                                            . For a recent work on Morgan see Cecil F. Holland, Morgan and his Raiders (
                                                New York
                                            , 1943).
                              
                                 8 Don Carlos Buell was appointed a major general of
                                            volunteers on March 21, 1862. He was mustered out on May 23, 1864. Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana,
                                            11, xii.
                           
                                     street. May the Lord never grant me again such
                                    a New Year as this but a happier one in your presence. Also yesterday I was all
                                    night on patrol. It is one blessing that the weather here as a rule is not very
                                    cold. The nights before New Year's were the only ones when it was freezing
                                    hard. We have had no snow since I am here, but a lot of rain which is also very
                                    disagreeable….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Elisabethtown,
                           
                                    January 22, 1863.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        The last letter I wrote to you came from Louisvil, as you could see. Today I am
                                    already 2 weeks in Elisabethtown, Kty…. In case you have written, I will
                                    get your letters, as they are being forwarded to us from Louisvil, but as the River
                                    Road from here to Louisvil isn't finished yet, mail is most irregular and
                                    especially so as the weather was very bad the last days. We had snow here, 18-20
                                    inches deep, which, however, slowly disappears, but still the weather is bad, as it
                                    rains daily. As you can imagine, it is also very disagreeable, as almost daily we
                                    have to stand guard or picket or we have to ride 10 to 20 miles and always arrive
                                    home, if you can call our tent that, pretty wet all through and have to get up in
                                    the morning in those same wet clothes. You won't be surprised, therefore,
                                    that many of us get sick. I myself am not quite all right these last days, but I am
                                    always up and around. Yesterday, I was picketing and came back this morning. We
                                    usually picket outside for twenty-four hours, and this night I kept guard for a
                                    captain of the 84th 
                                        Illinois
                                     Regiment, who had been wounded and died here yesterday. His wife is
                                    here and will take him back tomorrow…. If you don't write
                                    oftener I will look for another woman who might be willing to write oftener than you
                                    do.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Louisvil, Kty.
                           
                                    February 8, 1863
                                    
                              Park Barack.
                           
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        When I arrived here yesterday, I received your letter of the 1st of this month. We
                                    left Elizabethtown and are back here to recruit our regiment and therefore we will
                                    remain here probably 2 or 3 weeks…. Manage well so you won't be
                                    out of money. You never know what may happen, as I don't know when I will
                                    get paid. I have come to believe that Uncle Sam is a bad paymaster. You talk about
                                    sending money to me. That is not necessary, —if I don't have
                                    any, I don't need any. I learned with sorrow that Colber, Shrefs and Jacob
                                    Fogel died…. You tell me about the beautiful warm weather you are having
                                    there. Here it is different; indeed, we have 10 inches of snow and it was very cold
                                    here the last few days. So, it is most disagreeable to sit all day on the
                                    horse's back, and nights, when we stop to sleep in the open, all we can do
                                    is light a fire, spread our blankets on the snow for night quarters. However, one
                                    gets used to everything, but many people perish because they cannot stand such a
                                    life. I am healthy and all I miss is my "bitters" [beer] with my
                                    meals and before I go to sleep…. In case John Butterfield has to return
                                    soon, and he should come to this place, he must visit me and please have him bring
                                    me a pair of high boots. What we get here isn't worth
                                anything….
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Park Barack, Louisvil, Kty.
                           
                                    February 23, 1863.
                                
                        Dearest Pauline:-…
                        We have quite a good life here, enough to eat and no work to do, good clothing and a
                                    warm tent, if we aren't too lazy to saw wood, so I am fairly pleased. All
                                    that it needs to crown our happiness would be enough beer and whisky, which we
                                    can't have. I have no news to tell you except that we discovered last week
                                    a soldier who turned out to be a girl. She had already been in service for 21 months
                                    and was twice wounded. Maybe she would have remained undiscovered for a long time,
                                    if she hadn't fainted. She was given a warm bath which gave the secret
                                    away. Most likely we will stay here for same time, I don't know how
                                    long…. I received a letter this morning from Daniel Reprogel at 
                                        Goshen
                                    . He wants me to send him $10 for feeding my colt during the
                                    winter…. Write soon. How happy I would be to see you and to see the
                                    children running around, but it is my own fault. What do they say about the war at
                                    home? Enough for today.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Louisville
                                 , Kty.
                              Park Barrack,
                           
                                    March 5, 1863.
                                
                        Dearest Pauline:-
                        Your dear letter of the 1st of the month arrived yesterday, but no newspapers, which
                                    is all for the best as the officers wouldn't give them to me for which
                                    reason better not send any, unless the papers are wrapped up so well that nobody can
                                    guess what it is…. I can't keep from telling you to take good
                                    care of the children which, on the other hand, I know isn't necessary to
                                    tell you as you do the best you can…. I am so glad that there is one [man
                                    at 
                                        Michigan City
                                     who is not afraid of an Army government [Soldatenregierung] and who
                                    dares to oppose such a black hearted, bloodthirsty brute like Capp. I wish to God
                                    there were more men like O. P. Dunn…. I read in the newspapers that there
                                    is going to be a new draft and that people will oppose it, but it won't
                                    help anything, as there are always plenty of men who drive than to it. If it should
                                    happen to anybody in our family I would suggest rather to go without struggle and of
                                    their own free will. We hope to get paid in a few days….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Louisville
                                 , Kt., Park Barack,
                           
                                    March 19, 1863.
                                
                        Much loved one:- Your dear letter of the 15th of this month I received this morning
                                    and I sat down right away to answer it. I also wrote at once to Paul, telling him to
                                    send you the money for the horse. It is always a happy day to receive a letter from
                                    you, but I was especially [glad] to hear from you today on my name day9 that you are well…. With God's will we might
                                    celebrate your next birthday and my name day together at home in peace and quietness
                                    and may God grant us many more. There is nothing new to tell you. In a camp one day
                                    is just like the other, that is, eating, etc. I am out of money for quite a while
                                    now and the worst is that I have no tobacco. If we don't get paid pretty
                                    soon, what we all hope fervently, I will have to ask you for money, as it is almost
                                    impossible for me to be without tobacco….
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  9 The day of the saint whose name one bears.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Glasgow
                                 , Kty.
                              Camp Kessler,
                           
                                    April 7, 1863.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        Our situation changed quite a bit since I wrote you last which was on March 19th.
                                    Hardly had I mailed your letter when we got orders to leave 
                                        Louisville
                                     which we did the same night. We took some rebel prisoners. One of them
                                    was a colonel. After three days' riding during which time we were on our
                                    horses day and night or standing with the horses, we returned to 
                                        Louisville
                                    , but stayed only for 4 days after which we had to leave again for 2
                                    days, but nothing happened then. The enemy had already left these parts. When we
                                    returned to our camp there was already an order waiting for us to go to 
                                        Lebanon
                                    , Kty. So we left the next morning and arrived there after three days.
                                    But there, also, was no enemy, so we got an order to get in front of General
                                    Rosecrans' army.10 We are now on the march to get
                                    there. We stay here just for a day to rest a little, tomorrow we will be on our way
                                    to 
                                        Nashville
                                    , Tenn. Last Saturday, Easter Sunday, and Monday, I was escort to
                                    General [Ho?] of 
                                        Kentucky
                                    . I had quite a nice time. In a little town, 
                                        Granville
                                    , I filled 3 water pitchers full of whisky so a few of us had a nice
                                    Easter. The whisky I took from a saloon-keeper in a bar who had a barrelful, without
                                    anybody noticing it. Reck has been sick for quite a while now. I am fairly well, not
                                    even a cold…. I have to bury all hope of seeing you soon….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nashville
                                 , Tenn.
                           
                                    April 16, 1863.
                                
                        Much-loved Pauline:-
                        I haven't heard from you for almost a month now, your last letter was dated
                                    19 March…, As I told you in my last letter from 
                                        Glasgow
                                    , we left there the next !morning, arriving at 
                                        Nashville
                                     on Saturday and camped quite near the town. On Sunday, however, we went
                                    4 miles south of the town into our camp. Since we have been here, I have been on
                                    duty scouting, picketing, and taking prisoners. The whole country around here is
                                    full of rebel scouts. I don't know how much longer we will stay here but I
                                    think it won't be long. I think it most likely that we will meet
                                    Rosecram' army very shortly. It is really sad to see this beautiful country
                                    here so ruined. There are no fences left at all. There is no corn and hay for the
                                    cattle and horses, but there are no horses left anyhow and the planters have no food
                                    for themselves. They cannot work and plant their acres. Only yesterday I talked to a
                                    farmer at whose house I was picketing. He told me he had no potatoes to plant and
                                    all winter long he lived on corn and a very little smoked meat. To buy foodstuff
                                    here from a farmer is almost impossible, as everything they had planted and also
                                    their cattle was stolen. They have therefore nothing to sell and everything is very
                                    expensive. I can't see how the people live at all. Everybody I meet
                                    wherever I go wished fervently for the end of this war. It is pretty warm 
                              
                                 10 Rosecrans of 
                                                Ohio
                                             received the brevet rank of major general on March 13, 1865. He
                                            resigned his commission on March 28, 1867. He distinguished himself in the
                                            battle at Murfreesboro. 
                                                Tennessee
                                            . Oliver S. Sadding, Jr., "William Starke
                                            Rosecrans," in Dictionary of American Biography
                                            (20 vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1943), XVI, 163-164.
                           
                                     here already and the trees begin to get green.
                                    I think most likely we will soon get money in which case I will send you some right
                                    away. I am fairly well with the exception of my cold which bothers my lungs and
                                    makes me cough a great deal. But I hope this beautiful weather we are having will
                                    soon drive the cold away….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nashville
                                 , Tenn.
                           
                                    April 22, 1863.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        With the greatest of joy I received your letter of the 14th of this month, but with
                                    sorrow I read the news of the death of Butterfield. Oh, how much I would have loved
                                    to see the old [man once more. But it was not God's will and the state of
                                    Indiana lost one more god man. That George Hiber died I had heard already from his
                                    brother who is here in our regiment. I see that many people are sick at home and are
                                    dying. Oh, may God protect you and keep you in good health! You ask in your last
                                    letter to which brigade I belong. We don't belong to any yet, but soon
                                    will. Our commander is Colonel McCook.11 He commanded a brigade
                                    last year to which our regiment belonged and I understand he will do that again.
                                    Whether we are going to belong to that brigade I don't know, but most
                                    likely. He will probably want to keep his regiment near him. Our other commanders
                                    are Lt. Col. Rupert Stuart,12 but he isn't with us yet.
                                    He was taken prisoner last December, but is free again. He is highly thought of
                                    here. Our majors are Wager13 and Stuart, brother of Bob.14 We lost our first major, Hill,15 in 
                                        Lebanon
                                    , where he died, on our way here. We spend our time scouting. Yesterday,
                                    we went to Stone River, where same rebels fired at us, but
                                    nobody was hit. We formed a line of battle, but they ran away and we
                                    weren't allowed to cross the river for fear they might lay a trap for us.
                                    But, enough of this. On the 20th, I sent a bag of clothes to you by
                                    express…. In the overcoat you will find my ring in a little
                                    box….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Nashvile, Tenn.
                           
                                    April 26, 1863.
                                    
                              Camp Mill Spring.
                           
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        Your dear letter of the 23rd of this month I received this morning when I returned to
                                    camp. These last two days, I have 
                              
                                 11 Probably Edward M. McCook, of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Indiana, who received his commission as a major on September
                                            29, 1861; lieutenant colonel, February 11, 1862; colonel, April 30, 1862;
                                            and brevet major general, March 13, 1865. Report of the
                                                Adjutant General of the State of Indiana, 11, 400-401, xii.
                              
                                 12 This may have been Robert R. Stewart, of 
                                                Terre Haute
                                            , Indiana, who was commissioned a lieutenant colonel on April
                                            30, 1862, of the Forty-first Regiment of Indiana. Ibid.,
                                            400-401.
                              
                                 13 No one by the name of Wager is listed as a major
                                            for the Forty-first Regiment of Indiana, in ibid., 401.
                                            Isaiah D. Walker is listed as a major, see footnote 6.
                              
                                 14 He probably referred to James W. Stewart, of 
                                                Terre Haute
                                            , Indiana, who recevied his commission as major on November 15,
                                            1862, and as a colonel on March 1, 1864. Ibid., 400-401.
                              
                                 15
                                            Samuel Hill, of 
                                                Brazil
                                            , Indiana, received his commission as a major on April 30, 1862.
                                            He died on April 6, 1863. Ibid., 401.
                           
                                     been on outer picket duty and am now a little
                                    sleepy, because one can sleep very little as the rebels who are around here
                                    everywhere show up from time to time. One of our guards shot a rebel last night at 2
                                    o'clock as he tried to approach the guard. As I can see from your letter,
                                    you had not got my last letter, but I hope you received it in the meantime. I have
                                    not much to tell you as nothing new has happened. We were paid yesterday, that is,
                                    we got some money. I and Reck and Tim got paid for 3 months and 8 days, and received
                                    $42.90 of which I sent you $33. I gave it to the paymaster as
                                    all the others do. He sends it to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     where a man who is employed by the state gets it and sends it express
                                    to you. He takes one cent from one dollar. To send it from here by express is too
                                    dangerous, as the express from here to 
                                        Louisville
                                     does not give any guarantee and one has to take all the responsibility.
                                    The clothing I sent was at my own risk, but I thought I would do it anyhow as the
                                    weather is much too warm to take them along and the horses have enough to carry.
                                    Most likely you will receive the money this week. I sent it to your address, and, as
                                    they do not know you at the express office, you had better ask. When you pay for the
                                    land, be sure to get a good deed and stamp. I saw from your letter that you are
                                    wearing pieces of copper to show that you belong to the Copperheads Party. I think
                                    you had better leave copper and copperheads alone….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Murfreesboro,
                           
                                    May 6, 1863.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        I received your dear letter with the news that you recevied the money last Sunday,
                                    but I did not write at once, as I had just sent a letter to you a few days ago. I am
                                    glad that you are all in good health. I also am quite well. It has become extremely
                                    uncertain, however, how long one is going to enjoy good health here. We had a battle
                                    last Thursday in which two men of our regiment were wounded. The arm of the one had
                                    to be amputated, the other was shot through the foot. We expect a major battle every
                                    minute. Our outer pickets are being driven back every night. When we go out during
                                    the day, Mr. Rebel shows us his back, but only until they get into the woods, where
                                    we can't follow them farther, as Rosecrans is not yet ready for a battle
                                    though they expect it daily in those cedarwoods from which we can chase them only
                                    with shells. Our artillery which we had last Thursday let them have a few rounds, so
                                    they ran away. As soon as we turned our backs to go back to camp, which was about 15
                                    miles away, they returned. During the night, they came as near as 3 miles. I got a
                                    letter from Paul where he tells me that he exchanged the colt for a couple of oxen.
                                    Tell me what Eberts does about the land, and whether Fred [Herrman, his
                                    brother-in-law] knows when the draft will be in Indiana and what the people say they
                                    will do when they get drafted…. The weather is very warm….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Millspring,
                              
                                 
                                    Nashville
                                 , Tenn.
                           
                                    May 12, 1863.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        You owe me an answer to two letters I wrote to you, one about my overcoat. I sent to
                                    you by express and another letter where I sent you $33 through Mr.
                                    Goutwein. I am very anxious whether  you
                                    received it. Let me know, please, as soon as you get it. I feel fine here. I am as
                                    healthy as a man could wish to be, although we are very busy which makes quite a few
                                    in our regiment sick. There really is hardly a day when we haven't to go on
                                    a little excursion of 40 to 50 miles. Weller and his cavalry is at our front which
                                    keeps us rather busy to keep him off. Very often we take prisoners. We had a little
                                    battle last Sunday morning about 30 miles from here, near 
                                        Lebanon
                                    , Tenn., where we chased them back and took 7 prisoners. Several fell,
                                    but I don't know how many. On Saturday we left camp at midnight and met the
                                    enemy in the early morning and returned at five in the evening. Yesterday we did not
                                    have to go out at all. Today we left at 4 in the morning and returned at 1
                                    o'clock in the afternoon. It is like that every day. This part of the
                                    country, the most beautiful one I ever saw, is entirely ruined. No fences to be seen
                                    anywhere, the fields are being used for roads. Last Tuesday we had a battle quite
                                    near to General Andrew Jackson's farm. I saw where he is buried, his
                                    gravestone very plain. I also saw his and George 
                                        Washington
                                    's easy chair. The cedar and evergreen in this letter I picked
                                    from his grave. Give it to F. Hermann as a remembrance of a good
                                    Democrat…. Wellman, who once lived in 
                                        Michigan City
                                     and who came to visit you often, is now in our
                                regiment….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Millspring,
                              
                                 
                                    Nashville
                                 , Tenn.
                           
                                    May 18, 1863.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        I got your dear letter of the 10th of this month on Saturday, when I was on picket at
                                        Stone River, 9 miles from here. I have been worried lately,
                                    as I did not get an answer for so long. Most likely you also received the money in
                                    the meantime. I wrote several times about picketing, which cavalry has to do to a
                                    great extent, and, as they have only the outer posts, one does not feel quite as
                                    safe as behind a plough. So I will explain to you as well as I can all about
                                    pickets. We leave camp in the morning at 6 and ride to a special place. A whole
                                    company always goes together. As we are guarding a river our posts are situated at
                                    such places where paths run through. There are no more bridges as they were burned.
                                    Arrived at our destination, the company is divided in as many groups as there are
                                    posts. Here we have three which are all 2 miles apart. At such a post one man stands
                                    guard one hour during the day when he is relieved by another man. During the night,
                                    however, he stands guard 3 to 4 hours. Last time I stood for a while behind an oak
                                    tree where I could watch what was going on on the other side of the river. During
                                    the day, everything was quiet and peaceful, and, as the weather here is very
                                    agreeable and warm, it was a pleasure. During the night, however, Mr. Rebel tried
                                    his hand. I stood guard from 8 to 11 o'clock. About 9, I heard somebody
                                    riding on the other side of the river. I went back and reported to the lieutenant
                                    who is our commander. Hardly was I back at my post, when one of those Mr.
                                    Southerners showed himself at the river, but a bullet from my carbine made him
                                    retreat quickly enough. Now, however, they knew where I stood and entertained me by
                                    flinging pieces of oak bark at my head which was their target. But after a little
                                    while, they went away and  left us in peace for
                                    the rest of the night. Next day at 9 o'clock we were relieved by another
                                    company. Such little skirmishes at our outposts happen very often, but only during
                                    the night, when they try to cross the river. Next Friday, our company will again be
                                    on picket. Our Colonel McCook left us this morning. He now commands a brigade.
                                    Whether we belong to it I don't yet know. Lt. Colonel Stuart is now our
                                    commander. One of our doctors told me yesterday that we have to leave here soon and
                                    very likely will be sent to the front to meet Rosecrans' army, but I hope
                                    that is not so. Stefan Reck is ill, he hasn't been well for some time, and
                                    I believe he will not be able to remain in the service much longer. Thank God, I am
                                    healthy and hope all of you are, too…. Did they put out flags in 
                                        Michigan City
                                     and ring the bells, etc. because Hoocker16 got
                                    beaten? Do they believe that those boys really got beaten?
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Murfreesboro,
                           
                                    May 29, 1863.
                                
                        Beloved Panline:-
                        After some gadding about we came to the headquarters of our big army. Our camp is
                                    about two miles south of the town and near the 4th Indiana Cavalry. I saw a lot of
                                    those I knew at 
                                        Michigan City
                                    . The 4th Indiana Cavalry Regiment belongs to our brigade, so we will be
                                    together most of the time. I saw Platt who isn't as round and fat as he was
                                    in the red Mill. The others look as they did at home. We are now quite at the front
                                    of the army and stand picket 6 miles south from here where we can see the rebel
                                    picket very well. We exchange newspapers with them almost daily and they with us. To
                                    men and pickets it is forbidden to shoot at the enemy's picket unless they
                                    come nearer than their post is. The 4th Indiana battery, [?] of 
                                        Michigan City
                                     is in this town. I have not met any of them. There is a great number of
                                    soldiers, I was told about 140,000 men. You can imagine how filled up everything is
                                    with soldiers. Stefan Reck was left sick at 
                                        Nashville
                                    …. I have to stop now, the bugle is blowing to get on our
                                    horses…. There is a rumor that our division will go to 
                                        Alabama
                                    . It is the 1st Division, 2nd Brigade, but always address your letters
                                    to Murfreesboro. Most likely we will have a big battle here soon. All wagons are
                                    loaded with five days' provisions and fodder.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Triun [Triune], Tenn.,
                           
                                    June 14, 1863.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-…
                        Since we left 
                                        Nashville
                                     I have received only one letter from you…. We left
                                    Murfreesboro last Tuesday and arrived here the same evening. We are 16 miles west of
                                    Murfreesboro and 16 miles east of 
                                        Franklin
                                    . In Murfreesboro, I saw Mat. Selzer. He is healthy and strong. The 4th
                                    Indiana Cavalry is now always with us as it belongs to our brigade. Last Thursday we
                                    were on picket. Co. 13 of our regiment and 16 men of the 4th Cavalry were on one
                                    post. When we were about an hour at the place, the rebels attacked us. They came
                                    quite near before we even thought of an attack and certainly would 
                              
                                 16 Joseph Hooker was in command at the battle of
                                            Chancellorsville, May 2, 3, and 4, 1863, when the Union forces were defeated
                                            by Robert. E. Lee's Confederate army.
                           
                                     have taken us prisoners if Capt. Edward17 hadn't been on the outpost and just coming back.
                                    They came as near as a pistol shot to him before he noticed them and his shooting
                                    brought us on guard. They took 5 prisoners of the 4th Indiana Cavalry who were just
                                    then at the outpost. As these parts are very woody they can easily make prisoners of
                                    our guards at the posts, especially as the citizens can tell them where our guards
                                    are stationed, which we can't do. But we 40 men held them off for more than
                                    two hours. There must have been about 300 or 400 of their men. They tried very hard
                                    to make prisoners of us. As they finally saw that was not possible, they started to
                                    shell us. It was a lucky thing for us that many of their shells did not burst at
                                    all. One shell came down 25 feet from me, but didn't do any harm. Finally,
                                    we fell back and our artillery started to tease them, and they retreated with loss
                                    of several dead and wounded. About this time our cavalry went to the right and left
                                    trying to get behind them but did not succeed. They had a hard fight with them and
                                    our regiment lost two men and there were several wounded. One of the dead is Lt.
                                        Plain18 of Co. M from 
                                        Goshen
                                    , a fine, brave young man. His loss is very sad. I have heard very often
                                    that the rebels are bad soldiers and that they have poor rifles, but in the battles
                                    I have fought, I found the opposite. They fight like lions, and many of their rifles
                                    are better than ours. This time, their bullets flew over our heads. I am convinced
                                    ours did not go over to them. When the rebels attacked us in the morning, I had not
                                    time to eat my rations which were in my haversack and could not take the corn for my
                                    horse, having removed it from the saddle, so I had a long fasting day, as we were
                                    not relieved until next forenoon. I bought some cornbread for ten cents from a negro
                                    living in the neighborhood. It tasted quite good although there was neither salt nor
                                    anything else in it. They use only cornmeal and water and bake it. A stomach well
                                    filled up with it will hold out 48 hours. Yesterday noon we left our camp and
                                    visited Mr. Rebel who is about 10 miles away from here. However, when we approached
                                    them, their pickets took to their heels, but we were not allowed to attack their
                                    camp. As a rule when we make an excursion now, the whole brigade goes together as a
                                    regiment is not supposed to show themselves to the pickets alone. Today we are
                                    living in plenty, as we stole a number of sheep and cattle from them. Yesterday we
                                    marched through the most beautiful acres of wheat I have ever seen. They plant a lot
                                    and it was almost ready to harvest, but we ruined it pretty much. Very little corn
                                    is planted here. Enough about war. You probably wondered why I write so little about
                                    my home. That is not because I don't think of it, but because I am afraid
                                    to do so. Oh, you sweet home, how much do I long to see you, how happy 
                              
                                 17 Possibly this referred to John S. Edwards, of
                                            Fortville, Indiana, who was commissioned a captain on December 26, 1861, and
                                            mustered out on October 4, 1864. Ibid., 403. See also the
                                            report of Edward M. McCook in The War of the Rebellion,
                                            Series 1, XXIII, part 1 (1889), 376.
                              
                                 18 Probably William C. Blaine who received his
                                            commission as a second lieutenant on March 31, 1862. He was killed in action
                                            on June 11, 1863, at Triune, 
                                                Tennessee
                                            . Report of the Adjutant General of the State of
                                                Indiana, 11, 411. See also the report of Edward M. McCook in The War of the Rebellion, Series I, XXIII, part 1, p.
                                        377.
                           
                                     would I be to be with you. I am terribly afraid
                                    of the thought that I might never see you again. But I hope dear God will grant me
                                    the joy of seeing you again, that he will protect me from disaster. If only this
                                    unhappy war would end, but it does not look like it….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Triun, Tenn.,
                           
                                    June 17, 1863.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        Just now I got your letter of the 12th of this month and feel much better. I waited
                                    for a letter every day for more than a week, but I see that you do not receive my
                                    letters regularly, therefore our mutual anxiety…. I saw Alden Day, Henry
                                    Dout and many others who are in the 87th Indiana Regiment which is stationed here,
                                    they are all in good health. Stephen Reck is still sick in 
                                        Nashville
                                     but he wrote that he will be back soon with us. Timm is healthy and
                                    only feels unwell when he hasn't enough to eat. He can take an enormous
                                    amount of food….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Tenn., Camp 12 miles out of Winchester,
                           
                                    July 11, 1863.
                                
                        Beloved Pauline:-
                        I answered your last letter but I am very uncertain whether you got it. We had no
                                    opportunity to send letters so I gave mine to Platt, as he went to Murfreesboro. We
                                    have had quite a hard time since we left Triun and are really finding out what it
                                    means to be a soldier. The weather was very bad. For fifteen days we had rain every
                                    day during which time my clothing was never dry. The first three days the weather
                                    was quite good, only warm. Lately, we have had three battles and we were always the
                                    victors. We took 
                                        Shelbyville
                                     where Bragg's19 headquarters were in one
                                    sabre charge. At that time we took a lot of prisoners. The rebels say they lost 1000
                                    men there, our losses were only 15. We are now stationed here. When we have eaten a
                                    place empty, we go a few miles farther and take everything there we can find. You
                                    can't imagine how bad it looks here and how hard it is for people to stand
                                    by and see everything taken from them. They do it without saying a word. It is
                                    impossible for me to go into a house, but what I find for myself and my horse in the
                                    fields I have to take, as we both have to live, especially my horse which I will and
                                    have to keep in good condition. There is nothing new to tell you as we
                                    can't find out what is going on. Our force is cavalry and a little
                                    artillery. We have 20,000 to 25,000 men and horses. You can therefore imagine that
                                    so many men and horses have to eat, and everything has to be stolen….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Fayetteville, Tenn.
                           
                                    July 24, 1863.
                                
                        Much-loved Pauline:-
                        I wrote two letters which you have not answered yet, and as all good things come in
                                    threes, I shall probably hear from you in a few days. We, that is, General Michel [
                                        Mitchell
                                    ]20 of the Cavalry, 
                              
                                 19 Braxton Bragg, of 
                                                North Carolina
                                            , was in command of the Confederate forces opposing Rosecrans.
                              
                                 20 He probably referred to Robert B. Mitchell in
                                            command of the First Cavalry Division. The War of the
                                            Rebellion, Series 1, XXIII, part 1, pp. 532, 542, 543-546.
                           
                                     have been here since Tuesday. We returned here
                                    from Huntsville, 
                                        Alabama
                                    . Why we went north I don't know, as we drove back the enemy
                                    who was stationed on the other side of the Tennessee River and
                                    we could have crossed the river without trouble from him. I suppose we will stay
                                    here for a few days, but nobody knows for how long. We really have a hard time. Also
                                    the weather is quite warm. One perspires without moving much. We heard yesterday
                                    that Morgan had been taken prisoner with all his men and that Burgard
                                        [Beauregard]21 left Charles-town after burning it. We hear
                                    very little of what is going on and with the exception of what we see ourselves, we
                                    do not believe what we hear. As I can't tell you anything new, and as our
                                    daily raids across country do not interest you, I will close this
                                    letter…. How about the land and money! Address all my letters as before
                                    to Murfreesboro.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Fayetteville, Tenn.
                           
                                    August 7, 1863.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        A little while ago, I received your letter of the 21st of this month. The same day we
                                    left this locality and moved from place to place where I couldn't write to
                                    you until we finally reached Winchester at 10 o'clock at night. We got our
                                    pay for four months that same night, of which I sent you $45 as before.
                                    We were provided with clothes and food, leaving again in the morning at 4
                                    o'clock. We have been here several days, and the reason I haven't
                                    written before is that I have not been feeling very well for some time and wanted to
                                    wait until I felt better. But it is very slow. I have no stamps. Please send 3 or 4
                                    in every letter you write to me. In case F. Herman has bad money or Southern, send
                                    it to me in letters, but don't put in too much so it won't make a
                                    big package. I can't use good money here as everything is too expensive.
                                    Bad money buys just as good…. Maybe you read in the 
                              
                                            Indianapolis
                                         Journal that 20 men of our regiment under Major [Presdee]22 crossed the Elk River under heavy fire
                                    of the enemy taking fallen [trees?] out of the fort. I was one of those 20, but the
                                    bullets did not come as thickly as the paper said. However, two hours before that a
                                    whole brigade could not do what we twenty men did. The reason was that Mr. Ohio
                                    couldn't get over there because they could not take the fire of the rebels.
                                    When we marched past them, many said, "You will return with very sad
                                    faces." We answered that we drove the rebels out of 
                                        Shelbyville
                                     and, if they heard us, they would run away, just as it happened. When I
                                    first rode into the river my back got a little cold. So much about that, as the
                                    papers made such a big thing of it.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  21 Pierre G. T. Beauregard was of French ancestry. In February, 1861, he
                        was appointed brigadier general of the Confederate States Army. Thomas S. Spaulding,
                        "Pierre Gustave Tontant Beauregard," in Dictionary of American
                            Biography, 11, 111-112.
               
                  22 Joseph B. Presdee, of 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana, was commissioned as a major on April 7, 1863. Report of the
                            Adjutant General of the State of Indiana, 11, 401. For an account of this event see
                        Edward M. Mc-Cook's report in The War of the Rebellion, Series 1,
                        XXIII, part 1, pp. 545, 548-549.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Largensville [Larkinsville?] near Stevenson, 
                                    Alabama
                                 
                              
                           
                                    August 20, 1863.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        I got your letter of the 3rd of this month a few days ago at [Fayetteville?], just
                                    the evening before w∗e left that place. We went to Huntsville, 
                                        Alabama
                                    , where we had been before. It is really the most beautiful place I ever
                                    saw. The town is not big, but situated in a beautiful part of the country, beautiful
                                    houses and each house a garden. The streets are full of shade trees, also the
                                    gardens. Water is the best one can get. It is the summer resort of the rich
                                    planters, as you can imagine, a den of rebels. We stayed there only one day. We went
                                    after the Mannes and 
                                        Charlestown
                                     regiments, and where they were scattered around, we left men there to
                                    round them up and to watch places and bridges. We are stationed at the foot of
                                    mountains and never before have we been in a more dangerous place. The surroundings
                                    are filled with bushwhackers, and one is quite sure to hear the bullets whistle if
                                    he goes half a mile from camp, just to let you know where they come from. But we
                                    often catch them whereas their procedure is a short one. General Rosecrans is really
                                    here. In a few days we will probably cross the Tennessee River
                                    to chase Mr. Bragg out of Chatanooga. That will mean hot times. However, the rebel
                                    army here can't make a stronghold against ours…. As you saw from
                                    my last letter, I sent you $45. Did you get it? You say you would like to
                                    keep house for yourself. That you can do without me, too. Most likely, there are
                                    enough houses to get in the city. Write soon. I am still not well, but not bad
                                    enough not to do my duty. It is a little hard for me at times, when there is a lot
                                    to do…. Crackers and coffee for breakfast and coffee and crackers for
                                    dinner. Tonight I will have pork! with that, as I slaughtered a pig….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Largensville [Larkinsville?] near Stevenson, 
                                    Alabama
                                 ,
                           
                                    August 21, 1863
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        Just this minute I received your letter of the 16th of this month…. I
                                    found three penny stamps in your letter, I can use them very well…. If
                                    Fred hasn't got such money, he should get some in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     or 
                                        Chicago
                                     and send it to me.23 It comes in very handy when
                                    one wants to buy something to eat like butter, potatoes, etc. You write that I
                                    should send you a picture of mine. We can't have any taken here. These
                                    people do not travel with us.24 I now have what I wanted. I get
                                    my bitters every three hours. Only it is in too small doses and too much
                                bitters.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  23 See letter of August 7, 1863.
               
                  24 A daguerreotype of Joseph was preserved with the letters. It shows a
                        man of dignified bearing dressed in the uniform of the Union. The facial expression is more
                        sensitive than might be expected from the hardy character revealed in the letters, and the
                        serious gray eyes give no hint of the writer's dry humor. The picture must have been
                        taken shortly after his letter was written, possibly as a surprise.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Alabama
                                  between Chatanooga and [Trion?], 
                                    Georgia
                                 .
                           
                                    September 7, 1863.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        Your letter reached me just an hour before we crossed the Tennessee
                                    River near Stevenson and now we are stationed in a camp about 30 miles
                                    southeast of that place. How long we will stay here, I don't know, but
                                    probably not longer than it takes for the whole army to cross the river. You might,
                                    before this letter reaches you, hear of a battle, because the rebels will likely try
                                    to drive us back, but our hope is in God and old Rose. Deserters say Jo
                                        [Johnston?]25 has quite a large army against us. The weather
                                    is very hot during the day and really cold at night. I am well again. Bitters is
                                    good for me….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Decker [Decherd] Station, Tenn.
                           
                                    October 27, 1863.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        Your letter of the 8th of this month I received three days ago, but I had no paper to
                                    answer you sooner. I see you had good luck with your potatoes, but you do not have
                                    to keep any for me, as I doubt very much if we shall see each other before the next
                                    potato harvest comes around. As long as I am here, Mr. Rebel plants potatoes for
                                    me…. We left Bridgeport the first of the month, the day I had written to
                                    you and met the rebel cavalry the next day. They had just burned a train of wagons,
                                    refreshing themselves with the whisky they had found there. Almost all of them were
                                    drunk, about 2000 men. We were only 1100 and 2 cannons. They had six, but we drove
                                    them back very quickly over the mountains, where their headquarters are under
                                    General Weller and 12,000 men and 15 cannons. However, many of them won't
                                    drink whisky any more. We remained one day till the rest of our cavalry joined us,
                                    after which we followed the enemy for twenty days until we drove them finally back
                                    over the Tennessee River. During this time we had food for only
                                    four days. We had to take food for ourselves and the horses from the farmers, pork
                                    and sweet potatoes, which was all right only our salt was gone and the farmers did
                                    not have this either. So we had to eat meat without salt. One can do anything when
                                    one is hungry. Often we did not have anything to eat for two or three days. We
                                    marched all the time, day and night. We had no more rest than four to five hours at
                                    a time. During the night, we had to slaughter pigs and dig potatoes. We lost about
                                    3500 to 4000 horses, which did not hold out, also about half of our men. I was
                                    sometimes so sleepy that I couldn't stay awake and sat for hours on my
                                    horse asleep. But my horse and I came happily through. He is still fat and brave.
                                    What will happen next we don't know. We are resting here, waiting for fresh
                                    horses….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Winchester, Tenn.
                           
                                    November 6, 1863.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        Since we returned from our great march, where we drove Mr. Rebel back over the
                                        Tennessee River, we have been here in camp 
                              
                                 25 After Ulysses S. Grant had relieved 
                                                Chattanooga
                                            , Joseph E. Johnston was placed in command of the Confederate
                                            forces in 
                                                Tennessee
                                             and 
                                                Mississippi
                                            .
                           
                                     and made our quarters fairly agreeable. In our
                                    tent, which I share with three others, I built a fireplace, and now we can sit
                                    around and spit tobacco into the fire. Most likely we will stay here awhile. I would
                                    like you to send me a pair of leather gloves and a pair of pants, as I would have to
                                    pay $4 here for gloves and I have to have some, as it gets pretty cold
                                    here. We are having very cold and rainy weather. You have to send them by mail. I
                                    can't get them through the express. The cost by mail is high but not as
                                    high as if I had to buy them here. If it rains, the water runs from the oilcloth
                                    which we wear over our shoulders down along the pants and into the boots filling
                                    them with water. Be good and send them as soon as possible, and for that I will
                                    store a kiss for you. I won't be unfaithful to you with a negro wench, as
                                    you mentioned in your last letter. Though I live in the negro country, I
                                    haven't changed my opinion of them, only strengthened it. They are not good
                                    for anything, unless driven to work, so you don't need to be afraid that I
                                    will fall in love with them, though it is the case with many soldiers. Yes, men who
                                    have.wives at home get entangled with these black things, who, when you pass them in
                                    summer at the opposite side to the wind, smell so strong that they spoil a white
                                    man's appetite for a week. Things are short here. There is only one
                                    railroad from the north where we get supplies, food, and clothing, and from the
                                    planters, there is. nothing more to be had. They haven't anything anymore
                                    for themselves. Men who had everything in abundance haven't even corn for
                                    bread. It is really sad to see everything in these parts ruined and eaten away. As
                                    you probably saw in the papers, there has been a great change in our army these last
                                    days. Everywhere are new generals, and we also get a new one for Michel. General
                                    Eliot is now our commander…26
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Winchester,
                           
                                    November 15, 1863.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        This minute I received your letter and, as we leave here tomorrow, I hasten to answer
                                    it. I hear we go to Sparta, Tenn. It is near the Cumberland
                                    River and I hope we will have our winter quarters there. I see that you
                                    are sorry that I may not be back at home by next Spring. When I have served my time,
                                    I will come home, don't be afraid that the $400 which they offer
                                    us to stay will tempt me. Lincoln27 does not have enough money
                                    to keep me longer as a soldier than I am forced to stay. I am already looking
                                    forward to the day when I will again be my own master and not under the rule of
                                    drunken officers. If you could only know how I long to be with you, you
                                    wouldn't write such a letter to me. Should I return from the army happy and
                                    healthy, I will stay with the greatest of joy at home with my family, which is a
                                    little nearer to my heart than an abolition government, or fighting for a bunch of
                                    drunken officers, so they should get well paid. I hope you won't write such
                                    a letter again. I can't tell you for sure when our time is up. Some say in
                                    April, some say in May. Yes, I even heard we won't 
                              
                                 26 This was probably Washington L. Elliott, of 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            , who was commanding the Cavalry Corp of the Army of the
                                            Cumberland. The War of the Rebellion, Series 1, XXXI, part
                                            1, pp. 436, 652.
                              
                                 27 He referred to Abraham Lincoln, president of the 
                                                United States
                                            .
                           
                                     be home before August. Timm is trumpter in
                                    Division Headquarters. I see him from time to time. He is well. Stephen Reck is in
                                    the 
                                        Nashville
                                     Hospital where we left him sick last Spring when we left the place. But
                                    he is now well again and cooks for the patients. In the last letter I asked you for
                                    a pair of gloves and 
                                        India
                                     rubber pants. In case you haven't sent them yet, do so as soon
                                    as possible. In any case, send a good pair of gloves. We got paid
                                    last Wednesday. I sent you $40. I am well and fat and hope this will
                                    reach you in the best of health and happy…. Take heart, the long
                                    hoped-for day will finally come with God's help.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Alexandra, Tenn.
                           
                                    November 27, 1863.
                                
                        Dear Pauline:-
                        I got your dear letter, the gloves and the leggings all right and thank you most
                                    heartily for them. I see that everything is more expensive now at home than last
                                    year, but still not as expensive as here, in spite of the mail. Gloves such as you
                                    sent me we can't get here, but I would have preferred less heavy ones. On
                                    the night of the 21st to 22nd of this month, I had a dream which I can't
                                    get out of my mind, though, as you know, I do not believe in dreams. I saw Emma [his
                                    daughter] fall into the water and though I tried everything to save her, I could not
                                    get her out of the water. Please, be so good as to let me know whether anything
                                    happened to her or you. I did not get any letter from Stephen 
                                        Brown
                                    . I am sure he never wrote to me…. I would like to come home
                                    and make him render an account, but it is impossible to get leave. Anyhow, I have to
                                    hold out here, until my time is up. If God keeps me, I will say good-bye to the
                                    army. I told you in my last letter that I sent you $40. Probably you have
                                    not received it yet. I am, thank God, well and strong, yes, I am what I never was
                                    before in all my life, fat. But there is something I
                                    don't like at all, my hair is getting gray. When we arrived here, we and
                                    also the General thought this would be our last winter quarters, but this morning we
                                    got orders to march, that is, orders to be ready packed any minute. Where we shall
                                    go I don't know, but I heard that the rebel General Wheeler28 and his cavalry has returned again and crossed the Tennessee
                                        River. Anyhow, he will lead us around for several hundred miles.
                                    There is also a report that we will go to Burnside in 
                                        Knoxville
                                    , Tenn. and, we heard, in a dangerous position. I hope you, Mother, the
                                    children and the Hermanns are well.
                        
                                    Greetings to all of you,
                                    Yours,
                                    Joseph Shelly.29
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  28 No doubt referred to Joseph Wheeler, of 
                            Georgia
                        , who resigned from the 
                            United States
                         Army on April 22, 1861, to become a first lieutenant in the Confederate States
                        Army. He rose to the rank of lieutenant general and held the leadership of the cavalry in the
                        western theater of operations. Thomas J. Betts, "Joseph Wheeler," in Dictionary of American Biography, XX, 50-52.
               
                  29 Joseph Frederick Shelly was drowned at Caney Fork on November 29, 1863.
                        His body was not recovered.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Portrait for Posterity: Lincoln and His Biographers. By Benjamin P. Thomas.
                            (
                  New Brunswick, New Jersey
               , Rutgers University Press, 1947, pp. xvii, 329.
                    Illustrations, bibliography, and index. $3.00.)
            This is a novel approach to the Lincoln problem—a book about the men and women who wrote
                    about him. Their portraits (the plural is better) for posterity stand out in stronger light when we
                    look through their bifocals and see how and why they wrote. From a variety of sources but chiefly
                    from their own letters Thomas has constructed his book. With humor and understanding he has
                    portrayed the characters and personalities of that strangely assorted group who sought to discover
                    and reveal the true Abraham Lincoln to the American public. Zeal at least was a common trait, and
                    too often it swelled into intolerance and even vindictiveness toward fellow workers in the vineyard,
                    particularly in the generation that knew their subject at first hand.
            The fierce competitive spirit of the business world in these post-Civil War years had its counterpart
                    in the field of Lincoln research and writing. And even the profit motive was not missing from the
                    picture. Poor Herndon, who deserved far more than he ever received, wrote to Weik on one occasion as
                    follows: "The money line is my line & not the glory line. I need the dollars. Glory
                    may go to thunder if I get the dimes & this you ought to know." Henry Clay Whitney
                    hoped for "more than $500 a year" from his book but was badly
                    disappointed. The testy Nicolay complained to Miss Tarbell, when she began her Lincoln researches,
                    that she was invading his field and decreasing the value of his property. The controversies and
                    jealousies of the early biographers, the work of Nicolay and Hay (written under Robert
                    Lincoln's adamant censorship), and the triumph of the romantic, legendary Lincoln over
                    Herndon's earthy hero take up the first six chapters.
            The remaining seven, wherein the realists have their innings, cover the productions of Ida Tarbell,
                    Lord Charnwood, William E. Barton, Albert J. Beveridge, "The Academic
                    Processsion," and Carl Sandburg, with a final chapter called "The Emerging
                    Portrait." The author is rather unsympathetic toward the professional historians and is
                    inclined to  the view that Lincoln eludes their
                    "prosaic documentation." Sandburg, he believes, has come closest to capturing the
                    real Lincoln, though he lets the poet's reviewers speak for him.
            A bibliography is appended composed of manuscript sources and books and articles about both Lincoln
                    and his biographers. Perhaps the chief omissions are the more recent writings of professional
                    scholars on national aspects of Lincoln's career. This is explained apparently in Chapter
                    XI by the number of such productions.
            The character sketches, the descriptions of the physical appearances of the biographers (helped by
                    drawings by Romaine Proctor), and the accounts of their methods of research and writing make
                    entertaining reading. Paul Angle's The Lincoln Reader and this volume
                    together provide an excellent approach to the vexing Lincoln problem.
            Eugene H. Roseboom 
                  
                            Ohio
                         State University
            
         
         
            
               Abraham Lincoln & the Widow Bixby. By F. Lauriston Bul-lard.
                            (
                  New Brunswick, New Jersey
               , Rutgers University Press, 1946, pp. xiii, 154.
                    $3.00.)
            The minuteness and intensity of the interest in Abraham Lincoln is demonstrated by the publication of
                    this small volume about a letter which some have felt was not a genuine Lincoln letter. It also
                    reveals the fascination which some privileged people find in history by studying the evidence on all
                    phases of one of its unsolved problems and by trying to reach a tenable conclusion about it. It is a
                    detective story about a famous American, a story which will repay many different types of readers
                    for their attention.
            The letter which has received so much attention was one which President Lincoln wrote to a widowed
                    mother who was thought to have lost five sons in the federal armies during the Civil War. It was a
                    beautifully worded condolence. The quality of the letter is not lessened by the discoveries that
                    only two of the sons were killed in action, that one was honorably discharged, and that two may have
                    been deserters.
            The author clears away the misstatements about the letter, presents the ascertainable facts about the
                    mother to whom the letter was written, and shows that Nicolay and Hay considered that it was bona
                    fide. He rejects the idea that John Hay wrote it for Lincoln as has been suggested. Furthermore,  he believes that Hay could not have composed the letter for
                    Lincoln but admits that he cannot prove the point conclusively. Fascimiles that have been
                    manufactured and sold he, together with John Hay, regards as forgeries.
            The book is an enjoyable piece of reading, which reveals a little of the depth of Lincoln's
                    character.
         
         
            
               A Bibliography of George Ade, 1866-1944. By Dorothy Ritter Russo. (
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana Historical Society, 1947, pp. xv, 314. Illustrations and index.)
            In the year of George Ade's death the Committee on Bibliography of the Indiana Historical
                    Society sponsored the publication of a bibliography of James Whitcomb Riley. Under the editorship of
                    Anthony J. Russo and Dorothy R. Russo, this volume appeared in handsome format and became
                    immediately not only a useful literary tool but a collector's item. Now, three years later,
                    Mrs. Russo has edited a bibliography of George Ade which in appearance and general value rivals its
                    predecessor.
            To be of maximum utility a bibliography must meet several requirements. It should be clearly
                    arranged, consistently presented, meticulously checked. Chronological order should be maintained
                    within each section, works about as well as works by the author should be accurately listed, and an
                    overall index should be included. It should go without saying that clear typography on good paper
                    stock adds to the merit of the completed volume.
            On almost all these counts Mrs. RUSSO'S volume is a superlative achievement. Physically
                    attractive, it is both detailed and comprehensive. A section of 154 pages is given over to
                    descriptions of George Ade first editions, and a section of 100 pages to the periodicals in which
                    Ade items first appeared. Other sections list reprint editions of Ade's works and enumerate
                    books and periodical articles containing discussions of Ade. Conventional bibliographical practice
                    probably justifies the omission of any biographical data, but one wonders if a short sketch of
                    Ade's life with important dates included would not augment the value of such a book as
                    this.
            To the reader who knows George Ade only as the man who discovered a new kind of fable or as the
                    writer of several comic operas which won considerable popularity almost half  a century ago, the number of Ade's published volumes will come
                    as a surprise. Hardly a year passed between 1894 and 1940 which did not see the appearance of one or
                    more Ade books. The editor has faithfully chronicled all these publications and has abstained from
                    distinguishing the few durable items from the many ephemeral works. The reprinting of Ade's
                    stories has not been followed as carefully, however, as the compilation of other sections of the
                    bibliography. Thus there is no mention of the appearance of "Effie Whittlesy" in
                        The Bedside Book of Famous American Stories compiled by Angus Burrell and
                    Bennett Cerf in 1936, nor of the inclusion by E. B. White and Katharine S. White or three Ade fables
                    in their Subtreasury of American Humor in 1941.
            The index too shows certain aberrations. In general it is full and adequate, but there is a strange
                    tendency to list some persons under their given names and again more fully under their last names.
                    Newton Booth Tarkington, listed under "N," has one item following, but
                    "Tarkington, Booth," has eight entries. John T. McCutcheon, listed under
                    "J," has two entries following, but "McCutcheon, John T." has
                    eighteen, including the first two. James Corbett, Joe Cannon, and John Ringling are all listed under
                    "J" as well as under their last names. "Crane, William H." is
                    followed by two entries, whereas "William H. Crane" gets only one. Such indexing
                    is probably neither harmful nor bothersome, but it does seem eccentric.
            The book suggests another remark in which the editor will probably concur. Ade merits more scholarly
                    attention than he has received. Only one full-length biography has so far appeared, and it is more
                    accolade than evaluation. There have been few serious studies of Ade in the periodicals even if one
                    adds John Abbott Clark's appreciation of the fables in the South Atlantic
                        Quarterly for October, 1947, which probably appeared too late for inclusion here. Ade is
                    not even mentioned in Lewis Leary's checklist of articles on American literature which
                    appeared in the periodicals from 1920 to 1945 (Durham, 
                        North Carolina
                    , 1947). The Russo bibliography then, a monument to George Ade the man, indicates the
                    need for further investigation of Ade the writer.
            John T. Flanagan University of 
                            Illinois
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Colonel Dick Thompson, the Persistent Whig. By Charles Roll. (Volume XXX of the
                    Indiana Historical Collections, 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana Historical Bureau, 1948, pp. xv, 315. Illustrations and index.
                    $2.50.)
            The career of a Secretary of the Navy who hailed from the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                     contained several interesting phases. He was a native of 
                        Virginia
                     who settled in 
                        Terre Haute
                     which had a reputation of being more Southern than other 
                        Indiana cities
                    . He formed his political principles as a follower of Henry Clay, and, once having
                    formed them, he did not desert them. He opposed the agitation of the slavery issue, but was too much
                    of a nationalist to permit the division of the Union. During the war he became a Republican because
                    the efforts of the old line Whigs to form a permanent Constitutional Union party had failed. As
                    commandant of Camp Dick Thompson near 
                        Terre Haute
                     and later as provost marshal of the Seventh Congressional District, he was active in
                    raising, training, and forwarding troops. Always a campaign orator of marked ability, he served his
                    party year after year and occasionally held office in the legislature or in Congress. Desiring an
                    Indiana man in his cabinet, President Hayes named Thompson the secretary of the navy. The secretary
                    supported his chief on the issues of reconciliation with the South, the reform of the civil service,
                    and in his veto of measures attached to appropriation bills, but was not so insistent upon
                    "sound" currency. He gave the navy a conscientious businesslike administration.
                    Before the end of Hayes' presidency, he resigned from the cabinet to become the highly paid
                    secretary of the American committee for the French Panama Canal Company, in other words a
                    propagandist and lobbyist. After resigning in 1889, he lived on as the Grand Old Man of the Party
                    and of 
                        Terre Haute
                    . His life span extended from 1809 to 1900.
            Professor Roll of Indiana State Teachers College, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , has written a very acceptable biography. It seems to be well-documented with published
                    sources, contemporary newspapers, manuscript material left by Thompson, and some other miscellaneous
                    records. This must be ascertained from the preface and the footnotes as a bibliography is not
                    included in the work. The author is restrained and critical in his judgment. He thinks highly of
                    Dick Thompson, but does not picture him as "a statesman of the first rank." He
                    considers his correction with the Panama Canal Company unfortunate. He regards him as a conservative
                    and as a provincial,  but a man of culture, of ability, and of
                    principles. His career helps one to understand the development of Indiana.
            The book is written in a clear readable style, it is handsomely printed, and the editorial work and
                    proofreading have been carefully done. If the opening genealogy seems a little pointless and
                    confused, the remainder of the volume is free of these defects. It is a welcome addition to the
                    historical literature of Indiana.
            John D. Barnhart Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Executive Proceedings of the State of Indiana, 1816-1836. Edited by Dorothy
                    Riker. (Volume XXIX of the Indiana Historical Collections, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana Historical Bureau, 1947, pp. xiv, 911. $5.00.)
            The proceedings of the executive division of the new state of Indiana were recorded for six years in
                    the book used by the secretary of the territory. They were recorded in chronological order. When a
                    new book was opened in 1823, the secretary began a topical arrangement of records. The second book
                    was filled by 1836. The records here reprinted are those contained in these two volumes. The
                    arrangement of the material is also determined by the methods used in making the original entries. A
                    little less than half of the pages of the records are devoted to the appointments and to acts
                    relating to individual counties. An index requires almost two hundred pages with two columns to the
                    page. The book gives ample evidence of the careful work of the editor.
            The minute information given about the operation of the state government will be of value to
                    historians and political scientists. The very large number of persons whose names are included and
                    the statements about the offices they held will be a mine of information for local historians and
                    genealogists.
         
         
            
               The Buffalo Trace. By George R. Wilson and Gayle Thornbrough. (Volume XV, No. 2,
                    Indiana Historical Society Publications, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, 1946, pp. 100. $0.75.)
            The General Assembly of Indiana in 1935 provided for a commission to ascertain and fix the route of
                    the historic Buffalo Trace across southern Indiana from the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     to the territorial capital, 
                        Vincennes
                    . George R. Wilson, a  surveyor and local historian,
                    searched the field notes of the men who made the rectangular surveys before the federal government
                    sold the land. The report of the commission to the governor was used by Miss Thornbrough in
                    preparing this article. The appendix contains the information found in the surveyor's notes
                    and five detailed maps showing the route of the trace.
            The authors, after reprinting a table of distances given in Darby's Emigrant
                        Guide, followed by means of their writings various persons who traveled over the trace to 
                        Vincennes
                    . Among these are the Indian agent George Croghan, the Revolutionary General George
                    Rogers Clark, historian John Filson, General Josiah Harmar, and the Moravian missionary John
                    Heckewelder. Other chapters describe the carriage of the mail over the route, the purchase of Indian
                    lands along the trace, the work of the surveyors, the affect of the slowness of the mails upon the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun, the leading territorial newspaper, and finally the use of the trace
                    in the War of 1812.
            No serious slips or errors mar the pleasure of the reader in following the history of this famous
                    road. The use of the field notes of the suveyors and the writings of travelers effectively recreates
                    the old trace of territorial days as settlers came to take up land in southwestern Indiana. Had the
                    quotations taken from the various travel accounts been longer, the usefulness of the publication
                    might have been increased.
         
         
            
               The Great Northwest, A History. By Oscar Osburn Winther. (
                        New York
                    , Alfred A. Knopf, 1947, pp. xiii, 383, xxv. Maps, illustrations, bibliography, and
                    index. $4.50.)
            
               The Great Northwest, the latest Knopf book on the history of the Far West, is
                    obviously meant to replace another such work—-George W. Fuller's A
                        History of the Pacific Northwest, published in 1931. The later book, however, though no
                    doubt indebted to its predecessor, is far from being a "rewrite" of the Fuller
                    book; it is new in plan and in spirit, and is informed by the latest historical scholarship in the
                    field with which it deals. Nor do the differences end here, for whereas Fuller has used conventional
                    headings and a subdued tone, Winther has adopted pungent titles and a nervous style. Still other
                    characteristics distinguish The Great Northwest from Fuller's book, not
                    the least important of which is  the more extensive treatment
                    Winther's book gives to the recent history of the Pacific Northwest. To the curious,
                    therefore, these two books will afford an interesting study in contrasts, for they reflect the
                    differing moods of two eras.
            To summarize the history of the Pacific Northwest in fewer than three hundred and fifty pages is a
                    task that might well give pause to any scholar, yet Winther has courageously attempted that very
                    thing. Long years of preparation are behind this undertaking, during which time the author, besides
                    establishing himself as an authority on the history of transportation in the Far West, acquired a
                    broad knowledge of the whole field of Far Western history by compiling a useful Guide to the periodical literature of the Trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West. That he should have been chosen to write the present book is, therefore, a matter
                    of no surprise. To say that he has done less than a perfect job amounts to saying no more than that,
                    given the magnitude of the task and the paucity of monographic studies on certain aspects of the
                    subject, no one could now write a compendious history of the Pacific Northwest that would be
                    entirely satisfactory. Despite its shortcomings, The Great Northwest has taken its
                    place as the leading book in its field.
            Winther has exploited to good advantage the scholarly books and articles on Pacific Northwest history
                    that have appeared since 1931. Recent studies of Northwest Indians, of 
                        United States
                     diplomacy involving 
                        Oregon
                    , and of the early religious history of the Pacific Northwest, together with his own
                    studies of transportation and the studies of others in the economics, political, and cultural
                    development of that region, are reflected more or less adequately in the pages of his book. Although
                    he has incorporated much material on recent aspects of the history of the Pacific Northwest, the
                    later chapters of his book are perhaps the least satisfactory ones. They do not give the reader an,
                    altogether clear understanding of how the Pacific Northwest came to be what it is today. Perhaps it
                    is too soon to expect so much.
            After saying so much that is favorable about The Great Northwest, the reviewer
                    regrets that he must call attention to the fact that Winther did himself less than justice in making
                    the final revision of his manuscript. His book is marred by numerous errors of fact and by not a few
                    defects of style. His account of Lewis and Clark's movements west of the Divide is, to say
                    the least, ambiguous (p. 88); his specific mention  of Vernon L.
                    Parrington and Frederick M. Padleford as eminent scholars at the University of 
                        Washington
                     is hardly fair to J. Allen Smith, who is not so mentioned (p. 344); his reference to
                    the Pacific Northwest as "the last frontier" is inadmissable (p. 162); his belief
                    that the Northern Pacific Railroad runs "over Snoqualmie Pass" is ill-founded (p.
                    165); his calling Isaac I. Stevens "Congressman" rather than
                    "Delegate" is inexact (p. 166); his assertion that the Milwaukee Railroad is
                    "all-electric" west of Harlowtown is not true (p. 271); his statements that the
                    Congress "assumed the right" to lay down conditions for the admission of a
                    territory to statehood is not defensible, for the Constitution gives the Congress that right (p.
                    252); and, finally, his reference to Lewis B. Schwellenbach as a former Republican senator from 
                        Washington
                     will no doubt annoy President Truman (p. 324). Equally regrettable are certain defects
                    of style. These defects range from ambiguities, through faulty constructions, to downright wrong
                    uses of words. Typographical errors exist, but are not numerous (pp. 23, 56, 98, 126, 156, 244,
                    317). One suspects that the mordant wit of a compositor is responsible for the appearance in one
                    place of the name Alfred Powers as "Allied Powers" (p. 126).
            This book is attractively printed, beautifully illustrated, and handsomely bound. Its bibliography,
                    though far from being exhaustive, has been assembled, chapter by chapter, with a nice sense of
                    discrimination. One may regret, though, that helpful guides, such, for example, as Charles W.
                    Smith's Pacific Northwest Americana, were not included, and that Oliver
                    W. Nixon's How Marcus Whitman Saved 
                            Oregon
                        
                was included. But these slips are, after all, matters of no great consequence.
                    College students and even more mature readers will find that Winther's references will lead
                    then far along the way to a satisfactory understanding of Pacific Northwest history.
            J. Orin Oliphant Bucknell University
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Paris
                         Peace Conference, 1946 —Selected Documents.
                    Department of State. (
                        Washington
                    , Government Printing Office, 1948, pp. xviii, 1442.)
            The documents comprising this bulky volume were selected  from a
                    set compiled at the 
                        Paris
                     Peace Conference for the use of Secretary of State James F. Byrnes, and cover the
                    discussions on the peace treaties with 
                        Italy
                    , Rumania, 
                  Bulgaria, Hungary
               , and 
                        Finland
                    . The nature of the documents is indicated by those dealing with the Italian treaty. In
                    this case the reader is given the original draft treaty which was presented to the conference by the
                    Council of Foreign Ministers; 140 pages of written observations on that treaty by the Italian
                    government; 93 pages of written observations by the governments of Albania, Mexico,
                            
                  Cuba, Egypt, Austria
               , and 
                        Iran
                    , which—though not members of the conference—were invited to
                    present their views; 19 pages of summaries of the oral discussions in the plenary sessions of the
                    conference, in the course of which the views of twenty of the twenty-one participating governments
                    are set forth; 193 pages of reports of various commissions; and 40 pages of recommendations of the
                    conference to the Council of Foreign Ministers on what the final treaty with 
                        Italy
                     should include. The peace treaties with the other states are handled in a similar
                    manner.
            It might be thought that one who patiently plodded his way through all these pages would gain a full
                    and accurate knowledge of the genesis of the peace treaties. This, however, is not true, for the
                    volume does not include any documents on the discussions within the Council of Foreign Ministers
                    while the draft treaties were being prepared. In fact, this volume does not give the reader even the
                    actual terms of the treaties which the defeated powers accepted, for the peace conference merely
                    made recommendations to the Council of Foreign Ministers, which late in 1946 itself decided upon the
                    final terms. This lack of full information is the inevitable consequence of the limited scope of the
                    volume, which deals only with the 
                        Paris
                     Peace Conference. But it might be thought that the reader would at any rate gain at
                    least a full picture of what occurred at the 
                        Paris
                     conference. Even this, however, is not true, for the documents were selected and parts of the story are sometimes missing. For instance, the proceedings of
                    the first plenary session of the conference, when the smaller states vainly attempted to revolt
                    against domination by the Big Four, are omitted. And of the discussions in the Commission on
                    Procedure, where the smaller states again sought to prevent domination by the Big Four, the only
                    document included is an address by Byrnes, which hardly gives the full picture.
            
            Nevertheless, despite its limitations, the volume does provide a great deal of valuable information
                    regarding what occurred at the peace conference. To acquire this information, however, the reader
                    must pay a price in eye strain, for the documents presented are photographic reproductions of the
                    originals which were distributed in 
                        Paris
                    . Since a great many of the originals were mimeographed, and since many of the stencils
                    must have been poorly cut or improperly inked, a considerable number of the documents are barely
                    legible. Incidentally, the copy of the volume which came to this reviewer was bound upside down.
            F. Lee Benns Indiana University
            
         
         
         
            NOTES
            The article on "Hoosier Cattle Kings," by Paul W. Gates, which appeared in the
                    March, 1948, issue of the Indiana Magazine of History was read at the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Historical Association meeting at 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana, on November 7, 1947.
            Stanley Pargellis, "Our Innocent Arsonists," in the March, 1948, issue of the Indiana Magazine of History was presented at the dinner meeting of the Joint
                    Annual Conference of the Indiana Library Association and Indiana Library Trustees Association which
                    was sponsored by the Indiana Chapter of Special Libraries Association at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, on October 30, 1947.
            The University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     has set up a committee on the study of American Civilization which is supported by
                    funds from the Humanities Division of the Rockefeller Foundation. The committee is sponsoring a
                    series of studies in the biographical, political, economic, and cultural history of the state and of
                    the region of which it is a part. Post doctoral grants are available for people who are engaged in
                    such studies and who would like to utilize the facilities of the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     libraries and of the State Historical Society Library. The committee invites proposals
                    from interested scholars. Correspondence should be addressed to Professor Merrill Jensen, Chairman
                    of the Committee on the study of American Civilization, Bascom Hall, University of
                            
                  Wisconsin, Madison
                5, 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
         
         
         
            Geneaology: The Genealogical Resources of the Western Reserve Historical Society Library
            Russell H. Anderson∗
            
            As an introduction to a discussion cf the genealogical department of the Western Reserve Historical
                    Society Library, some account of the Society and its collections may be of interest. It was founded
                    in 1867 and from that time to 1898 it occupied expanding quarters on the Public Square in 
                        Cleveland
                    . From 1898 to 1941 it was located at University Circle, 107th and Euclid. The Society
                    moved to its present quarters, two large Florentine style residences on East Boulevard, opposite
                    Wade Park, in 1939 and 1941. One of these seventy-room buildings houses the historical museum and
                    the other the library.
            From its founding to 1913, the Society continued as a kind of semi-professional organization but did
                    some collecting and publishing in a very creditable manner. On that date, the first full time
                    director, Wallace H. Cathcart, was appointed. His experience had been in the rare-book field, and he
                    had a collector's feeling for books. Much of the present collection is due to his work.
                    Elbert J. Benton, professor of history and dean of the Graduate School of Western Reserve
                    University, succeeded him and served as director until his death in March, 1946. The
                    writer's incumbency dates from January, 1947.
            The stated object of the Society was "to discover, procure, and preserve whatever relates to
                    the history, biography, genealogy, antiquity and statistics connected with the City of 
                        Cleveland
                     and the Western Reserve, and generally what relates to the history of 
                        Ohio
                     and the Great West." While the Society carries the name Western Reserve and is
                    charged from with concern over that area, it has never confined its activities to the Western
                    Reserve alone but has viewed quite seriously the last phrases giving its purposes, and has taken 
                        Ohio
                    , the Northwest, and American history generally, especially the nineteenth century, and
                    American genealogy as its field. Strangely enough, one will find certain non-American 
                  
                     ∗ Russell H. Anderson is the director of the Western
                            Reserve Historical Society, 
                        Cleveland,
                                    Ohio
                     .
               
                     materials there—world exploration, Napoleana, and
                    English history for example—but these items have been windfalls generally, and much
                    energy is not being expended in those directions.
            The over-all resources of the library consist of about two hundred thousand books, perhaps one
                    hundred thousand pamphlets, some twenty thousand volumes of newspapers, about one thousand rolls of
                    microfilm, a fairly extensive collection of maps and atlases, and something like a million
                    manuscripts. To mention a few of the areas of subject matter, there is much material on both sides
                    of the Civil War, a more extensive Lincoln collection than one might expect, a good collection of
                    American travels, much railroad material, and a fairly good Indian section, besides a large body of
                    local history materials. In addition, there are the broader fields, such things as pictures, medals,
                    and by a large margin, the best collection of broken-bank currency in the 
                        United States
                    .
            It is generally understood that the genealogical section of the Western Reserve Historcial Society
                    Library is the sixth in rank in the 
                        United States
                    . Probably it can be justly claimed to give unusual service. This section of the library
                    is in charge of Mrs. Emma Hawley, a professional genealogist of long experience.
            The materials in this section are on open shelves, which greatly facilitates genealogical work.
                    Besides the usual bibliographical aids such as catalogues and indexes, Mrs. Hawley is there to
                    advise patrons regarding the most likely sources and methods of procedure. Years of experience have
                    enabled her to direct the search into the most likely channels and to put her finger on a multitude
                    of facts of interest. The "usual library service," which is freely given, has been
                    extended to an unusual length. Obviously, it is not possible to do extended research on a free
                    reference basis.
            The area of greatest interest and activity for any genealogical library is always a wedge facing in
                    the direction from which the people in its area have come. In this case, the wedge extends from 
                        Ohio
                     to the northeast and southeast and covers the states of New 
                        England
                    , especially 
                        Massachusetts
                     and 
                  Connecticut, New York, New
                        Jersey, Delaware, Maryland
               , and 
                        Virginia
                    . The apex reaches back into Indiana and northern 
                        Illinois
                    , but the activity in that direction usually relates to residents there whose ancestors
                    came through 
                        Ohio
                     on  the way west. Only occasionally does one find a
                    Clevelander who has drifted back eastward from this area. There is a minor interest in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    .
            Of particular interest in this work are the family histories. Of these the library has some thirteen
                    thousand. It is, of course, difficult to localize these since they cut across state and regional
                    lines. In consequence, however, of the intense interest in genealogy in New 
                        England
                    , inspired by the aura of the Mayflower and 
                        Lexington
                     and Concord, more of them concern this section than any other. This section is
                    constantly growing, largely by gifts, but the family history appetite of a genealogist is
                    insatiable.
            County histories have long been used by the general historian with some reserve, but they have proved
                    of great value to the genealogist. The coverage of county histories by states is as follows: 
                        Ohio
                    , probably complete; 
                        New York
                    , good; 
                        Massachusetts
                    , complete; 
                        Connecticut
                    , almost complete; 
                        Maine
                    , good; 
                        Vermont
                    , good; 
                        New Hampshire
                    , good, 
                        Rhode Island
                    , fair; 
                        New Jersey
                    , good; 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , good; 
                        Virginia
                    , fairly good; 
                        Delaware
                    , good. The library, unfortunately, has only a moderate number of county histories of
                    Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    .
            Throughout there is a certain but varying amount of general and local history, which is useful. Of
                    this type of material the greatest amount naturally concerns the immediate homeland of 
                        Ohio
                    , especially the Western Reserve, and this is of the greatest use. All libraries, of
                    course, slant their classification and their shelving to fit their peculiar needs. This library does
                    the same and much of the local history materials are oriented with reference to their use in
                    genealogy.
            There are, of course, the bibliographical aids peculiar to genealogy, the indexes, lists, rosters,
                    etc. To list many of these, which every genealogical library might be expected to have, is much like
                    saying that Western Reserve has a dictionary and the World Almanac. And yet, if
                    one proposes to use the library, one may wish to be assured even regarding the stand-bys. Among
                    these are the New 
                            England
                         Historical and Genealogical Register, the 
                  
                            New York
                         Genealogical and Biographical Record, James Savage, Genealogical
                        Dictionary, the Mayflower Index edited by William A. McAuslan, Earl G.
                    Swem, 
                  
                            Virginia
                         Historical InCrex, and the scholarly Genealogical Dictionary of 
                            Maine
                         and 
                            New Hampshire
                        
                by Charles F. Libby. Lineage books are in a slightly different category  since there is always the problem of completeness in many and
                    sometimes long series. Essentially all the lineage books which have been published, including the
                    D.A.R., the National Society of the Daughters of American Colonists, Founders and Patriots, and
                    Colonial Dames are to be found here. Among the state papers and archives are all those published for
                    New 
                  England, New
                        York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, Virginia
               , and some of 
                        Georgia
                    . The library has a complete set of official 
                        Ohio
                     publications, but from a genealogical standpoint these are not comparable to those just
                    mentioned. The collection includes all of the published rosters of Revolutionary War soldiers from
                    all the colonies. Examples are the voluminous records of 
                  
                            Massachusetts
                         Soldiers and Sailors of the Revolutionary War and the scanty Roster of Revolutionary Soldiers of 
                            Georgia
                        . Related records are the lists of Revolutionary War pensioners. Coming closer
                    to home and the present is the Roster of 
                            Ohio
                         Soldiers in the Civil War, in eleven volumes.
            A list of some of the important items illustrates the scope of the collection. Donald L. Jacobus, American Genealogist; Donald L. Jacobus, History and Genealogy of Old 
                            Fairfield
                        ; Genealogical Magazine of 
                     New
                            Jersey; Putnam
                  's
                        Historical Magazine; Tyler's Quarterly Historical and Genealogical Magazine; William
                        and Mary College Quarterly Historical Magazine; Holland Society of 
                        New York
                    
                    Collections;
                    
                        Worcester
                     Historical Society Publications; Narrangansett Historical Register;
                    Publications of the genealogical societies of 
                  New
                            Hampshire, New Jersey, Pennsylvania
               , and 
                        Ohio
                    ; Publications of local historical societies in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and other states; State historical magazines; William W. Hinshaw, Encyclopedia of American 
                            Quaker
                         Genealogy; and Orra E. Monette, First Settlers of Ye Plantations
                        of Piscataway and Woodbridge.
            
            Since many Hoosiers might wish to trace their ancestry through a generation which lived in 
                        Ohio
                    , there may be an interest in something further on the local history material of 
                        Ohio
                    . Among the most useful items in this field are the Census Records of 1850 for the State
                    of 
                        Ohio
                    . This was the first 
                        United States
                     Census to list the names, ages, and nativity of all persons. The usefulness of this
                    information is obvious and the microfilm record in twenty rolls is in frequent use by the
                    genealogist and the public. It may be well to add, for the 
                    benefit of those who are not familiar with this detail, that the Reference Division of the National
                    Archives in 
                        Washington
                     has the census records, so far as they exist for 1850, 1860, and 1870. One may inspect
                    any of them there—nearly all are in the original—or one may, by arrangement
                    with working genealogists there, have a search made of any county for a fee. Photostatic copies of
                    any of these pages may be had for a reasonable price.
            The library has many of the marriage records of 
                        Ohio
                    . These are being copied by counties by the D.A.R., and the work is to be continued.
                    These names are alphabetized by name of the husband and wife and typed for use. In addition the
                    library has many of the cemetery records, especially in the Western Reserve. Then there are the
                    county histories mentioned above and innumerable town histories, lodge and church records, poll
                    lists, land records, letters, and "other items too numerous to
                    mention"—as the sale bills put it.
            Just a word about English and Continental European genealogy. The library considers this outside of
                    its field and it has almost nothing for the continent. By agreement, the 
                        Cleveland
                     Public Library, which ranks well among the scholarly public libraries, has built up a
                    collection of material invaluable to the English genealogist, i.e. archaeological and historical
                    publications, lineages, etc.—although they do not do genealogical work themselves. It
                    happens, by accident or earlier design, that the Western Reserve Historical Society Library has a
                    fair amount of English genealogical material of this kind. A list of some of these items, follows
                    which anyone is welcome to use, although the library would not presume to offer professional
                    assistance or bibliographical completeness in this field. Some two hundred and fifty volumes of
                    parish marriage registers; William Musgrave, Obituary prior to 1800, five volumes;
                        Miscellanea Genealogica et Heraldica, twenty-eight volumes; Devon and Cornwall
                    Record Society Publications; Genealogist, forty-three volumes; Genealogical Magazine, volumes one to seven; Harleian Society Publications, the visitation series, fifty volumes; and the Registers, thirty-two volumes;
                    Extracts from Scotch Church Records, and Miscellaneous Peerages.
         
         
         
            Family Histories Added to the Genealogy Division of the Indiana State Library within the Past Year
            Compiled by Margarete Ness Butz∗
            
            
               AIKMAN—Aikman family Reunion Association, Annual Reunion. [No.
                        1-4, 1905-1908, Aikman family of Indiana].
               ALDEN—The Descendants of Polly and Ebenezer Alden, who were sixth in
                            descent from John Alden, the pilgrim; by their grandsons Ebenezer Alden and Henry Shaw, M.D.
                            With original records not before printed.. (
                            Boston
                        , G. H. Ellis, printers, 1903, pp. 101).
               BAILEY—The 
                                Virginia
                             Bailey Genealogy Together with related Families (Lewiston, 
                            Idaho
                        , R. G. Bailey Print. Co., 1946, pp. 72).
               BALTZLY—Katherine A. Polsley Bryan. Genealogy of the
                            Baltzly-Balsley-Polseley Family, with other variations of the name and also a sketch of
                            Major Wm. Haymond (
                     Columbus, Ohio
                  , F. J. Heer Printing Co., publishers,
                        1939, pp. 380).
               BANNING—Genealogical and Biographical Records of the Banning and
                            Allied Families, prepared for Miss Kate Banning (
                            New York
                        , The American Historical Society, Inc., 1924, pp. 71).
               BARBER—Lulu Bell Barber, Genealogy of the Descendants of Lyman Barber
                            of Newark Valley, 
                                New York
                            
                   (Brockport, 
                            New York
                        , The Eddy Press, 1944, pp. 60).
               BATES—Thomas M. Marshall, The Life ad Papers of Frederick Bates
                        (2 vols., 
                     St. Louis, Missouri, Missouri
                   Historical Society, 1926).
               BAXTER—Florence Baxter Thornton, Baxter Family (Various paging, map, typewritten).
               BAYNE—Thomas Dwight Bayne, House of Bayne (
                     Los
                                Angeles, California
                  ,
                        1946, pp. 104, typewritten).
               BEEDY—Nelle Beedy Calfee, Family of Mr. & Mrs. J. C.
                        Beedy (
                     St. Louis, Missouri
                  , 1944, pp. 273, mimeographed).
               BIERBOWER—James Culver Bierbower and Charles William Beer-bower (comps.), House of Bierbauer two hundred yews of family history, 1742-1942 (New
                        Wilmington, 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , The Globe Printing Company, 1942, pp. 188. Published under the direction of
                        Beerbower history committee).
               BEGGS—Robert Henry Beggs and Clara Beardsley Beggs, The Book
                            O' Beggs; a genealogical study of the Beggs family in America, also gleanings
                            concerning this ancient Gaelic family of Beig-Begg--Beig-Begge-Beggs
                                (
                     Denver, Colorado
                  , Press of the W. H. Kistler Stationery Co., 1928, pp.
                        135).
               BEWLEY—Donald Dean Parker, Some English Country Gentlemen and Their
                            Affairs (n.p., published by the author, 1946, pp. 135, mimeographed). It contains
                        "material from letters, farm journals, preserved by the Bewley family."
               BIENVILLE—Pierre-Georges Roy, Le Sieur De 
                                Vincennes
                            , Fondateur de l' Indiana et Sa Famille (Quebec, Charrier
                        & Dugal, 1919, pp. 365).
            
            
               
                  ∗ Mrs. Margarete H. Ness Butz is the librarian of the genealogy
                        division of the Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            
               BINNEY—Charles James Fox Binney, Genealogoy of the Binney Family in
                            the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                     Albany, New York
                  , J. Munsell's Sons, 1886,
                        pp. 278).
               BLACKBURN—Vinetta W. Ranke (comp.), Blackburn Genealogy, with notes on
                            the Washington family thru intermarrige… (
                            Washington
                        , D. C., 1939, pp. 157).
               BLACKWELDER—Deward Charles Williams, Sr., Genealogy of the Blackwelder
                            and Allied Families (Edwardsville, 
                            Illinois
                        , 1947, pp. 104, mimeographed).
               BLAIR—Blair Magazine (1 vol., no. 1-3, Erie, 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , 1925-1931). This is the official bulletin of the Blair Society for genealogical
                        research.
               BORDWELL—Lavern Bordwell, The Ancestry of Lavern Bordwell, 1928 A.D.,
                            420 A.D., with every traceable line in America, all colonials and some earlier royal
                            ancestor (
                            New York
                        , The Graf ton Press, 1928, pp. 70).
               BOSSEMEYER—Myrtle Elizabeth (Knepper) Weniger, The Bossemeyer Family
                            and Allied Lines (Corvallis, 
                            Oregon
                        , 1944, pp. 31, mimeographed).
               BREWER—Edward Denton Brewer, The House of Brewer (Tulsa, 
                            Oklahoma
                        , c. 1947, pp. 151).
               BROWNING—Edward 
                            Franklin
                         Browning, Genealogy of the Brownings in America from 1621 to 1908
                                (
                     Newburgh, New York
                  , Journal Print, 1908, pp. 982).
               BUTLER—Elmer Ellsworth 
                            Butler
                         (comp.), Butlers and Kinsfolk, Butlers of New 
                                England
                             and 
                                Nova Scotia
                             and related families of other names, including Durkees, descendants of Lieut.
                            William and Sarah (Cross) 
                                Butler
                            , of Ipswich, Mass., and of Eleazer 1st and Lydia (Durkee) 
                                Butler
                            , of Ashford, Conn. and Yarmouth, N.S., (
                     Milford, New
                        Hampshire
                  , The Cabinet Press, 1944, pp. 326).
               CHANDLER—Walter R. Sanders, The John Chandler Family of Green and
                            Taylor Cos., Ky. (Litchfield, 
                            Illinois
                        , 1947, pp. 57, mimeographed).
               CHANDLER—A Record of the Descendants, of George and Jane Chandler (who
                            emigrated to 
                                Pennsylvania
                             from Wiltshire, 
                                England
                            , in 1687) with a pedigree of the Chandlers of Oare, Wiltshire (Published
                        to commemorate the 250th anniversary of the landing in 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , 1687-1937, by Chandler family reunion committee, 1937, pp. 762).
               CHAPMAN—Mary Elizabeth Roebuck, Genealogy of the Chapman Family,
                            relatives of John Chapman (Jonny Appleseed) (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , Indiana, 1947, pp. 36).
               CLARKE—Cyrus Clarke 
                            Van
                         Deventer, The Ancestors and Descendants of the Rev'd. Henry
                            Clarke, and his wife, Catherine Pendleton, of 
                        Madison
                                    County, New York
                     
                  
                        (Kingman, 
                            Kansas
                        , Marvin & Son printers, 1902, pp. 128).
               CLAYTON—Henry F. Hepburn, The Clayton Family (Wilmington, 
                            Delaware
                        , The Historical Society of 
                            Delaware
                        , 1904, pp. 41, reprint). This was read before the Historical Society of 
                            Delaware
                        , February 15, 1904.
               
               COATES—Truman Coates (comp.), Coates Genealogy, 1715-1906. Genealogy
                            of Moses and Susanna Coates, who settled in Pa., 1717 and descendants (n.p., John C.
                        Winston Co., 1906, pp. 319).
               COCHEU—Lincoln 
                            Chester
                         Cocheu, The Cocheu Family (n.p., 1947, pp. 77, mimeographed).
               COLE—Frank Theodore Cole, The Early Genealogies of the Cole Families
                            in America. (Including Coles and Cowles). With some account of the descendants of James
                            Cole, by Hartfoyd, 
                                Connecticut
                            , 1635-1652, and of Thomas Cole, of 
                                Salem
                            , Mass., 1649-1672 (
                     Columbus, Ohio
                  , printed by
                        Hann & Adair, 1887, pp. 307).
               COOMBS—William Carey Coombs, The Story of Anthony Coombs and his
                            Descendants (
                            Boston
                        , A.C. Getchell & Son, printers, 1913, pp. 219).
               COPE—Gilbert Cope, A Record of the Cope Family. As established in
                            America, by Oliver Cope, who came from. 
                                England
                             to 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , about… 1689, with the residences, dates of
                            births, deaths and marriages of his desaendants as far as ascertained (
                            Philadelphia
                        , King & Baird, printers, 1861, pp. 251).
               CORNWELL—Mrs. Emily Gladys (Richards) Cornwell, Our Family Ties… 1934.
                        [Supplement] The Richards Family of 
                     Virginia,
                                Tennessee
                  , and Indiana (n.p., 1942,
                        pp. 66, typewritten).
               COUENHOVEN—Lincoln C. Cocheu, The Couenhovens and Kinsfolk, some
                            descendants of Wolpert Gerritse van Kouwenhoven and Neeltje Janse through their son Jacob
                            Wolphertsen van Couwenhoven and his first wife Hester Jansen (n.p., 1947, pp. 93,
                        mimeographed).
               DAWSON—Thomas A. Dawson, his Memoirs and Diary 1879-1881. Foreword and notes by his
                        daughter, Rose Dawson Schultheis (n.p. n.d., pp. 68, typewritten).
               DEATRICK—B. A. Dentrick, Deatrick-Hays-Miller-Faith and Allied
                            Families (
                            New York
                        , 1944, pp. 337, mimeographed).
               DENNY—Elizabeth Chapman Denny Vann and Margaret Collins Denny Dixon, Denny Genealogy, Second Book, The descendants of William Denny of 
                                Chester County
                            , Pa., and allied families of Culbertson, Gaston, McNair, Rodgers, Walker and
                            many others and the descendants of George Denny of 
                                Lincoln County
                            , N.C., through his son Alexander (Rutland, 
                            Vermont
                        , The Tuttle Publishing Co., 1947., pp. 404).
               DORSEY—Maxwell J. Dorsey, Jean Muir Dorsey, and Nannie Ball Nimmo, The
                            Dorsey Family: descendants of Edward Darcy-Dorsey of 
                                Virginia
                             and 
                                Maryland
                             for five generations, and allied families (
                     Urbana, Illinois
                  , 1947, pp. 270).
               DURFEE—William Field Reed, The Descendants of Thomas Durfee of
                            Portsmouth, R.Z. (2 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , D. C., Gibson Bros, printers, 1902-1905).
               EBERHART—Oriah Eberhart, History of the Eberharts in 
                                Germany
                             and the 
                                United States
                             from A.D. 1265 to 1890—625 years (
                            Chicago
                        , Donohue & Henneberry, printers and binders, 1891, pp. 263). It includes an
                        autobiographical sketch of the author, who was a minister, and many reminiscences of his
                        ministerial and army life.
               
               ELDER—Lillian Elder Hull, The Historical Record of the Elder
                        Family (Mansfield, 
                            Ohio
                        , Richland Printing Co., 1945, pp. 75).
               EMISON—Estelle Emison (ed.), Diary of James 
                            Madison
                         Emison, 1857-1861; brief history of Emison family from 1744; history of Emison
                        mills 1780-1924 (
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, D.A.R., Francis Vigo Chapter, 1947, pp. 126, typewritten).
               EMISON—James Wade Emison, Jr., The Emison Families, Origin and history
                            of the American Emisons, with partial genealogies and Notes on the following collateral
                            families: Baird, Clarke, Holmes, Posey, Allen, Dunning, Rabb, Sinelair, Scott, 
                                Campbell
                            -McClellan-Patterson-Cullop-Mantle-Brevoort; Simpson; McCord-Hogue; Riley
                                (
                     Ann Arbor, Michigan
                  , Lithoprinted by Edward Bros. Inc., 1947, pp.
                        243).
               EVANS—
                            Marion
                         Boyle Evans, Evans and Allied Families, a genealogical study with
                            biographical notes (
                            New York
                        , American Historical Co., Inc., 1946, pp. 93).
               EWBANK—John and Ann Ewbank Family. Compiled and arranged by
                        Richard L. Ewbank, Louis B. Ewbank, and Mrs. Ama Lana Nowlin Baker, Secretary (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1947, pp. 104).
               EWING—Katherine (Kurz) Burton, Three Generations: Maria Boyle Ewing
                            (1801-1864), Ellen Ewing Sherman (1824-1888), Minnie Sherman Fitch (1851-1913) (
                            New York
                        , Longmans, Green, 1947, pp. 312).
               EWING—Elbert William R. Ewing, Clan Ewing of 
                                Scotland
                            , early history and contributions to America (Ballston, 
                            Virginia
                        , Cobden Publishing Co., 1922, pp. 382).
               FIELD—Frederick Clifton Pierce, Field Genealogy… of all the
                            Field Family in America whose ancestors were in this country FOOT to 1700… Mass.,
                            R.I., N.Y., N.J., N.H., and Va. (2 vols., 
                     Chicago, Hammond
                   Press, W. B.
                        Conkey Co., 1901, pp. 1196).
               FORESMAN—LaVerna Foresman, Foresmun Genealogy; [including] 
                                Brown
                            -Morris-Barney [families] (Unpaged, mimeographed).
               GARRISON—Abraham Elison Garrison, Life and Labour of Rev. A. E.
                            Garrison, forty years in 
                                Oregon
                            . Seven months an the plains, historical sketches of 
                                Oregon
                            , Jan 1st. 1887 (n.p., published by Garrison Clan, 1943, pp. 130).
               GAUMER—Myrtle Elizabeth (Nepper) Weniger, The Gaumer and Allied
                        Lines (Corvallis, 
                            Oregon
                        , 1946, pp. 24, mimeographed).
               GLICK—George H. Glick, Jacob L. Glick, Isaac S. Glick, Davis L. Smith, Jennie Glick
                        (Orr) (comps.), Genealogy of the Glick Family (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1918, pp. 134).
               GRAHAM—Donald Dean Parker, The Graham-Patterson Family History
                        (Brookings, South Dakota, published by the author, 1947, pp. 174, mimeographed).
               GRIMES—Mary A. Grimes, Genealogy of the Grimes Family
                                (
                     Minneapolis, Minnesota
                  , Land Press Inc., 1946, pp. 100).
               HADDON—Eliza Haddon McClure Brevoort (ed.), History and Family Trees of Haddon and
                        McClure Families, Va., Ky., Ind. (
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, D.A.R., Francis Vigo Chapter, 1947, pp. 187, typewritten).
               HARBAUGH—Cora Bell (Harbaugh) Cooprider and J. L. Cooprider, Harbaugh
                            History, A directory, genealogy and.source book of family  records (
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana, Kellar-Crescent Co., 1947, pp. 441).
               HERNDON—John Goodwin Herndon, The Herndon Family of 
                                Virginia
                            
                   (
                            Philadelphia
                        , Priv. Print. by the Engineers Publishing Co., 1947, PP. 60).
               HEVERLY—Neal F. Mears, A History of the Heverly Family, including the
                            spellings, Hever, Heverle, Heverley, Everle, Everley, Eveleigh, Evelegh, Evebigh, Eveley,
                            Everly & Eveleth (
                            Chicago
                        , Bates Print. Co., 1945, pp. 340).
               HOLCOMBE—Hannah Elizabeth (Weir) McPherson, The Holcombes, Nation
                            Builders… their biographies, genealogies and pedigrees (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1947, pp. 1346, lithoprinted).
               HOPKINS—Mrs. Eleanor Gerard Russell, Russell Collection Consisting of Hopkins,
                        Agan, Aikman, Gerard and Allied Families, plus two volumes of letters and papers of authority (6
                        vols., 
                     Detroit, Michigan
                  , 1948, typewritten).
               HOUGH—Emma Hough Rhodes, A Genealogy of the Hough, Hutchins, Woodard,
                            Cox Families (
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana, Nicholson Printing Co., 1935, pp. 47).
               IVEY—George Franks Ivey, The Ivey Family in the 
                                United States
                            
                   (Hickory, 
                            North Carolina
                        , The Southern Publishing Co., 1941, pp. 113).
               JONES—Louis Edward Jones, Genealogical chart of Jones and allied families (Lombard, 
                            Illinois
                        , 1943, fold chart. 61 x 50% cm).
               JONES—Lloyd Peniston Jones, Notes an the Jones Family of Bermuda (
                            Colorado
                         Springs, 
                            Colorado
                        , Out West Print. and Stationery Co., 1947, pp. 145).
               JONES—Albert D. Bell, Descendants of Snow Jones, with genealogical
                            data on families related to them by blood or marriage (Clinton, 
                            Illinois
                        , 1947, pp. 40, mimeographed).
               KALER—Samuel P. Kaler, A Sketch of the Kaler Family for three hundred
                            yews.. (
                            Columbia City
                        , Indiana, 1899, pp. 31).
               KEITH—Keith Frazier Somerville, Keith Genealogical chart (1947, photographed).
               KEMPER—Virginia M. McComb (comp.), Kemper Records (1946) a supplement
                            to the Kemper Family (1899) (Chambersburg, 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , 1946, pp. 240).
               KIRK—Charles H. Stubbs, Historic-Genealogy of the Kirk Family, as
                            established by Roger Kirk, who settled in Nottingham, 
                                Chester County
                            , province of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , about the year 1714… also a record of the descendants of Alphonsus
                            Kirk… (
                     Lancaster, Pennsylvania
                  , Wylie & Griest, 1872,
                        pp. 252).
               LATTERELL—Claudia Ethel Latterell Dziuk, The Genealogy of the
                            Latterell Family, 1803-1933 (
                     Minneapolis, Minnesota
                  ,
                        Merriman Pub. Co., 1933, pp. 99).
               LAWSON—Law son-
                                Chester
                             Genealogy (Altshuler Genealogical Service, [privately printed by the
                        Rumford Press, Concord, 
                            New Hampshire
                        ], 1946, pp. 50).
               LINFORD—James Henry Linford, An Autobiography of James Henry Linford,
                            Sr., Patriarch of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints of Kaysville, 
                                Utah
                            
                   (Logan, 
                            Utah
                        , J. B. Smith, 1947, pp. 104).
               
               LORD—Kenneth Lord (comp.), Genealogy of the Descendants of Thomas
                            Lord, an original proprietor and founder of 
                                Hartford
                            , Conn., in 1636 (
                     New
                            Haven, Connecticut
                  , The
                        Tuttle, Morehouse & Taylor Co., 1946, pp. 482).
               LORD—Kenneth Lord, Certain Members of the Lord Family who settled in 
                                New York City
                             in the Early 1800's, descendants of Thomas Lord of
                                    
                        Hartford, Connecticut
                     
                   (Concord, 
                            New Hampshire
                        , Priv. Print., Rumford Press, 1945, pp. 90).
               LOWER—Joseph Leaney Lower, Some Account of the Lower Family in
                            America, principally of the descendants of Adam Lower, who settled in 
                                Williamsburg
                            , Pa., in 1779 (
                     Cincinnati,
                                Ohio
                  , Monfort & Co.,
                        typographers, 1913, pp. 144).
               LYLE—Daniel Lyle, Daniel Lyle, Immigrant, one of the Lyle family who
                            emigrated from 
                                Ireland
                             to America and settled in the Valley of 
                                Virginia
                             in 1810 (Lewistown, 
                            Idaho
                        , R. G. Bailey Print. Co., 1946, pp. 60).
               McCLELLAN—Frank H. Watt, George Watt of Xenia, The McClellans
                        (Waco, 
                            Texas
                        , Hill Printing and Stationery Co., 1947, pp. 27).
               McCOMB—Peter Hathaway Kemiper McComb, A Genealogical Register of the
                            McComb Family in America, compiled from records furnished by the individual families, and
                            public records, etc. (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1913). 1912-1942 record and notes compiled by Virginia
                        M. McComb (Chambersburg, 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , 1942, pp. 331).
               McCORD—Mrs. William H. DeBolt and Estelle Emison (comps.), Genealogy and Bible
                        Records of the McCord Family and others (
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, D.A.R., Francis Vigo Chapter, 1947, pp. 58, typewritten).
               McCOY—John McCoy, the Diary of John M'Coy of 
                            Clark County
                        , Indiana, volume one, January 1, 1842-December 31, 1844. Volume two, January 1,
                        1856-September 3, 1859. Typewritten.
               McCUNE—Alfred Averill Knapp and Mrs. Amy Edna (Ramey) Mc-Cune (comps.), Some of the Descendants of Robert and Jane () McCune of Bourbon and 
                                Nicholas County
                            , Ky. (Winter Park, 
                            Florida
                        , The College Press, 1947, pp. 57).
               McQUISTON—Leona Bean McQuiston (comp.), The McQuiston, McCuiston and
                            McQuesten Families 1620-1937 (
                     Louisville, Kentucky
                  , The
                        Standard Press, 1937, pp. 750).
               MAJOR—James Branch Cabell, The Majors and Their Marriages
                                (
                     Richmond, Virginia
                  , The W. C. Hill Printing Co., 1915, pp. 188).
                        There are also collateral accounts of the allied families of Aston, Ballard, Christian, Dancy,
                        Hartwell, Hubard, Macon, Marable, Mason, Patteson, Piersey, Seawell, Stephens, Waddill, and
                        others.
               MARSHILL—Thomas Worth Marshall, Family of William and Rebecca (Dixon) Marshill, 
                            Cane Creek
                         Monthly Meeting, 
                            Orange County
                        , N.C. (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1945, pp. 54, typewritten).
               MARTIN—Mrs. Anna Carrington (Martin) Porcher, The Martin Family 1680-1933 (n.p.,
                        n.d., pp. 37, typewritten).
               MENDELL—Mary Porter Smith and Sidney Dean Smith (comps.), Mendell
                            Family Genealogy, an account of the ancestors and descendants of Isaac Mendell and Patience
                            Harlow, also some descendants  of John Mendell
                                (
                     Mason City, Iowa
                  , Klipto Loose Leaf Company, 1943, pp. 127).
               MITCHELL—James 
                            Mitchell
                        , David and Margaret 
                                Mitchell
                            , emigrants from Ulster, 
                                Ireland
                            , to the American Colonies in 1763; an account of their lives, with a genealogy
                            of their descendants (
                            Boston
                        , Press of Blanchard Printing Company, 1907, pp. 241).
               MONTGOMERY—David B. Montgomery, A Genealogical History of the
                            Montgomerys and their Descendants (Owensville, Indiana, J.P. Cox, 1903, pp. 436).
               MOOD—Thomas McAlpin Stubbs, Family Album, an account of the Moods of
                                    
                        Charleston, South Carolina
                     , and connected families,
                                (
                     Atlanta, Georgia
                  , Curtiss Printing Company, Inc., 1943, pp. 246).
               MOORE—James Moore 
                            Brown
                        , The Captives of Abb's Valley, a legend of frontier
                        life, by the Rev. James Moore 
                            Brown
                        … New ed., with introduction, notes and appendices, maps and
                        illustrations, by Robert Bell Woodworth, D.S.C., (Staunton, 
                            Virginia
                        , Printed for the author by the McClure Co., Inc., 1942, pp. 254).
               MORRISON—Leonard Allison Morrison, The History of the Morison or
                            Morrison Family… A complete history of the Morison settlers of
                            Londonderry, N.H., of 1719, and their descendants, with genealogical sketches (
                            Boston
                        , A. Williams & Co., 1880, pp. 468).
               MORTON—John Nece Morton, The Morton Family Tree; Chauncey Morton and
                            Betsy 
                                Pike
                            , their ancestry and descent (
                     Springfield, Missouri
                  ,
                        1947, pp. 125).
               OWEN—Ralph Dornfeld Owen (ed.), Descendants of John Owen of Windsor, 
                                Connecticut
                             (1622-1699); a genealogy (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1941, pp. 532).
               QUICK—Arthur Craig Quick, A Genealogy of the Quick Family in America
                            (1625-1942) 317 years (South Haven and Palisades Park, 
                            Michigan
                        , privately published by A. C. Quick, 1942, pp. 483).
               ROGERS—I. Newton Williams, The Rogers-Tufler Family (Bradley
                        Beach, 
                            New Jersey
                        , Clarence W. Smith Press, 1946, pp. 120).
               ROLLER—Jacob B. Roller, Historical Sketch of the Descendants of Jacob Roller,
                        prepared by Jacob B. Roller, William B. Roller and Simon Roller… copied by Velma
                        Moeller… (
                            Columbia City
                        , Indiana 1948, pp. 9, typewritten).
               SCOTT—Walter L. Scott, The Scott Family and Others, including the following
                        families, Bouse, Dolly (Dahle) Chenowith, King, Low, Rector, Riddle, Thurman & Williams
                        (1946, Photostat of typed copy, Loose Leaf, pp. 53).
               SCOTT—George A. Scott, Genealogy of Samuel Scott of 
                     Virginia, North Carolina,
                                Kentucky
                   and Indiana (
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana, 1934, pp. 73, typewritten).
               SHAFER—Agnes Hodgins Tolbert, Edith Shaffer Hodgins, and Ruth Myers Goppert, The Genealogical History of Jacob Shafer (Belleville, 
                            Kansas
                        , The Telescope Pub. Co., 1947, pp. 43).
               SHIMER—Allen R. Shimer, History and Genealogy of the Shimer Family in
                            America (Allentown, 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , Berkemeyer, Keck & Co., 1908, pp. 535).
               SHIPP—Walter Ray Sanders, The Shipp Family from Essex, Carolina,
                                    
                        Faquier Counties, Virginia
                      to Green, Taylor, Woodford, Jefferson, 
                            
                                Fayette
                            , Bourbon, Scott, Christian, 
                        Owen
                                Counties, Kentucky
                      and 
                                Johnson County
                            , Indiana (Litchfield, 
                            Illinois
                        , 1946, pp. 50, mimeographed).
               SHRYOCK—Rhea Duryea Johnson, The Shryock Line, Descendants of Hans
                            Jarick (or Hans Jerg) Schreyack (Johannes George Schreyack) (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1945, pp. 90, mimeographed).
               SIZER—Lillian Hubbard Holch, Sizer Genealogy, a history of Antonio
                            Dezocieur who changed his name to Anthony Sizer (
                            Brooklyn
                        , Bowles, Printer, 1941, pp. 489).
               SMITH—Margaret Ruth Waters and Donald D. Murphy, Smith Family,
                            descendants of George and Barbara (Bash) Smith of 
                        Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania
                      and 
                        Coshocton
                                County, Ohio
                     , whose
                            children migrated westward through 
                                Hancock County
                            , Indiana and 
                        Madison County, Iowa
                     , with allied lines of Bash, Waters,
                            Ruby, Hogle and Murphy (n.p., 1946, pp. 280, mimeographed).
               SMITH—John Smith Kendall, Chronicles of a Southern Family
                        (Reprinted from the 
                     
                                Louisiana
                             Historical Quarterly, 1946, pp. 21).
               STAFFORD—George Mason Graham Stafford (comp.), General LeRoy Augustus
                            Stafford, his forebearers and descendants; a genealogy (
                     New Orleans, Louisiana
                  , Pelican Publishing Company, 1943, pp. 474).
               STAHL—Lillian Elder Hull, Genealogy of the Family of William Stahl and
                            his Wife Elizabeth Boyer Stahl (Mansfield, 
                            Ohio
                        , Richland Printing Co., 1945, pp. 184).
               STANDISH—Charles W. Richards, Standish-Bassett (in line) Mayflower Families (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, n.d., pp. 51, typewritten).
               STANDISH—Myles Standish, The Standishes of America (
                            Boston
                        , Privately printed for the author by S. Osher, 1895, pp. 145).
               STEWART—Benjamin Frank Severance, Genealogy and Biography of the
                            Descendants of Walter Stewart of 
                                Scotland
                            , and of John Stewart, who came to America in 1718, and settled in Londonderry,
                            N.H. (
                     Greenfield, Massachusetts
                  , Printed by T. Morey & Son, 1905,
                        pp. 215).
               STOUDT—Herald F. Stout, Staudt-Stoudt-Stout Family of 
                                Ohio
                            
                   (n.p. 1935, pp. 363).
               STOUT—Herald F. Stout, The Staudt-Stoudt, Stout Family of 
                                Ohio
                             (and their anscetors at home and abroad) (Preliminary edition, n.p.,
                        1935).
               STOUT—T. H. Streets (comp.), The Stout Family of 
                                Delaware
                            , with the Story of Penelope Stout (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1915, pp. 107).
               STUKEY—Elmer Leonidas Denniston, Genealogy of the Stuky, Ream Grove,
                            Clem, and Denniston Families (
                     Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
                  ,
                        1939, pp. 591).
               SUTTON—Oliver Barrick Rowland, An Ancestral Chart and Handbook;
                            genealogical notes of the Sutton and Rittenhouse families of Hunterdon Co., NJ. with
                            Mattison, Bonham, Fuller and Fox connections and some records of the Barrick and Shepherd
                            families (
                     Richmond, Virginia
                  , Garret & Massie
                        Publishers, 1935, pp. 199).
               THORNBROUGH—H. Dale Sommers, Some Genealogical Records of the Thornbrough
                        Family… a compilation of some records concerning some of the descendants of Thomas
                        and his wife Hannah  Thornbrough who married about 1718 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1947, pp. 65, typewritten).
               TREAT—John Harvey Treat, The Treat Family, a genealogy of Trott,
                            Tratt, and Treat… (
                     Salem,
                                Massachusetts, Salem
                   Press Publishing & Printing Co., 1893, pp. 637).
               VALENTINE—Thomas Weston Valentine, The Valentines in America
                        1644-1874 (
                            New York
                        , Clark & Maynard, 1874, pp. 248).
               VAN WAGNEN—Frank Leslie 
                            Van
                         Wagnen, The Ancestry of Garret Conrad 
                                Van
                             Wagnen, in the five collateral lines of Pels, Elting, 
                                Van
                             Den Berg, Ten Eyck, and Bogart and in the ten allied lines of Slicht, Lansing,
                            Halenbeck, Rapalje, 
                                Van
                             Ardalen, 
                                Van
                             Schouw, Bergen, Lubertsen, Bodine, Crocheron (Buffalo, 
                            New York
                        , 1946, pp. 116, mimeographed).
               WADE—
                            Franklin
                            Marion
                         Brand, The Wade Family, 
                        Monongalia
                                    County, Virginia
                     , now
                            West 
                                Virginia
                            
                   (Morgantown, West 
                            Virginia
                        , 1927, pp. 486).
               WALKER—Annie Walker Burns, World Walker Families Records (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1946, mimeographed).
               WARE—
                            Franklin
                         Weston Mann, Descendants of Elisha Ware of Wrentham, 
                                Massachusetts
                            , to Januray 1, 1896 (
                     Milford, Massachusetts
                  ,
                        1896, pp. 8).
               WASSON—W. A. Wasson, Wassons of U.S.A. 1938-1939 (
                            New York
                        , 1943, pp. 29).
               WHIPPLE—Claire Alonzo Newton, Captain John Whipple, 1617-1685, and his
                            descendants… and Ralph Hemmenway records (
                     Naperville, Illinois
                  ,
                        1946, pp. 69).
               WINCHELL—A. N. Winchell, The Winchell Genealogy… since
                        1635 (2nd Ed., 
                     Minneapolis, Minnesota
                  , published by Horace V. Winchell,
                        1917, pp. 554).
               WOOD—Wood-Woods Exchange (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., published by Katie-Prince Ward Esker, 1947, v. 1, no. 1-3).
               WOODS—Lucy Alexander Embrey, The Origin and Genealogy of the Woods
                            Family, as can be traced from 1619-1895 (Kingsport, 
                            Tennessee
                        , Kingsport Press, Inc., 1940).
               YOWELL—Clark Samuel Yowell, Yowell; a genealogical collection
                        (Somerville, 
                            New Jersey
                        , privately printed by Clark S. Yowell, 1931, pp. 26).
            
            
            Pamphlets
            
               BARNETT—Thelma Murphy, The Barnett Family of 
                     Pennsylvania, North Carolina,
                                Georgia
                   (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1948, pp. 19, typewritten).
               BOONE—Leo T. Crismon, The Boone Family and 
                                Kentucky
                             Baptists (
                     Louisville,
                                Kentucky, Kentucky
                   Baptist Historical Society, 1946, pp.31).
               BRENNER—Scott Francis Brenner, The Brenner Family, history of the
                            ancestors and descendants of Jacob Brenner and Elizabeth Goehring (Reading, 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , 1946).
               CARNAHAN—Mrs. Eleanor Gerard Russell, The Carnahan Family, from the records of
                        Falura Aikman Carnahan McCrary, of 
                            Washington
                        , Ind., 1933 (
                     Detroit, Michigan
                  , 1948, pp. 13, handwriting).
               DOUGLAS—Edith (Attkisson) Rudder, My Father's Family;
                            Douglas, Haden, Churchill, Blakey, George, Perkins, Oglesby, Attkisson and allied
                        families (
                            Salem
                        , Indiana, Leader Pub. Co., 1947, pp. 119).
               EBERHART—Mrs. Velma W. Moeller (comp.), Eberhart Family (
                            Columbia City
                        , Indiana, D.A.R., Colonel Augustin de La Balme Chapter, 1947, pp. 19, typewritten).
               ESTEP—Russell Adin Estep, Estep Genealogy and Family History
                                (
                     Redwood City, California
                  , pp. 58, mimeographed). It was compiled in
                        1944-1945 and added to with corrections in 1947.
               FOX—M. J. and Mabel Stafford, A Genealogy of the Descendants of Thomas
                            Fox, son of Jonathan and Sarah Fox (
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana, 1947, pp. 36, mimeographed).
               GROVE—George N. Groves, Genealogy of the Grove and Groves
                        Families (Berkeley, 
                            California
                        , 1941, pp. 30, mimeographed).
               HILLEGAS—Jack Stewart Schell, The Hillegas Family in Europe and Early
                            America (
                     Los Angeles, California
                  , 1947, pp. 16, mimeographed).
               IRWIN—Richard Prather Irwin, The Irwin and De Moret Families, the ancestry and
                        descendants of Robert James and Jane (De Moret) Irwin, copied from the original manuscript by
                        Willard C. Heiss (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1948, pp. 7, typewritten).
               KIMZEY—Herbert Bennett Kimzey, Chart of the Kimzey and Kimsey family (Cornelia, 
                            Georgia
                        , 1947, p. 1, photostat).
               LINDLEY—Nancy Lindley Oslund, Jonathan Lindley, the Paoli Pioneer
                        (Paoli, Indiana, Stout's Print Shop, 1947, pp. 17).
               MACDONALD—Mable (Warner) Millikan, From Adam to the 130th Generation, a MacDonald
                        family in America (pp. 28, typewritten).
               MOORE—Descendants of Daniel and Lucy Moore 1786-1910 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1910, pp. 20).
               NEWLAND—Robert E. Newland and Leon L. Newland, The Newland (Newlon)
                            Family, (
                            Bedford
                        , Indiana, 1946, pp. 80).
               PATTERSON—Carl W. Wade, Patterson-Piggott Family of 
                        St. Louis County, Missouri
                     
                   (
                     Los
                            Angeles, California
                  , 1947,
                        pp. 7, mimeographed).
               PITTS—Carl W. Veale, Pitts Family of 
                            North Carolina
                         and Indiana, including the descendants of Stephen A. Pitts and his wife Rachel  Hendricks of 
                            Marion County
                        , Indiana (
                     Los Angeles, California
                  , 1947, pp. 6, typewritten).
               RICHARDSON—Louis B. Bradford Richardson, Notes on Richardson, Burgett, Paskings
                        Families (Trafalgar, Indiana, 1943, pp. 6, typewritten).
               ROCKWELL—Ezra Brainerd, Jr., Sylvester Bird Rockwell, 1813-1881, a
                            biographical sketch (
                     Middlebury,
                                Connecticut
                  , 1945, pp. 20).
               SCHERER—Walter Ray Sanders, The Scherer Family 'of
                                    
                        Montgomery County, Illinois
                     
                   (Litchfield, 
                            Illinois
                        , 1945, pp. 57).
               SPRINGER—W. O. Springer, Springer-Miles Families. Compiled by W. O. Springer in
                        1932, with added information by Mable Warner Millikan (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, n.d., pp. 53, typewritten).
               STOUT—Oliver H. Stout, Stout Family Records taken from the Bible of Oliver H. Stout (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1948, pp. 10, typewritten).
               STOUT—Mrs. Hubert A. Brown, Notes and Letters on the Daniel Stout Family (
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, 1948, pp. 25, typewritten).
               THOMAS—Charles Chalmer Thomas, Ancestry of Charles Chalmer Thomas of 
                            Marion
                        , Indiana (parts 2-4, pp. 26, typewritten).
               VEALE—Carl W. Veale, Veale Family of Cornwall, Parish of St. Columb
                        Major… (
                     Los Angeles, California
                  , 1948, pp. 16, typewritten).
               WEIR—John Weir, Memoirs of Alex Weir of Southeastern 
                            Montgomery County
                        , Indiana. Dictated by his son to Caroline 
                            Brown
                         Krout, 1890-1895 (pp. 8, typewritten).
               WYATT—T. E. Jean Wyatt, Genealogy of the Wyatt Family (Clanton, 
                            Alabama
                        , 1939, pp. 8).
            
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
