
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 035, Issue 4, pages 363-458. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:035+issue:4+year:1939&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The 
                        Brown County
                     Art Colony
            JOSEPHINE A. GRAF
            
            Indiana has been the home of the landscape painter, because of the natural background of hills and
                    hollows, foliage and skylines. Painters have found these a natural interest. Artists from distant
                    places as well as native sons have often been brought under the spell of Hoosier landscapes.
                    Frequently they have come to Indiana by chance and have been so fascinated by a particular locality
                    that they have become permanent residents. Consequently, artists have settled in various parts of
                    the state. Some work in groups, and some individually, wherever there is hope of achievement. As in
                    the early history of art in Europe, where artists congregated in active towns or cities, art
                    interest developed in Hoosier towns and cities in a natural way. Among these are
                            
                  Muncie, Richmond
               , Oldenburg, 
                  Indianapolis, Terre Haute
               , and 
                        Nashville
                     of 
                        Brown County
                    .
            Some painters, as did the poet Riley, have delighted in depicting "the native son"
                    in his simple provincial mode of life. It is not surprising then that artists of all
                    kinds—etchers, sculptors, portrait painters, and figure painters—have made 
                        Brown County
                     a rendevous. Four artists, upon their return from study and travel in Europe, exerted a
                    special influence on the development of a characteristic Hoosier art. They were J. Otis Adams,
                    William Forsyth, Otto Stark, and Theodore C. Steele.1 Each by his example 
                  
                     1 The first three of the four artists here mentioned are not dealt
                            with in this article, but they, as well as Mr. Steele, were teachers and leaders in the art
                            move-nent in Indiana. They studied abroad, but, before their return to the 
                                United States
                            , they decided that the material for art inspiration was practically
                            inexhaustible in their home state. It was while at a display of the work of American artists
                            In a Munich art gallexy that Forsyth and Adams agreed to this truth. and thw there
                            determined to come home to paint in Indiana. Adams located in 
                                Muncie
                            . Indiana, where Steele was for a time associated with him. These two men once
                            had a studio together at Broakville, Indiana, for a brief period, and Adama retained a
                            studio there till his death. Mr. Steele left 
                                Muncie
                             to work for a while at what became the John Herron Art Institute. Forsyth
                            returned from abroad to
               
                     and teaching directed an active interest in landscape as a
                    theme of art.
            Mr. Steele was among the first to appreciate the scenic possibilities of the state. He was a pioneer
                    in the sense that he used the entire state as a field of egpression. He worked in
                            
                  Muncie, Indianapolis, North Vernon, Brookville
               , and, finally, he was the first painter in
                    the 
                        Brown County
                     hills. The old Munich tradition had made a profound impression upon him. His art was a
                    development of European traditions influenced by a characteristic Hoosier background and tempered by
                    an independent will. As a painter, he went into 
                        Brown County
                     about 1907. At that time, it was so remote and inaccessible because it had no railroads
                    or good highways that it had been less affected by change than any other part of the state. There
                    Mr. Steele developed his ideals unharrassed. Public elements interested in art were soon intrigued
                    by his landscapes of 
                        Brown County
                     hills, old beeches, and rustic rail fences. More and more attention began to be focused
                    on this region.
            Frank Hohenberger has done a great deal to make the public conscious of 
                        Brown County
                    . He originally went there for his health, but, being an artist with his camera, he soon
                    photographed landscape compositions and outstanding characters in and near the county seat. A sense
                    of humor and an appreciation of the homespun philosophy of the natives caused him to write a series
                    of newspaper articles in which he used the pictures to illustrate the unaffected atmosphere of the
                    region. People were both curious and interested in the quaint, little town of 
                        Nashville
                    , for as we all know, it is only too seldom that anything remains unchanged in the midst
                    of change. Mr. Hohenberger was really pointing out opportunities to those who were interested in
                    such an out of the way place.
            Among the early artists to settle there was Ada Walters 
                  
                            work in Indiana. where he exerted a strong influence on the study of art in the statr. Hr
                                held many notable connections, the last of which was that of instructor in the John
                                Herron Art School. Mr. Stark, the fourth of the group, after a short period in 
                                    Cincinnati
                                , returned to Indiana to tearh art in the Manual Training Hiah School of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                . and painting and composition at the John Herron Art Institute.
                            Once when the four artids were exhibiting with the Society of Western Artists. a critic
                                spoke. of them as the "Hoosier Four." The name stayed with them and
                                their coöperation and friendship incrensrd. Because each gave of his time and
                                talent to make pnblic contacts, exhibits and lectures, art appreciation grew in Indiana.
                                To know any one of the four. Adams. Forsyth. Steele. or Stark, was to know the others.
                                Their influence and enthusiasm were typical of their love of art and have been
                                instrumental in directing the course of art development in Indiana.
                        
               
                     Schulz. She was born in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and attended art school in 
                        Chicago
                    . Early in her career, she became interested in idealistic figure work. She built her
                    work around the native mother and child theme, painting local madonnas. She stood out in the 
                        Brown County
                     Art colony as the one who first attempted, as a figure painter, to build the theme
                    around the use of the figure or figures. In this she worked in contrast to the portrait painter who
                    builds his theme around the characteristics of likeness of the particular sitter or sitters at the
                    sacrifice of any other possibilities in the theme. At the time of her death in 1928, she had gained
                    great recognition in her work.
            Another seasoned painter, Adolph Robert Schulz, migrated from the dairy country of 
                        Wisconsin
                    .2 He once jokingly remarked that he had to leave his native Delavan
                    because "the cows ate up the landscape." He returned, however, to his native
                    environment after having studied in 
                  Chicago,
                            Paris
               , and Munich, but the encroaching
                    dairying industry made it necessary for him to seek new haunts. He discovered 
                        Brown County
                     as a result of a series of walks through Indiana. He is academically trained and has
                    never departed from this tradition. His summers are spent in 
                        Brown County
                     and his winters in Sarasota, 
                        Florida
                    . His wife, Alberta Rehm Schulz, although not so well known in the art world as her
                    distinguished husband, has recently exhibited her paintings in both 
                        Brown County
                     and in 
                        Florida
                    .
            Louis O. Griffith is a landscape painter and etcher who established himself in 
                        Nashville
                    , the county seat, quite a while ago. A native of 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana, he studied in 
                  St. Louis,
                            New York
               , and 
                        Paris
                    . He has exhibited throughout the country. He is primarily an etcher and one of unusual
                    merit. Early in his career, he developed a color process from which prints were made that were
                    purchased by the Canadian Government. As a serious painter of landscape, he experiments with it from
                    both the conservative and modern viewpoint.
            "Will" Vawter and Marcus Dickey arrived in 
                        Brown County
                     about 1910. Mr. Dickey was secretary to Jhmes Whitcomb Riley and Mr. Vawter was
                    undertaking to illustrate a Riley book that the former had edited. They found two 
                  
                     2 For an article by the artist, Adolph Robert Schulz, see Iadiana Magazine of History (Deeember, 1936). XXXI. 282–289.
               
                     things well adapted to their prsjec—hne the rustic
                    atmosphere, the other the simple, wholesome people with peculiarities and traits that exemplified
                    Riley's characters. Both men have made their homes in 
                        Brown County
                     ever since. Mr. Vawter originally came from 
                        Virginia
                    . He was a newspaper illustrator, but painting and etching were hobbies that later
                    became his profession. His paintings have won considerable recognition through his exhibitions and
                    prizes. Then there is Mary H. Vawter. She established a studio on Hill Top road. Her chief
                    contributions are landscapes with an occasional portrait.
            One who has unostensibly forged to the front and caused 
                        Brown County
                     to be better known as an art colony is Marie Goth. Her foremost ooncern is portrait
                    painting, but she also enjoys painting still life, particularly flowers. Recently, however, portrait
                    painting has left her little time for other interests. She studied extensively in 
                        Cincinnati
                     and in various eastern art centers. Her varied talents make her a most versatile person
                    in that she can play and sing very beautifully as well as paint. For a time, she considered
                    seriously entering the concert world, but perhaps an inborn timidity led her to express her great
                    love for the beautiful in painting, which permits her to live more quietly. It is not surprising
                    then, that, when she visited a friend in 
                        Nashville
                    , she decided that this would be an ideal place to work. She and her sister, Genevieve
                    Goth, took a cabin where they could both work and rest.
            The latter, now Genevieve Goth Graf,3 as a close companion to her sister also has
                    that great love for beauty which has found expression in still life painting and wood carving. Her
                    pictures, though a bit different from the average, still live because she develops art themes from
                    articles of common usage in daily life. These are most fascinating because she is well versed in
                    both traditional pattern and color.
            Edward K. Williams was a commercial artist in 
                        Chicago
                    , but, as a result of the study of painting in both oil and water color as a hobby,
                    painting was to become his profession. As a commercial artist, he developed a series of poster
                    stamps in which he ignored traditional characteristics common to that type of work. His success in
                    this line gave an impetus to 
                  
                     3 Wife of Carl C. Graf, a brother of the writer.
               
                     his interest in art as a profession. With this change, he found 
                        Brown County
                     more stimulating than 
                        Chicago
                    .
            Another "old timer" in the art colony is Carl C. Graf. Having been born and reared
                    in southern Indiana, his interests lay where he found a wide variety of country that was typical of
                    what he had known and loved in his youth. By nature he is idealistic and poetic with a great love
                    for the open country. After a period of preparation in 
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati
               , and
                    the East, he selected 
                        Brown County
                     for his rural studio because of the immense variety of material and the seclusion from
                    the confusion and din of the commercial world. Whether the landscape is realistic or poetic, he
                    finds there the opportunity to develop his special interests.
            Photography was the hobby that ultimately drew Curry Bohm to 
                        Nashville
                    . He was born in the South, the son of an artist, but was denied early training in art
                    because of strenuous parental objections. Later, however, he studied in 
                        Chicago
                     where he worked as a photographer. At first, he was satisfied to hunt out the scenic
                    spots in and around 
                        Nashville
                    . Each visit was more intriguing until at last he made it his residence that he might
                    continue his artistic pursuits. As a painter, he is profoundly influenced by poetry. His themes are
                    often developed as an inspiration from nature rather than the realism of nature. In summer, he
                    directs the 
                        Brown County
                     School of Painting and Landscape.
            Dale Bessire settled in 
                        Brown County
                     as a manager of an orchard. Having previously studied art as a hobby in both 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    , he soon found it to be his major interest. His landscapes are widely distributed
                    throughout the country and his name has come to be a familiar one in many art circles.
            Italian born Varaldo J. Carrani is another landscape and flower painter of note, invariably
                    associated with those who enjoy the retreat in the hills of 
                        Brown County
                    . He was well schooled in the East and came to Indiana as a result of friends made while
                    a student in the East. His inherent love for gay colors, mellowed by an appreciative soul, make his
                    landscapes and flower pictures delightful and interesting to all lovers of art.
            Hill Top School has been a medium of expression for Mrs. Musette Osler Stoddard since she is
                    primarily interested  in art as a teacher. This is a fertile
                    field for her initiative, for here, basketry, ceramics, weaving, and sketching are taught.
            George La Chance is another artist who was first a photographer with painting as a hobby. He was
                    formerly from 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana. Like a number of others with similar hobbies, his interest in both portrait
                    painting and landscape grew until they became his profession.
            The influence and reputation of the 
                        Nashville
                     locality has brought a number of seasonal painters from various places. Some of the
                    better known of these are: Paul Sargent from 
                  Charleston, Illinois
               ; George
                    Mock from 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana; Charles Dalgreen and Thomas Topping from 
                        Chicago
                    ; and Leota Loop, the well known flower painter from 
                        Kokomo
                    , Indiana.
            Perhaps Lucy Hartrath of 
                        Chicago
                     is the most widely known of all artists that come and go with the alternating seasons.
                    She studied in 
                  Chicago, Paris
               , and Munich. Very early in her career, she became interested
                    in Hoosier landscapes. Her annual visits to 
                        Nashville
                     began about twenty years ago and she has identified herself with it ever since.
            The fact that these artists have organized the 
                        Brown County
                     Art Gallery Association with specific qualifications for membership has increased
                    public interest in their work. It has enabled the members to display a continuous exhibition that is
                    fairly representative of the work of the group. About fifteen painters maintain studios or
                    residences within a short distance of 
                        Nashville
                     and other members, even though they are not in residence, maintain a close working
                    relationship with the Association. These artists exhibit their work in various representative
                    exhibitions and private collections throughout the country. Their contributions are quite
                    diversified in nature, in subject matter, and in interpretation. NO doubt the talents of this rather
                    heterogeneous group are tempered by the influence of the environment upon them. The part that 
                        Brown County
                     has actually had in this variation can not be measured, yet, with its growing
                    popularity, it must be assumed that this verdant country and the naive natives have made an
                    indelible impression.
         
         
         
            Judges of the Federal District Court of Indiana⋆
            
            LOUIS B. EWBANK
            
            Pursuant to an enabling act passed six months previously, Indiana adopted a state constitution on
                    June 29, 1816. In due time, though communication with 
                        Washington
                     was then difficult and slow, the ordinance accepting the conditions imposed in the
                    enabling act reached 
                        Washington
                    , and, on December 11, a measure admitting Indiana into the Union received President
                    Madison's signature. The printed state constitution was sent to 
                        Washington
                     by Governor Jonathan Jennings and laid before Congress on January 9, 1817.
            It was on March 6, 1817, that Benjamin Parke was appointed as judge of the 
                        United States
                     court for the district of Indiana. This new federal district had been created by an act
                    of Congress passed three days before. The new judge was a native of 
                        New Jersey
                    , then thirty-nine years old. Born on September 2, 1877, he had come to 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1801, after having spent three or four years at 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , where
                    he studied law. After coming to Indiana, he soon became a warm friend and supporter of the
                    territorial Governor, William Henry Harrison, who appointed him to the office of Attorney General of
                    the territory, which office he held from August 4, 1804, until June 2, 1808, serving in the meantime
                    as a representative in the territorial legislature during the sessions of 1805 and 1806, as
                    territorial delegate to Congress from December 12, 1805, until April 23, 1808, and then as one of
                    the territorial judges. He was also territorial chancellor from June 14, 1813, to October 1, 1814.
                    While holding the judgeship, he is said to have ridden once on horseback through the forest from 
                        Vincennes
                     to 
                        Salisbury
                    , then the county seat of 
                        Wayne County
                    , only to find that the single case for trial at that term was a charge against a boy
                    for stealing a pocket knife worth twenty-five cents. He held this office until after the territory
                    was admitted as a 
                  
                     ⋆ On April 1, 1939, the members of the bar presented to
                            Judge Robert O. Baltzell of the 
                                United States
                             court for the southern district of Indiana photographs or portraits of all of
                            his ten predecessors. These ten judges, all presided over the 
                                United States
                             court for the district of Indiana. Two federal districts were created for
                            Indiana after Judge Baltzell's appointment and he was assigned ta the district for
                            southern Indiana. Before the division the district for Indiana had existed for one hundred
                            seven years. The terms of the ten judges varied from a few months to twenty-two years. The
                            ten pictures have been hung on the walls of the district court library room at 
                                Indianapolis
                            . They are arranged from the right; near the southeast corner of the room, to
                            the extreme left, nean the southwest corner, in the order of thrir succession. The article
                            here published is Judge Ewbank's presentation address, with several minor
                        changes.
               
                     State, when he resigned on February 8, 1817. He was active as a
                    member and officer of the frontier militia, commanding a company of dragoons at the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     in 1811. After this engagement, he was made commander of the cavalry in General
                    Harrison's army with the rank of major. He also repeatedly served as an Indian agent and
                    commissioner in negotiating treaties with the Indians. He was a delegate to the convention which
                    framed the Constitution of 1816, in which he is said to have exercised great influence. After the
                    admission of Indiana, which terminated his service as a territorial judge, he was commissioned as
                    president judge for a few weeks in the first district, composed of Gibson, 
                  Knox, Orange
               , Perry, 
                        Pike
                    , Posey, Sullivan and 
                        Warrick counties
                    , established on January 3, 1817. He probably never held court under this appointment,
                    for he is recorded as having been commissioned on January 15, 1817, and as having resigned in each
                    of those counties on February 8, 1817. He became the federal district judge four weeks later.
                    Federal litigation would not appear to have been very heavy in the early days of statehood, since
                    the first case was recorded in the district court after the lapse of more than two years, when an
                    indictment against Andrew Hilton was returned on May 4, 1818, for selling whiskey without paying the
                    tax. A jury found the defendant not guilty.
            In January, 1825, the federal court of Indiana was removed to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The last case at Corydon was scire facias for a debt of
                    $1031.23, entitled Cuthbert Bullitt w. Richard M. Beth's
                    Adminitrators, which was dismissed on November 6, 1824. The first case at 
                        Indianapolis
                     was a libel action for the confiscation of liquor and other goods alleged to have been
                    seized because of illegal trading with the Indians. It was tried on January 5, 1825, one half the
                    goods being awarded to the informer. Judge Parke served until his death on July 13, 1835, in his
                    fifty-seventh year. For some time before his death, he suffered a partial paralysis. The marked
                    change in his signatures, as they appear on the records, would indicate that he had grown quite
                    feeble at the last, though continuing to hold court.
            Judge Monks, in his Courts and Lawyers of Imdiana, says that Judge Parke was one of
                    the two best lawyers in the Constitutional Convention of 1816, and one of its most influential
                    members. Oliver H. Smith says, in his Early Indiana
                    
                    Trials and Sketches, that Parke "was a fair, but not a great
                    lawyer," adding that he "made a first-rate judge; patient, courageous and
                    kind," and commending the judge for his honesty and common sense, which should make a judge
                    useful, if it does not otherwise especially distinguish him.
            Judge Parke acquired one of the largest private libraries in the territory, was active in
                    establishing public libraries at Corydon and 
                        Vincennes
                    , was at one time chairman of the board of trustees of 
                        Vincennes
                     University, and was the first president of the Indiana Historical Society, founded in
                    1830. Books from his library are now owned by different persons in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , among whom is a member of our committee, Albert L. Rabb.1
            
            The second 
                        United States
                     district judge was Jesse Lynch Holman. His commission was dated September 16, 1835,
                    more than two month after Judge Parke's death. Judge Holman was born at
                            
                  Danville, Kentucky
               , on October 24, 1784. He taught school, preached and wrote a
                    novel of which he tried in later life to buyl up all the copies so as to destroy the entire edition,
                    under the belief that novel reading was harmful. He studied law in the office of Henry Clay, at 
                        Lexington
                    , and attempted to practice at what is now Carrollton, 
                        Kentucky
                    , before he came to 
                        Dearborn County
                     in or about the year 1810. He built his residence on a hill adjoining the present site
                    of 
                        Aurora
                     and overlooking the Ohio River where it makes a right-angle turn.
                    From this point, one can have a magnificent view up the river northeast towards 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , or down the river southwest towards Rising Sun, or east across a broad expanse of
                    level lands in 
                        Kentucky
                     on the other side of the river. He and the wife he had married at Carrollton brought
                    with them a family of negro slaves that she had inherited from her father, all of whom they
                    emancipated. Here he, and then his son, William S. Holman, for thirty years a member of the National
                    House who was called the "Watchdog of the Treasury," and his grandson William S.
                    Holman, Jr., an attorney, lived in succession for almost a hundred years. The great-grandchildren
                    have recently sold the place to Cornelius O'Brien who has built a summer home there with
                    gardens 
                  
                     1 See "Beniamin Parke," Dictionary of
                                American Biography (biographical sketch by George S. Cottrnan). Albert L. Rabb died
                            at 
                                Indianapolis
                             on September 13, 1939.
               
                     and landscaped surroundings. Except for a few months after his
                    arrival and three or four years, two decades later, Judge Holman held public office all the time
                    that he lived in Indiana.
            On May 28, 1811, he was appointed prosecuting attorney for 
                        Dearborn County
                    , and still held that office on October 19, 1812, but for how much longer does not
                    appear. In 1814 he was a representative at the special session of the territorial legislature in
                    June, and a legislative councilor at the regular session in August, being elected president of the
                    council. On September 14 of the same year, the settled portion of the territory being districted
                    into three judicial circuits, he was appointed by Governor Harrison as presiding judge of the courts
                    of the second circuit, composed of the counties of Clark, Harrison, Jefferson and 
                        Washington
                    . He served in this capacity untiI December 21, 1816, when he resigned to accept an
                    appointment by the Governor as one of the three judges of the Supreme Court of the newly organized
                    State of Indiana, for which place he was that day confirmed by the Senate. His commission as Judge
                    of the Supreme Court was dated December 28, 1816, and he served two seven-year terms, but Governor
                    James 
                        Brown
                     Ray refused to reappoint him. In 1831, he was an unsuccessful candidate for election to
                    the 
                        United States
                     Senate to succeed General James Noble, who had died in 
                        Washington
                    . The election was by the general assembly and John Tipton won on the seventh ballot,
                    receiving fifty-five votes. The highest vote received by Holman on any ballot was forty-two. Judge
                    Holman now retired to private life for a few years. The death of Judge Parke four years later was
                    followed by the appointment of Judge Holman as 
                        United States
                     district judge on September 16, 1833, which position he held until his death on March
                    28, 1842. He was one of a board of twenty-two trustees chosen by the legislature to take over the
                    Indiana College at 
                        Bloomington
                     and reorganize it as Indiana University (1838). He presumably served until 1841, when
                    the legislature named an entirely new board of only nine trustees.
            Judge Holman continued to be a preacher while advancing through all the gradations of law student,
                    practicing lawyer, prosecuting attorney, legislator and judge, preaching as opportunity offered and
                    duty called. He served as pastor of the Baptist Church at 
                        Aurora
                     for several years preceding  his death. Doubtless
                    all of his service to his church was gratuitous. In August, 1815, while he was a presiding judge,
                    holding court with the assistance in each county of two associate judges, Jesse L. Holman advertised
                    a sale on Septemben 4, 1815, of lots in the new town of 
                        Decatur
                    , near the center of the present city of 
                        Aurora
                    . Four years later, when he was one of the judges of our newly created Supreme Court, he
                    became the active head of an organization of speculators, most of whom resided in 
                        Kentucky
                    , which group purchased several hundred acres of land bordering on the Ohio
                        River. On this they laid out a town much larger than "
                        Decatur
                    ," but embracing the same site, which they called "
                        Aurora
                    ." Tradition has it that the town of Rising Sun having been established nine
                    miles farther down the river, Judge Holman gave as his reason for choosing the new name that "
                        Aurora
                     comes before the Rising Sun."2
            
            Reading through the Journal of the Senate covering the first session at which the law was enacted
                    creating a Supreme Court, and the appointment as judges of Jesse L. Holman and others was approved,
                    one finds this statement concerning the state senator from 
                        Dearborn County
                    : "Mr. Ferris laid before the house a petition of John Ewbank and others,
                    praying that an act be passed more effectually to encourage the killing of wolves." Later
                    entries recite the introduction and passage of such an act (published as Chapter 23 of the Acts of 1816) which provided a bounty of two dollars for each wolf two months or
                    more of age, and one dollar for each wolf-puppy less than two months old, if killed within six miles
                    of any settlement. It should be remembered that this was when two dollars would buy an acre of the
                    best lad open for settlement. John Ewbank was the great-grandfather of the writer. He with only a
                    bridle trail down the rocky bed of the creek for a road out to civilization, then lived in the last
                    house back in the wilderness from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . His home was on the same spot where his great-grandson now lives, half a mile from the
                    railroad, with the pavement on State Highway 56 passing his door; with telephone, radio, automobile,
                    electricity and any other twentieth cenutry conveniences that he may choose to pay for.
            Elisha Mills 
                        Huntington
                     succeeded Judge Holman. Receiving 
                  
                     2 See "Seeking a Federal Judgeship" (Holman
                            Correspondence), Indiana Maga zine of History (Sept., 1939). XXXV,
                            311–326: also Bee "Jesse Lynch Holman. Dictionary of
                                American Biography (sketch by William O. Lynch).
               
                     his commission on May 2, 1842, he served as Federal District
                    Judge for more than twenty years. He was born in Otsego County, in east central 
                        New York
                    , on March 29, 1806. In 1822, he came with his parents to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana. Here he studied law in an office, and at the age of twenty-three was elected
                    prosecuting attorney for the seventh circuit, which embraced 
                        Vigo County
                    . At twentyfive, he was elected to the legislature, which met annually under the old
                    constitution, and served during the sessions of 1831, 1832 and 1833, continuing through the first
                    two of those years to appear in court as prosecuting attorney. At that time, the president judges of
                    the different circuits were chosen by the General Assembly, and, in 1837, 
                        Huntington
                     became president judge of the seventh circuit, which consisted of ten counties:
                            
                  Clay, Daviess,
                            Greene, Knox
               ,
                    Martin, 
                        Monroe
                    , Owen, 
                        Putnam
                    , Sullivan and Vigo. He resigned his position in 1841 to become Commissioner of the
                    General Land Office at 
                        Washington
                    , then resigned as Commissioner the following year on being appointed as judge of the 
                        United States
                     district court. A Whig legislature having been elected in 1840, an act was passed in
                    the following February which abolished the board of trustees of Indiana University with right of
                    perpetual succession to which the legislature of 1838 had appointed twenty-two Democrats,
                    substituted what appears to have been a bi-partisan board of nine, also given power to fill all
                    vacancies in their own body unless and until some future legislature should interfere, and named as
                    one of the trustees Elisha M. Huntington. Just how long he continued to be a trustee has not been
                    learned with certainty. He lived for a time in 
                        Perry County
                     on a large tract of land that he had purchased bordering on the Ohio
                    River. It embraced the present site of Tell City, but, in 1858, he sold the whole tract
                    to the Swiss Colonization Society, and re-established his residence at 
                        Terre Haute
                    . He died on October 26, 1862.
            One of the celebrated cases decided by Judge Huntington was that of an owner of negro slaves in 
                        Missouri
                     who had removed them to 
                        Illinois
                    , remained there until he had gained a legal residence and had voted there, and
                    afterwards had taken the negroes back to 
                        Missouri
                     and sold them to the plaintiff. Under an instruction by the court that upon these facts
                    the slaves became free under the law of 
                        Illinois
                    , and  that the subsequent purchaser acquired no
                    title, a jury found for the defendant (Vaughan v. Williams 3 McLean 530). This was
                    in 1845, eleven years before a majority of the Supreme Court of the 
                        United States
                    , in deciding the Dred Scott case, declared that Scott and his wife and daughter were
                    not released from slavery under facts which were similar, except that the army surgeon who took Dred
                    Scott and his family into the free state of 
                        Illinois
                     and then into the territory which afterwards became 
                        Minnesota
                    , north of the line fixed by the 
                        Missouri
                     compromise as the northern limit of slaveholding territory, did not become a citizen of
                    either place before he returned to 
                        Missouri
                     and sold his slaves there.
            Caleb Blood Smith, the fourth of the 
                        United States
                     district judges for the district of Indiana, was appointed on December 22, 1862, almost
                    two months after Judge Hunting-ton's death. Resigning the position of Secretary of the
                    Interior in President Lincoln's cabinet to accept this appointment, Judge Smith, then
                    little more than fifty-four years of age, was doubtless attracted by the life tenure of the
                    judgeship. However, he died on January 7, 1864, one year and sixteen days after he was appointed.
            Judge Smith was born at 
                  Boston, Massachusetts
                on April 16, 1808. Coming to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , he began in a law office there the legal studies which he continued in the office of
                    Oliver H. Smith at 
                        Connersville
                    , to which place he had come by following the course of public improvements up the
                    Whitewater Valley to locate there in 1827. He was an able and successful advocate and a master of
                    forensic eloquence. Turning his attention to politics, he was repeatedly elected to the House of
                    Representatives of the state legislature, of which he was Speaker during the sessions of 1835 and
                    1836. He served three terms in the lower House of Congress, from 1843 to 1849, and was a nominee of
                    the newly formed Republican Party in 1856 for presidential elector. Four years later, he presided at
                    the National Convention in 
                        Chicago
                     which nominated Abraham Lincoln for President, and, being generally credited with
                    influence in getting Mr. Lincoln nominated, was made Secretary of the Interior in March, 1861. He
                    continued in the Cabinet until made a judge. It is said of him, as of Moses, that the place where
                    his body is now buried is unknown. It is said to have been buried in the old cemetery on 
                        Kentucky
                     Avenue in 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                     about the time of the opening of Crown Hill Cemetery, in which
                    the widow afterward built a large mausoleum. Some controversy arose over the desire of his Masonic
                    friends to remove him to 
                        Connersville
                    , and twenty years ago it was reported that the body was no longer in the mausoleum. A
                    report circulated that because of her controversy with his friends, the widow did not want the exact
                    place of his burial known.2
            
            Albert S. White was appointed as the fifth 
                        United States
                     district judge, succeeding Judge Smith. Born at Blooming Grove, 
                        Orange County
                    , 
                        New York
                    , not far from the 
                        New Jersey
                     state line, on October 24, 1803, he was graduated at Union College in the same class
                    with William H. Seward, afterwards Lincoln's Secretary of State. He studied law, and, in
                    1825, was admitted to the bar in 
                        New York
                     before he came to Indiana. He died at Stockwell, 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    , Indiana, the first station out of 
                        Lafayette
                     on his railroad on September 24, 1864.
            On coming to Indiana, he first located at 
                        Rushville
                    , then removed to Paoli, and, in March, 1829, took up his residence at 
                        Lafayette
                    . He acted in different capacities, as reporter, assistant clerk and clerk in
                    succession, at sessions of the legislature, which then met annually, from 1828 until 1835. He was
                    very active in procuring the construction of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal at 
                        Lafayette
                    , and the canal-boat that made the first trip from there to 
                        Toledo
                     bore his name. He was an unsuccessful candidate for a seat in the national House in
                    1832, but was elected as a Whig in 1836, and re-elected in 1838, each time carrying every county in
                    his district. In 1839, Senator John Tipton having refused to run again because he sensed defeat for
                    the Democrats, Representative White was elected to the Senate of the 
                        United States
                     to succeed him and served one term of six years. Notwithstanding Senator 
                        Tipton
                    's withdrawal, the contest for the place in 1839 was so spirited that
                    thirty-six ballots were required for a choice.
            In 1845, Senator White resumed the practice of law, but soon afterwards, upon the organization of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     & 
                        Lafayette
                     Railroad under its charter, approved January 19, 1846, he became its president and
                    actively assumed the 
                  
                     3 See Louis J. Railey. "Caleb Blood Smith," !,ndianu Magazine of Historv (Sept., 1933), XXIX. 218–239: also
                            nee "Caleb B. Smith, Dictionary of American Biography (sketch by
                            Newton D. Mereness).
               
                     burden of its construction, being a pioneer in the construction
                    of railroads in the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley.
            The rails for this new line were brought by canal boat to 
                        Lafayette
                     and its construction proceeded southward from that point. In September, 1850, the board
                    of directors ordered that payments for each share of capital stock should be made at the rate of
                    $5 every 90 days, beginning in October. The following June (1851), President White
                    advertised in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel that the iron would soon be delivered, when the laying of the rails would
                    commence so as to run cars to 
                        Lebanon
                     early in the Fall and to 
                        Indianapolis
                     early the next Spring (1852), urgently requesting prompt payment of installments.
            In 1852 he organized and for three years served as president of the 
                        Wabash
                     & Western Railway, at first extending from 
                        Lafayette
                     to 
                        Logansport
                    , to which the first train was run on March 20, 1856. This railroad was a principal
                    factor in killing the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, which it paralleled throughout its forty miles, and as afterward
                    extended was made to parallel it for more than two hundred miles, from 
                  Toledo, Ohio
               ,
                    to 
                        Williamsport
                    , Indiana, within ten miles of the 
                        Illinois
                     State line. Whitestown, the first station south-east of 
                        Lebanon
                     on what was then the 
                        Lafayette
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad (now part of the Big Four) perpetuates Judge White's name as a
                    railroad executive.
            At about this time, his activity in constructing and operating railroads appears to have ceased, but
                    the practice was then followed of naming locomotives, as had been customary with steamboats, instead
                    of merely numbering them; and the Albert S. White locomotive continued to bear his name until the
                    time of his death. That it also carried his picture on its headlight is attested by a note attached
                    to such a picture (about 12 by 18 inches) in the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Historical Association Museum at 
                        Lafayette
                     which states that this picture was "on the outer exposure of the
                    headlight" of that locomotive from 1854 until 1864.
            Judge White was made a trustee of Indiana University in 1846 and served until 1851. He was again
                    elected to Congress in 1860, but was defeated for renomination in 1862, his defeat being attributed
                    to his earnest stand in favor of emancipation. He was appointed by President Lincoln to succeed
                    Judge Caleb B. Smith as 
                        United States
                     district judge  on January 18, 1864. He presided as
                    judge of the district court for only a few months before the summer vacation. The first entry in the
                    Order Book bearing his signature was on March 8, 1864, and the last was in June when court adjourned
                    for the summer. His last public service was at the ceremonial dedication of Crown Hill Cemetery at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on June 1, 1864, where he was listed as the principal speaker.
            The city of 
                        Lafayette
                     accorded him civic honors at his funeral. A special train carried a number of prominent
                    citizens to Stockwell and, brought back the funeral party, and after elaborate funeral services,
                    participated in by the mayor, common council, the judges and members of the bar, he was buried in
                    the old plot adjoining Greenbush Cemetery. The 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier of September 6, 1864, the day of the funeral, suggested as a fitting
                    tribute to his memory that all business be suspended from 1:30 to 3:00 P.M., that is, during the
                    funeral ceremonies. Judge White is remembered as a successful advocate, ranking high as a beginner
                    among the circuit-riding bar. Judge Monks says in his Courts and Lawyers of
                    Indiana that he "neglected his law practice for politics."4
            
            David McDonald was appointed to succeed Judge White and took the oath of office on December 13, 1864.
                    He died on August 25, 1869. Judge McDonald was born on May 4, 1803, in Logan County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , a few miles west of Bowling Green, removed to Indiana in 1817, and was admitted to the
                    bar at 
                  Washington, Daviess
                            County
               , in 1830. While a student he had been licensed in 1820 to preach
                    in the religious body known as New Lights. He was elected as a state representative in 1833. From
                    December 4, 1834, until he resigned on August 17, 1837, he was prosecuting attorney for the Seventh
                    Circuit, which then embraced the ten counties of 
                  Brown, Clay, Daviess, Greene, Knox
               , Martin, 
                        Monroe
                    , Owen, 
                        Putnam
                    , Sullivan and Vigo.
            On January 28, 1839, Judge McDonald was chosen by the legislature, as provided in the constitution of
                    1816, to a seven-year term as president judge of the tenth circuit, newly created by redistricting
                    the state into eleven circuits where there had been only nine. On. taking possession of this office,
                    he removed to 
                        Bloomington
                    . His new circuit embraced eight counties: 
                  Brown, Daviess, Greene
               , Lawrence, 
                  
                     4 See "Albert S. White," ibid
                            (sketch by Newton D. Merenesa).
               
                    
                    
                        Monroe
                    , Morgan, Martin and Owen. Six of these were taken from the seventh circuit. The
                    president judge of the old seventh circuit, Elisha M. Huntington, therefore preceded Judge McDonald
                    on the circuit bench, with an interval of less than two years between them, and was in turn followed
                    by him as Judge of the Federal District Court. Judge Huntington, as we have seen, resigned on July
                    12, 1841, from the circuit court for the seventh circuit to go to 
                        Washington
                     as Commissioner of the General Land office. Being reelected, Judge McDonald continued
                    as a president judge until October 12, 1852, when he was succeeded by Alvin P. Hovey, afterwards
                    Governor of Indiana, who had been elected as judge by popular vote under the provisions of the newly
                    adopted constitution of 1851 that is still in force. In 1852, Judge McDonald was a candidate for
                    election as a judge of the state supreme court and ran ahead of his ticket, but was defeated. During
                    all of his term as prosecuting attorney and until after the close of his first term as circuit
                    judge, there was not a railroad nor even an improved highway in any of the counties that he served
                    and he traveled his circuit on horseback.
            At the time of his appointment as 
                        United States
                     district judge for Indiana in 1864, he would seem to have been conducting a private law
                    school; and, forty-five years ago, it was asserted that he continued to do so at least for a time
                    after he was appointed. In 1841, while he was president judge of the tenth circuit, including 
                        Monroe County
                    , Judge McDonald accepted an appointment as the first law professor of Indiana
                    University, by which name the former "college" at 
                        Bloomington
                     had begun to be called, and a historian of fifty years later asserts that on the fifth
                    of December, 1842, he "read the first law lecture ever read in this state." It
                    seems, however, that others had been previously elected by the board of trustees to the position of
                    law professor, Judge Miles C. Eggleston, former Representative Tilghman A. Howard being reported as
                    declining to accept the position when chosen. Judge Isaac Blaclrfcrd, who in 1852 ended a term of
                    thirty-six years as judge of the Supreme Court of Indiana, is said once to have been elected as law
                    professor of Indiana University, but he preferred a federal position at 
                        Washington
                    . There is also some reason to believe that Mr. Charles Lewis  may have been law professor while the institution was operating as
                    Indiana College before the year 1838.
            Judge McDonald served on the faculty of the law school until 1852, being all of the time a circuit
                    court judge. He quit his professorship five years after the first railroad reached 
                        Indianapolis
                     connecting the city with the steamboat lines on the Ohio River at 
                        Madison
                     and at about the time that different railroads reached 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 
                  Lafayette, Terre Haute, Jeffersonville, Lawrenceburg, Richmond
               , Winchester and Peru, all of which have since become parts of
                    through lines into and across adjoining states. In fact, it was only five years after the beginning
                    of the era of plank road and turnpike building in the older settlements, when the flood of
                    incorporations for that purpose by special acts had run as high as sixty-six in a year (1851),
                    besides companies formed under the general law.
            These acts allowed four or five or more years within which to complete an improvement, but so far as
                    the writer's knowledge goes, none of them was ever constructed in the counties constituting
                    the tenth judicial circuit. Judge McDonald's public service to the state as judge in a
                    circuit of eight counties was given on a dirt road basis of probably three miles an hour, with
                    substantially a whole day consumed in traveling from one county seat town to another. He removed to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1853, where he engaged actively in the practice of law, being at one time a partner
                    of David Macy, and at another of Albert G. Porter, afterwards Governor of Indiana. Here his book
                    entitled McDonald's Treatise on Justices of the Peace and Constables was
                    published in 1857. After repeated revisions, this book is still recognized as an authority on the
                    powers and duties of Justices of the Peace and practice in justices' cqurts. In 1855 and
                    1856, he served as a trustee of Indiana University. In the latter year, Judge McDonald was chosen as
                    President of Indiana Asbury University, now DePauw, at 
                        Greencastle
                    , but declined.5
            
            Walter Q. Gresham was thirty-seven years of age when Judge McDonald died. He began the practice of
                    law at Corydon in 1853, was elected to the state legislature in 1860, was made Colonel of the
                    Fifty-third Regiment of Indiana Volunteer 
                  
                     5 See Flora McDonald Ketcham. "David McDonald," Indiana Magazine of History (Sept., 1932), XXVIII, 180–187;
                            "Diaries of Judge David McDonald, ibid. (Dec., 1952),
                            282–301.
               
                     Infantry when the Civil War broke out in 1861. By a series of
                    promotions, he was advanced to the rank of Major General, which he held when he was mustered out in
                    1865. In 1867–1868, he served as financial agent of the state of Indiana in 
                        New York City
                    .
            He was appointed as district judge by President Grant on September 1, 1869, and held that office
                    until April 11,
            1883, when he resigned. He became Postmaster General in President Arthur's Cabinet two days
                    later. A year and a half afterwards, on September 24, 1884, he became Secretary of the Treasury, but
                    five weeks later, on October 28,
            1884, he quitted the President's Cabinet on being appointed 
                        United States
                     circuit judge for the seventh circuit. He sought nomination by the Republican National
                    Convention as its candidate for the presidency in 1888, when Benjamin Harrison was nominated and
                    elected, and again in 1892, when President Harrison, being renominated, was defeated by Grover 
                        Cleveland
                    . He supported President Cleveland's candidacy during the campaign of 1892, and
                    was appcinted to the President's Cabinet as Secretary of State on March 6, 1993, when he
                    resigned as circuit judge. He continued as Secretary of State until his death, two years later.
            Judge Gresham was born near Lanesville, a few miles east of Corydon, in 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana, on March 17, 1832. He was a student at Indiana University for a short time,
                    but left without graduating and studied law in an office in Corydon, a frequent method of acquiring
                    a legal education in the Middle West ninety years ago. Admitted to the bar in 1853, at twenty-one
                    years of age, he practiced his profession for half a dozen years, when he became a member of the
                    legislature in 1860, an officer of the volunteer army in 1861, state financial agent in 1867,
                    district judge in 1869, cabinet officer in 1883, circuit judge in 1884, and again a member of the
                    President's Cabinet in 1893. He died on May 28, 1895, without ever having engaged actively
                    in the practice of the law, except for the first few years of his professional life. During his
                    service in the army, he was repeatedly a member of courts martial, where his learning and skill as a
                    lawyer were called into play. One court martial in which he participated was that of Colonel Thomas
                    Worthington, of 
                        Ohio
                    , accused of issuing a pamphlet charging  his
                    superior officer with having disobeyed an order of General Grant in command at the Battle of 
                        Shiloh
                    .
            Colonel Gresham was barely thirty years old in 1862, while the court martial included three brigadier
                    generals and three colonels, all his seniors. The truth or falsity of what was charged in the
                    pamphlet was not inquired into, its publication while the army was facing an enemy being adjudged to
                    constitute insubordination, for which Colonel Worthington was dismissed from the army. Colonel
                    Gresham maintained that, since the commanding officer who had preferred the charges and who
                    testified at the trial had appointed the members of the Court, Colonel Worthington's denial
                    of the accuser's right, even in time of war, to bring an officer to trial before a court
                    the members of which had been chosen by such accuser, should be sustained. Five years later the
                    order of dismissal was revoked, and Colonel Worthington was permitted tol resign as of the date when
                    it had been approved. Notwithstanding his limited experience at the bar and his political
                    activities, Judge Gresham took high rank as a judge during his fourteen years on the district bench
                    and eight years as a circuit judge. Dying at 
                        Washington
                     while in the President's Cabinet, he was given soldier's burial in
                    Arlington Cemetery.6
            
            William Allen Woods resigned his position as judge of the Supreme Court of Indiana to become judge of
                    the 
                        United States
                     district court on May 8, 1883, after Judge Gresham became Postmaster General. He had
                    been elected to the legislature of Indiana in 1866, was elected in 1872 circuit judge of the
                    thirty-fourth circuit in Indiana, comprising the counties of 
                        Elkhart
                     and LaGrange, and reelecte: l in 1878. Two years later he was elected to the Supreme
                    Court of Indiana where he served until appointed 
                        United States
                     district judge. After serving nine years as district judge, he resigned to become, on
                    March 17, 1892, a 
                        United States
                     circuit judge of the seventh circuit, which position he held for another nine years,
                    until his death on June 29, 1901.
            Judge Woods was born on May 16, 1837, near Farming-ton, 
                  Marshall
                            County, Tennessee
               . When he was
                    only a month old, his father died, and his mother having remarried 
                  
                     6 See Mary Alice Tyner. "Waltrr Q. Grecham," ibid. (Dee., 1933). XXIX, 297–338: James R. Mock, "The
                            Diplomaey of Walter Q. Gresham," ibid. (Sept., 1935). XXXI
                            213–221: "Walter Q. Gresham, Dictionary of American
                                Biography (sketch by Herbert F. Wright).
               
                     when he was seven years old, the family moved to 
                        Iowa
                    , where his step-father soon afterwards died. His boyhood was spent on his
                    mother's farm in 
                        Iowa
                    . Returning to Indiana, he entered 
                        Wabash
                     College in 1855, and after graduating in 1859, taught school. He began the practice of
                    law at 
                        Goshen
                     in 1862.7
            
            The resignation of Judge Woods was followed by the appointment of John H. Baker as 
                        United States
                     district judge on March 29, 1892. At the end of ten years of service, having passed the
                    age of seventy, he resigned on December 16, 1902. Judge Baker was born near 
                        Rochester
                     in 
                        Monroe County
                    , 
                        New York
                    , on February 28, 1832. His childhood and youth were spent on a farm near the 
                        Michigan
                     line, in 
                        Fulton County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . He spent two years at 
                        Ohio
                     Wesleyan University and then read law at Adrian, 
                        Michigan
                    . In 1857, he settled at 
                        Goshen
                    , 
                        Elkhart County
                    , Indiina, and commenced practice as an attorney. In 1874, when the so-called Granger
                    upheaval upset so many political calculations in the west and central states, he was one of ten new
                    Representatives from Indiana out of a total of thirteen, and, being twice reelected, he served in
                    Congress until March 4, 1881. At the end of his third term, he declined reelection, and thereafter
                    continued actively in the practice of law until he became district judge eleven years later. After
                    his resignation from the judgeship, he retired to his home in 
                        Goshen
                    , and, for almost fourteen years, lived there quietly among his old friends and
                    neighbors, in the full enjoyment of "honor, love, obedience and troops of
                    friends." Although nearly eightyseven, years old, he continued to the last so active and so
                    deeply interested in current events and the development of the law that it would seem he must
                    sometimes have regretted giving up the office he had filled so well.
            Upon the resignation of Judge Baker as judge of the 
                        United States
                     district court, Albert B. Anderson was appointed as his successor, on December 18,
                    1902, and continued in that office until January 14, 1925, when he was appointed as one of the
                    judges of the federal circuit court of appeals. He served more than four years, before retiring in
                    June, 1929. Judge Anderson was born on February 1, 1857, at Eagle Village, in 
                        Boone County
                    , near Zionsville, Indiana, 
                  
                     7 See "William Allen Woods." Dictionary
                                of American Biography (sketch by George W. Goble).
               
                     to which latter place the family removed in his early
                    childhood. His father was Philander Anderson, a druggist, and his mother was Emma Dugan Anderson.
                    Both were Presbyterians who gave each of their five sons and their one daughter a college education.
                    Later in life, the father became a banker at. Zionsville, but afterwards removed with his wife and
                    younger children to Anthony, 
                        Kansas
                    . Judge Anderson was graduated from 
                        Wabash
                     College in 1879, and for a time studied law in the office of McDonald and 
                        Butler
                     at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and then with Hurley and Crane at Craw-fordsville. He was admitted to the bar at
                            
                  Crawfordsville, Montgomery County
               , Indiana, in 1881. While yet a student, he was made
                    deputy prosecuting attorney for that county. He was elected Prosecuting Attorney in 1886 and
                    reelected in 1890, serving four years. As prosecuting attorney, he conducted many important cases,
                    the most noted of which was the prosecution of the Reverend William F. Petit on the charge of
                    murdering his wife. His closing argument for the prosecution in that case brought him much acclaim.
                    While in college, he won first honors in state and interstate oratorical cpntests, and while at the
                    bar frequently appeared as a public speaker.
            Attorney Anderson joined with Benjamin Crane in forming the law firm of Crane and Anderson in 1885, a
                    connection which continued until he ceased to practice law in 1902. He was married in November,
                    1882, to Miss Rose 
                        Campbell
                    , whose younger sister was married in 1896 to his law partner, Benjamin Crane. The 
                        Campbell
                     sisters were daughters of Professor John L. Campbell of 
                        Wabash
                     College. The only child of Judge and Mrs. Anderson, a son, died in early infancy. Judge
                    Anderson practiced his profession twenty-one years, until appointed 
                        United States
                     district judge. He was a man of wide reading, which with his practice at the bar in
                    Indiana, added greatly to his qualifications both as a trial judge and as a chancellor. His judicial
                    work in equity cases, while not so spectacular as in jury trials, was appreciated and admired by the
                    bar and by others under whose notice it came. His integrity was never doubted. When he seemed
                    severe, it was the severity required by the faithful performance of duty. He wrote few opinions, but
                    not infrequently would orally announce from the bench his reasons for a decision or a ruling that he
                    was making. His worth  was often recognized by assignments to
                    sit as a trial judge in the federal courts at 
                  Chicago, New York City
                and
                    elsewhere. He was sometimes called to assist in deciding appealed cases in the Circuit Court of
                    Appeals at 
                        Chicago
                    , when a judge was absent, even before he was promoted to be a circuit judge.8
            
            
               
                  8 For brief sketches of Albert B. Anderson, who died in 1938, and Robert
                        C. Baltzell, his successor. who is now judge of the 
                            United States
                         wurt for the district of southern Indiana, see Who's Who in
                            America.
            
         
         
         
            Orland, Indiana
            H. H. EVANS
            
            The first white settler at Orland, in 
                        Steuben County
                    , Indiana, was John Stocker of 
                        Vermont
                     in 1834. In 1835 many other settlers arrived from the state of 
                        Vermont
                     and built their log cabins along Crooked Creek, now called "Fawn
                        River." Those most prominent, with their families, were Benjamin Pierce, the
                    Parmenters, the Wards, the Coes, Captain Barry and others. The Cabin of John Stocker was the third
                    erected in 
                        Steuben County
                    , and Orland, then known as the "
                        Vermont
                     Settlement," was the first settlement in 
                        Steuben County
                    . The first white child born in 
                        Steuben County
                     was Sarah L. Pierce who afterwards became the wife of Alsinus Townsend. Miss Eliza
                    Eaton was the first school teacher (1836). She afterwards married Augustus Kimball and was the first
                    bride of the settlement. The wedding ceremony was conducted by J. M. Hall, a Baptist minister.
            These early settlers came to Indiana over the Vistula Highway which was to northern Indiana what the
                    National Road was to central Indiana. The Vistula Highway is in the program of improved highways and
                    in a short time will be paved across the state. The 
                        Vermont
                     Settlement prospered from the start and developed many industries, such as a pump
                    factory, a woolen mill, a carriage factory, a flour and corn mill, a brick factory, a crockery
                    factory and a chair factory. At that time, Coldwater, 
                        Michigan
                    , twenty miles away had but one log cabin. The post office was established in 1837 and
                    Alexander Chapin was the first postmaster. The people of this community have always been an honest,
                    hospitable, thrifty, religious and God-fearing people. Yes, the 
                        Vermont
                     community was one of culture and from the first established churches and schools. In
                    1850, an academy was established at Orland known as the North Eastern Literary Institute. It was
                    prominent for several years as one of the outstanding educational institutions of the state.
            This country was then, and is now, a part of the finest hunting and fishing area of Indiana and here
                    the Potta-watomi Indians under their Chieftain Baw Beese roamed the country at will. Wall Lake, one
                    and one-half miles west of Orland, where the wrfter has a summer home, was named  after a wall erected by the Indians on its west shore and where their
                    main camp was located. The author has many arrow heads and Indian trinkets that have been picked up
                    n that neighborhood. Pottawatomi Inn at Pokagon Park was named after the Indian tribe of that name.
                    When the post office was established it was named "Millgrove" but it was
                    discovered that there was another post office in the state by the same name, and it was agreed at a
                    "Singing-School" that the teacher should open the song-book, and that the first
                    tune which should greet his eyes would become the name of the town. Lo and behold! The first tune
                    was that old, old hymn, "Orland"; and that became the name of the village, believe
                    it or not!
            Another matter of historical interest is the attitude of Orland in the Civil War. The people living
                    there were always anti-slavery and had one of the most noted Under-Ground Railroad stations in the
                    North. It is too long a story to go into here, but there is a tradition that Eliza Harris of Uncle Tom's Cabin fame was kept over night in Orland on her way to 
                        Canada
                    .
            A further item of history relating to Orland is its record holding postmaster by the name of
                    Christian Schneider. He was postmaster under the following national administrations, namely: those
                    of 
                        Franklin
                     Pierce, James Buchanan, Abraham Lincoln, Andrew Johnson, Ulysses S. Grant, 
                        Rutherford
                     B. Hayes, James A. Garfield, 
                        Chester
                     A. Arthur, Grover 
                        Cleveland
                     and Benjamin Harrison. Is not that one for the "Book"? Mr. Schneider
                    was a tailor by trade, and, for more than forty-five years, had more to do with the life of the
                    community than any other person who ever lived there. At his home on Vistula Street, he had a
                    sun-dial and a bell, and, in all that period of years, Postmaster Schneider never missed ringing
                    that bell at six in the morning and at noon. He rang curfew at eight in the evening and the people
                    set their timepieces accordingly. That old bell is in the City Library at Orland now and highly
                    treasured. The historical facts of this wonderful section of Indiana have been skimmed over lightly,
                    but the community and surrounding country are surely worth visiting.
         
         
         
            The First Official Air Mail
            RICHARD B. WETHERILL, M.D.
            The 
                        United States
                     Air Mail Service is a branch of the Post Office Department in which certain classes of
                    mail are transported and delivered over officially established lines under the supervision of the
                    federal government. These routes at present extend in every direction throughout the 
                        United States
                     and into many foreign countries.
            The first government record of an experiment for an established air mail route was a service from 
                        New York
                     to 
                        Washington
                     on May 15, 1918, which was operated for a short time. Encouraged by the success of this
                    venture, other lines were soon in operation. So rapid wa+s the expansion of this service that it was
                    found advisable to transfer the transportation of air mail to contracts with private operators under
                    government restrictions. This plan has been continued to the present time with the exception of a
                    short period when, by reason of certain irregularities in management and numerous fatalities through
                    accidents, the service was temporarily transferred to the War Department. As this change did not
                    prove satisfactory, the service was returned to operation by private companies.
            At the present time, special air mail is extensively carried by aeroplane, which method will probably
                    be further developed and the bulk of air mail increased in the future. While we should be proud of
                    this wonderful accomplishment, the fact remains that the earliest experiments in aerial navigation
                    were made in a free flying balloon. From this beginning, there followed a gradual evolution
                    extending over a period of one hundred fifty years. First there was the crude paper affair of the
                    Montgolfier Brothers in 1783, followed by the devices of Blanchard and Jeffries who drifted across
                    the English Channel from 
                        Dover
                     to Calais in 1785. The next important advance was made by Charles Green, an Englishman,
                    who, in 1836, made an ascension at 
                        London
                     and landed 500 miles from that city. This venture was eclipsed by Henry Gifford in
                    1878, using a balloon of a capacity of 450,000 cubic feet. Gifford is also said to have invented the
                    first successful dirigible, but the credit for inventing the modern lighter-than-air dirigible must
                    be given to Count von Zeppelin, who, in 1910, completed his first passenger machine.
            
            A most important discovery was made by the Montgolfier family when they found that smoke and hot air
                    could be utilized as a lifting power for balloons. Then followed the discovery of the properties of
                    hydrogen gas by Cavendish in 1766, which, by reason of its greater buoyancy, was more suitable for
                    that purpose. The early cost of manufacturing this gas, however, made its employment prohibitive,
                    and, until a cheaper process of production was discovered, the employment of coal gas or hot air was
                    used. Then hydrogen came into use, but, as it is dangerously inflammable, helium is considered more
                    desirable for lighter than air craft.
            The earliest record of air mail transportation in Europe was at the siege of 
                        Paris
                     in 1871, during; the Franco-Prussian War, when nine tons of dispatches and three
                    million letters were sent out in sixty-four free flying balloons. Fifty-seven of these fell in
                    friendly territory and the mail eventually reached its destination. Gambetta left 
                        Paris
                     by one of these balloons to secure an army of relief.
            Unsatisfactory results with the free flying balloon led to the development, in 1910, of the dirigible
                    of the Zeppelin type. It was a few years before this date (December 17, 1903) that the Wright
                    Brothers, Wilbur and Orville, made the first successful flight from Kittyhawk and their success on
                    this occasion marks the birth of the modern aeroplane. The story of the conquest of the sky has been
                    most dramatic. Though there has been a considerable loss of life and frequently planes have crashed
                    to their destruction, progress has continued and air travel is now a favorite method of
                    transportation.
            The story of how the city of 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana, played a part in the early history of air mail delivery is of much interest.
                    For a number of years John Wise, a professional balloonist of 
                  Lancaster, Pennsylvania
               ,
                    made exhibition flights in various parts of the 
                        United States
                    . He made a study of aviation as it was then practiced here and abroad. It was his
                    experience that there was little danger in a free flying balloon while it was in the air, but that,
                    on making a landing, personal injury frequently resulted from the basket dragging over obstacles on
                    the ground before the complete collapse of the bag. This danger was obviated by the device of the
                    "rip cord," which, by opening a panel of the balloon, resulted  in rapid deflation, and accidents due to the dragging of the basket
                    were reduced to a minimum. As a result of his wide experience, 
                        Wise
                     was led to believe that in the upper air there were currents like the trade winds which
                    constantly blow in the same direction, and he held that in the Middle West these currents in the
                    upper air took a course from West to East. This being the case, he believed that if a balloon could
                    be made capable of a sustained flight, transportation of passengers and light mail would be
                    .possible from the 
                        United States
                     to Europe.
            To test his new theory, 
                        Wise
                     made an ascent from 
                        St. Louis
                     in 1858 with the object of transporting express by air from that city to the Atlantic
                    Coast. This experiment was only a partial success as it was necessary to throw overboard the cargo
                    to prevent the balloon from falling into Lake 
                        Ontario
                    . Although mail on this trial trip ultimately reached its destination, it was not
                    sponsored by the federal post office but was an experiment by a private corporation.
            The following year, Mr. Wise planned an ascension from 
                        Lafayette
                    , and came to that city for the purpose in the summer of 1859. August 16 was set as the
                    date for the flight and a notice appeared in the local papers that letters and other mail would be
                    accepted by the flyer to be carried by his balloon Jupiter for delivery in 
                        New York City
                    .
            On account of a slight accident, the ascension was not made on the appointed day, but took place on
                    the following day. The mail was delivered at 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and eventually reached its Eastern desination. The mail bag contained one hundred
                    twenty-three letters and twenty-three pamphlets. The conspicuous facts in this experiment (which
                    demonstrate that this was an official delivery) are: 
                  Notice in daily papers that all mail intended for this delivery must be plainly marked on
                            the envelope with "By Balloon Jupiter" and must be deposited in the post
                            office on a certain date and postage prepaid at current rates.
                  This mail was received by the postmaster, Thomas Wood, and placed in government mail bags
                            duly sealed.
                  Notice of arrival in 
                                Crawfordsville
                             was given, and delivery to federal postal authorities at that place was made.
                  Arrival in 
                        Lancaster, Pennsylvania
                     , and in 
                                New York City
                             of the mail took place.
               
            
            All statements made in this article are fully authenticated  and
                    the complete records, including letters, clippings from daily papers and photographs are to be found
                    in the archives of the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Historical Association Museum, at the State Library, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and in the Congressional Library, 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. The evidence of the historical value of this first air mail is recognized by the
                    fact that a single letter contained in the delivery has a cover value to collectors of ten thousand
                        dollars.1 On the anniversary of last May, designed to celebrate the
                    establishment of the federal air mail service in the 
                        United States
                    , the Postmaster General permitted a cachet to be employed as a stamp on 
                        Lafayette
                     letters, consisting of a circle which contained a picture of a balloon inscribed with
                    the name Jupiter, and beside it one of an aeroplane. Around the seal was the
                    inscription: "Prof. John Wise carried U.S. mail consisting of 123 letters for N. Y. City,
                    Aug. 17, 1859."
            Publicity was given to this historic event in the daily papers two weeks in advance:
            
                    BALLOON ASCENSION FROM LAFAYETTE
                    Aug. 16, 1859
                    
                  The Balloon ascension—
                    Arrangements were completed yesterday with Prof. 
                            Wise
                         for an ascension on the 16 inst. The voyage will be a transcontinental one, the
                        object being to reach if possible the Atlantic Shore. Mr. Wise will probably be accompanied by a
                        citizen of 
                            Lafayette
                        . The ascension will take place about three o'clock in the afternoon from
                        the Court House Square. The balloon Jupiter, in which the ascension is to be made, arrived
                        yesterday, and will be immediately re-coated and outfitted for a long voyage. It is now at Balls
                        Hall. Arrangements will be made on all the railroads leading to the City for the accommodation
                        of people from abroad who may desire to witness the ascension.
                    The ascension will take place on Tuesday and the 16th of the present month. The almanac makers
                        are unanimously of the opinion that the weather will be favorable on that day and the certainty
                        of moonlight is a propitious circumstance. The balloon will be inflated at the gas works on 
                            Illinois
                         Street [now Fourth]. The large gasometer (fortunately one of the largest in the
                        state) will furnish the requisite quantity of gas. As soon as the inflation is complete, the
                        balloon, properly secured against the contingency of a run away will be conveyed to the public
                        square, where the ascension will take place."
                    
                        The Crowd-
                    
                    It is safe to assume that the crowd in attendance at the ascension may be estimated by thousands
                        and many of our citizens are quite 
                     
                        1 Frank D. Morris, "Stamp Stampede," Collier's Weekly, July 30, 1938.
                  
                         sanguine in the anticipation of as large a crowd as was
                        present at the 4th of July demonstration. We presume that all the railroads will run extra
                        trains at half fare.2
               
                
            In the Daily Courier of the day preceding the scheduled flight this announcement
                    appeared:
            
                    
                  Miltary Parade—
                    The 
                            Lafayette
                         Guards will parade tomorrow afternoon (blue pants and plumes) and will escort Prof. 
                            Wise
                         and his aerial ship "Jupiter" from the gas works to the Public
                        Square. Dr. Fonda requests us to urge upon all members of the company a prompt appearance at the
                        Armory at one o'clock.3
               
                
            In the Courier of the same day, notice was given regarding letters to be carried by
                    Professor Wise: 
                        
                            Express Mail by Balloon Jupiter
                        
                        All persons who wish to send letters to their friends in the East by the balloon to day must
                            deliver them at the post office previous to 12 m., as the Jupiter's mail closes at
                            that hour. The letters must be addressed with the words 'via balloon
                            jupiter' added to the ordinary direction, and prepaid.4
                  
                    
            
            The ascension so widely advertised for Aug. 16, 1859, proved a failure. The inflation took place in a
                    lot adjacent to the gas works and was completed by three o'clock in the afternoon in the
                    presence of the largest crowd ever assembled in 
                        Lafayette
                    . A procession was then formed, headed by the 
                        Lafayette
                     band, and the balloon with Prof. 
                        Wise
                     standing in the basket was towed by guy ropes up 
                        Mississippi
                     Street to the Square. During this parade, telegraph wires impeded progrees, and, in the
                    effort to get over them, the balloon unfortunately got loose and mounted to the sky. As the
                    arrangements for the ascent were still incomplete, Prof. 
                        Wise
                     was compelled to let out the gas and come down. He descended on South Street near the
                    residence of Robert Jones. Upon examination, it was found that the gas valve had been damaged in
                    extricating the balloon from the telegraph wires. After repairing this defect, the local papers
                    announced that a second ascension would take place on the next day, which would be August 17.
            In the Daily Journal of 
                        Lafayette
                    , the following bulletins which had been issued after the ascension were published:
            
               
                  2
                        
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Daib Coltvier. Aug. 2, 1869.
               
                  3
                        Ibid., Aug. 16, 1669.
               
                  4
                        Ibid.
            
            
            
                    
                        Thursday Morning, August 18, 1859
                    
                    Mr. Wise determined that the original program should be carried out, and yesterday announced that
                        a second attempt for the transcontinental trip would be made at two o'clock in the
                        afternoon. The air ship was fully inflated, and all the arrangements for the voyage perfected at
                        the appointed time, and precisely at the hour designated, Prof. 
                            Wise
                         set sail. A large crowd had been attracted to the lot near the gas works [N. W.
                        corner 
                            Illinois
                         and Vine Streets] where the ascension was made, and they greeted the departure of
                        the veteran aeronaut with loud and long continued cheers. The balloon rose very gracefully in
                        nearly perpendicular direction bearing slightly to the south until an altitude of probably a
                        mile and a quarter was reached when it bore to the southwest. It apparently reached a great
                        height; but it remained visible for nearly two hours when it finally disappeared in the dim
                        distance. The professor took with him about 300 pounds of ballast and was prepared for a long
                        voyage. He remarked when starting that he should not be satisfied with a trip of less than a
                        thousand miles in length. He had promised to telegraph us as soon after landing as possible.
                    
                        Later
                    
                    We received a note from J. B. Hooper dated at Convin at 4 p.m. yesterday [August 171 stating that
                        the balloon was in sight at that place about the size of a piece of chalk and moving fast in a
                        southwesterly direction.
                    
                        Still Later
                    
                    A gentleman who left 'High Gap' on the Wea at 5 P. M. yesterday saw the balloon
                        in a southerly direction. It seemed to be about four miles high.
                    
                  The Very Latest—(Landed)
                    We are in receipt of a dispatch from 
                            Crawfordsville
                         stating that Prof. 
                            Wise
                         landed two and a half miles below that place at 6:30 P. M.5
               
                
            The same issue of the Journal carried the following item: 
                        As may be reasonably expected, the hotel and saloon keepers, and the humbler cider and
                            gingerbread venders did a thriving business in appeasing the hunger and quenching the thirst
                            of so many people. The demand for malt and alcoholic drinks was particularly great, though
                            we observed very few who betrayed an immoderate use of those beverages. The general order
                            was excellent. The harmony of the day remained unbroken until its close.6
                  
                    
            
            A photograph of the first ascent was taken at the public square at 
                        Lafayette
                     for the 
                        New York
                    
                    Illustrated Journal, and that paper published the following letter which was among
                    those carried by Mr. Wise on August 17:
            
               
                  5
                        
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Daily Journal, Aug. 18, 1869.
               
                  6
                  Ibid.
            
            
            
                    Saturday, Aug. 27, 1869
                    Mr. Wise in the balloon Jupiter from 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., took with him a special mail bag, which he subsequently dropped from the
                        clouds over 
                            Crawfordsville
                        . The letters were forwarded to their destinations, and among them was the following:
                     
                        
                           "Messrs. Rudd & Corellon, 
                                            New York
                                        
                           
                           Gentlemen: Mr. Wise the Aeronaut rises from here today [
                                            Lafayette
                                        , August 161 and desires to take mail out to 
                                            New York
                                         in his balloon. We take this opportunity to present our respects to
                                        you.
                           
                                        Yours truly,
                                        Johnson & Bro."
                                    
                        
                     
                   Mr. Wise we understand hopes to see the day when mails will be regularly conveyed by
                            balloon.7
               
                
            Mr. Wise hurried to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , after the landing of his balloon, evidently making good train connections. His flight
                    occurred on Wednesday A.M. and he wrote the following letter on Saturday.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lancaster
                                 , Pa.,
                           
                                    Aug. 20, 18698
                           
                                
                        My dear Friend:
                        Tomorrow I hope to send you a copy of my narrative. Till then you will please draw
                                    your own conclusions. I done [sic] full justice to the artesian circulars. I have
                                    still three bottles (artesian water). One I sent to Col. Forney with a note and he
                                    will probably mention it in the Monday press.
                        It was to me a remarkable trip—no ozone in the air, a deficiency I should
                                    think for healthful purposes.
                        I wrote to Joseph Dautzier today to forward me the balloon if he had not sold her.
                                    Several parties are after her at $300. When Mr. D. settled with my son he
                                    had only collected $625 and $25 for our hotel made all told
                                    $650.
                        I reached the upper current at bar of 19 inches but it had exhausted the balloon one
                                    half and this cost me all my sand ballast.
                        
                                    I am sincerely & truly yours,
                                    John Wise.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            This ascension of 1859 has some scientific interest. One of the earliest attempts to study the
                    chemistry of the upper atmosphere was made by Gay Lussac on Sept. 16, 1804. In the year 1840,
                    Schonbein discovered ozone in the atmosphere and studied its properties, and the origin of this
                    allotropic form of oxygen. The subject was of great interest to scientists at that time, so when 
                        Wise
                     made his flight, Dr. Charles M. Wetherill, an eminent chemist of 
                        Lafayette
                    , persuaded 
                        Wise
                     to take with him some papers treated with starch and Potassium Iodide with which to
                        
                  
                     7
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Evening Post, Aug. 27. 1859.
                  
                     8 John Wise to Prof. Chas. M. Wetherill of 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind.
               
                     test the upper air, since by change of color they would show
                    the presence of ozone. It has not been possible to find the report on this experiment, but to the
                    best of the writer's information, the attempt was among the first to study the chemistry of
                    the upper atmosphere by balloon.
            Eighty years have now passed since 
                        Wise
                    's notable achievement in carrying the U. S. mail by his balloon Jupiter. Since then, the aeroplane has proved the most satisfactory means of rapid aerial
                    transportation and the early exploits of Mr. Wise had been forgotten until the Federal Post Office
                    Department published its intention to set aside a certain date to be observed as the anniversary of
                    the first air mail flight, which was undertaken experimentally from 
                        New York
                     to 
                        Washington
                     on May 15, 1918. This project awakened an interest in air mail history and called to
                    mind the early experiments of 
                        Wise
                    , which resulted in the publication of an item in the Sunday Star of 
                        Washington
                    , D. c., the caption of which was: 
                        The First Air Mail was carried by Balloon 75 Years Ago. Uncle Sam's Mail was Flown
                            by Balloon in 1859.9
                  
                    
            
            The first part of this article of 1918 gives an account of the early experiences of 
                        Wise
                     in aeronautics which is followed by the details of his flight from 
                        Lafayette
                     with all the public notices relating thereto. At the conclusion of the article, the
                    following from Mr. Wise appeared: 
                        In looking through the clouds I noticed a town a little to the west of me. By reference to my
                            chart it proved to be 
                                Crawfordsville
                            . Knowing if there were no currents below I could safely and easily land in the
                            town, and in order to make the arrival more interesting, I concluded to send my mail ahead,
                            and to effect this in a systematic form the following expedient was adopted: Having with me
                            a muslin sheet nine feet square, I attached to each of its corners strings of about 5 yards
                            in length. These were tied together at their lower extremities and to this knot was attached
                            the mail bag and thefi I dropped it overboard. The muslin sheet made an admirable parachute.
                            A few minutes informed me that it would drift to a considerable distance to the south of 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , as there was a slight breeze below drifting in that direction. I pulled the
                            valve and Jupiter followed and soon overtook the mail. We kept together all the way down as
                            I could regulate the descent of the balloon to the descent of the parachute, and both of the
                            aerial machines landed within 50 feet of each other in the public road six miles south of 
                                Crawfordsville
                             —their descent being very slow.10
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  9
                        Sunday Star (
                            Washington
                        ), Apr. 6, 1932.
               
                  10
                        Ibid. This statement was made by Mr. Wise shortly after his flight in
                    1869.
            
            
            A few days after the balloon flight of August 17, 1859, the following appeared in a 
                        Lafayette
                     paper: 
                        The balloon mail which left this city on the transcontinental voyage of Prof. 
                                Wise
                             contained 123 letters and 23 circulars.
                        The bag was 'brass locked' and labeled 
                                New York City
                            . At 
                                Crawfordsville
                             it was consigned to the care of Col. Reed, U. S. mail agent on the N. A.
                            & S. Ry. and doubtless has ere this been delivered.11
                  
                    
            
            From 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , as previously mentioned, the mail bag was sent on to 
                        New York
                     and we have news of its progress in the following press notice: 
                        The Balloon Mail
                        The special letter bag expressed by the post master of 
                                Lafayette
                             with proof of 
                                Wise
                            's departure, was dropped from the clouds over 
                                Crawfordsville
                             and passed through here today [
                                Lancaster
                            , Pa., Aug. 191 en route to 
                                New York
                             in good order.12
                  
                    
            
            Following the receipt of photostat copies of press notices and letters sent to the Division of
                    Aeronautics of the Library of Congress, the following acknowledgement was mailed to the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Historical Association: 
                  
                     
                        Library of Congress Division of Aeronautics 
                                        Washington
                                    
                        
                        
                                    July 17, 1935
                                
                        Dear Mrs. Pollock:
                        Some time ago this Division received from you, through the Accessions Division, a
                                    photostat copy of newspaper clippings concerning John Wise's balloon mail
                                    from 
                                        Lafayette
                                    , Ind. We appreciate khe courtesy and take pleasure in sending you a
                                    copy of an article written by a member of the staff of this division in 1932. The
                                    second half of the article describes the balloon mail from 
                                        Lafayette
                                    . The first half deals with a similar venture which was not however
                                    sponsored by the post office.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    A. F. Zohm
                                    Chief, Division of Aeronautics
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            From the authenticated facts here set forth, it appears without any doubt that the honor of
                    inaugurating the first official air mail delivery sponsored by the 
                        United States
                     Post Office must be given to 
                        Lafayette
                    . This airmail delivery was also perhaps the first in the world. It is true 
                  
                     11
                            Daily Cowiw. Aug. 28, 1859.
                  
                     12 Laneaster Press. Aug. 19, 1869.
               
                     that before the flight of the Jupiter,
                    letters had been frequently carried by balloon, even at much earlier date, but their delivery was
                    unofficial, not being sponsored by the federal Post Office Department through its duly accredited
                    agents.
            At some future time some enterprising investigator will search the records with the object of
                    obtaining the early history of the 
                        United States
                     department of the air mail service, and finding the material collected and preserved by
                    the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Historical Society and else-where, will give to 
                        Lafayette
                     the credit she justly deserves.13
            
            
               
                  13 This will mean a recognition of 
                            Lafayette
                         as a pioneer in this field, and, when this comes, the Philatelic Department in 
                            Washington
                         will, in all probability, issue, an airmail stamp commemorating the notable
                        achievement of John Wise in carrying Unittd States mail by balloon from 
                            Lafayette
                         to 
                            Crawfordsville
                        .
            
         
         
         
            The Society of Indiana Pioneers
            MARTHA TUCKER MORRIS
            
            The Society of Indiana Pioneers, organized on September 15, 1916, and incorporated on April 24, 1922,
                    has this motto: "TO honor the memory and the work of the pioneers who opened Indiana to
                    civilization." The requirements for membership in the Society state that men and women may
                    become members of the Society who have one or more lineal ancestors who lived in Indiana in pioneer
                    days—before 1825 in older counties, before later dates in counties organized later1
            
            The symbols on the "pioneer pin" are most interesting. In the upper left-hand
                    corner is the felled tree of the pioneer; in the upper right-hand corner are the axe, the gun, and
                    the powder horn, which the pioneer used for protection and food. In the lower left-hand corner is
                    the fleeing buffalo, which is also a symbol on the state seal. This suggests the danger of the times
                    and the fact that the first roads were traces worn by migrating buffalo. The importance of the
                    pioneer mother is symbolized in the lower right-hand field by the spinning wheel. In the center of
                    the pin is the Indian-head. A fac simile of this pin is found on the front cover
                    of each Year Book of the Society, with the motto of the Society printed below.
                    This emblem was designed by Julia Finch Conner (Mrs. Charles N.) Thompson, who died on December 26,
                    1928.
            The Year Books of the Society are prized by all members and by others interested in
                    the history of the state who possess them. Each year an article on some phase of Indiana history is
                    featured. The article for the Year Book of 1939 was "The Harrison
                    Family," since the Society presented, on May 21–22 of last year, a pageant
                    depicting important events in the lives of Benjamin Harrison, Governor of 
                        Virginia
                    , William Henry Harrison, Governor of Indiana Territory and ninth President of the 
                        United States
                    , and Benjamin Harrison, twenty-third 
                  
                     1 The counties that come under the 1825 limit are: Clark, Crawford, 
                                Daviess
                            , 
                                Dearborn
                            , Dubois. 
                                Fayette
                            , Floyd, 
                                Franklin
                            . Gibson Harrison, Jackson Jefferson, Jenninps, 
                                Knox
                            , Lawrence, Martin, 
                        Monroe, Ohio, Orange
                     . Owen, Perry, 
                                Pike
                            , Posey, 
                                Ripley
                            , Scott, 
                                Spencer
                            , Sullivan, 
                                Switzerland
                            , Union, 
                                Vanderburgh
                            , Vigo. 
                        Warrick, Washington, Wayne
                     . Those that come under the 1830 limit are: Bmtholomew,
                                    
                        Brown, Clay, Decatur, Delaware, Fountain, Greene, Hamilton, Hancock
                     . Hendricks. Hcnry, Johnson.
                                    
                        Madison, Marion, Montgomery
                     , Morgan,
                            Parke, 
                        Putnam, Randolph
                     , Rush. 
                        Shelby, Tippecanoe, Vermillion, Warren
                     . Under the
                            1835 limit are: Allen, 
                                Boone
                            , Carroll. Cass, Clinton, Miami, 
                                St. Joseph
                            . Under the 1840 limit are: Adams Ben-ton, 
                        Blackford, DeKalb, Elkhart, Fulton
                     ,
                            Grant, Howard, 
                        Huntington, Jasper
                     , Jay, Kosciusco, 
                                Lagrange
                            . Lake, Laporte, Marshall. Noble, Poker. Fulaski, 
                                Steuben
                            : Tip: ton. 
                                Wabash
                            , Wells. White, 
                                Whitley
                            . Under the 1850 limit are: Newton, Starke.
               
                     President of the 
                        United States
                    . The pageant, written by Ross F. Lockridge, was presented on the south lawn of the
                    Benjamin Harrison home at 1230 North 
                        Delaware
                     Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The article, illustrated by pictures of the three noted Harrisons and the home in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was written by Caroline Dunn, librarian of the William Henry Smith Memorial Library.
            Accounts of the pilgrimages of the Society are included in the Year Book. These
                    pilgrimages are annual affairs that provide members of the Indiana Historical Society and friends
                    with opportunities to visit points of historic and scenic interest in the state.
            Each Year Book presents complete records of present and past officers, including
                    lists of boards of governors of the Society, a roll of deceased members, and committees appointed
                    for the year. In the membership list, below each name, is given the name of the pioneer from whom
                    the member is descended, with the place and year of the ancestor's birth and the place and
                    date of his settlement in Indiana. Notes in brackets give unusual items of interest regarding the
                    pioneers named.
            The Society of Indiana Pioneers has touched all phases of historical and cultural development of
                    Indiana. It has cooperated with historical and patriotic societies of the state in placing markers
                    and memorials, and in the preservation of relics, documents, and family records relating to Indiana.
                    The Society was one of the promoters of the building of the present State Library and Historical
                    Building to preserve the records of the state. It also cooperated in the promotion of the movement
                    for the restoration and maintenance by the state of the Lanier Home at 
                        Madison
                    . The Society likewise encouraged and assisted the movement for a suitable memorial to
                    the memory of George Rogers Clark, and was represented on the Commission created for that purpose by
                    the Indiana General Assembly.
            In cooperation with the Indiana Historical Society and the Indiana Historical Bureau, the Society of
                    Indiana Pioneers promotes and sponsors the annual Indiana History Conference, which has probably
                    done more than any other activity to develop an interest in Indiana history. The Annual Conference
                    of 1939 (December 8–9) will be the twenty-first. Due to the increasing interest in family
                    history, a  special session at the conference is devoted to
                    Indiana genealogy. This is held in the Genealogy Room of the State Library. The Society of Pioneers,
                    along with the Historical Society and Indiana University, has made possible the publication of the
                    "Indiana Genealogy" section of the Indiana Magazine of History.
            Each year, the closing event of the Indiana Histdry Conference is the Annual Dinner of the Society of
                    Indiana Pioneers. This is a notable social event that brings together a representative group of the
                    descendants of the founders of the state. Many of these descendants are leaders in public,
                    professional, business and social activities of today, as was stated by a former president of the
                    Society, William H. Insley. The Society exerts a real influence on the cultural life of the state.
            To its members, the Society of Indiana Pioneers not only offers the opportunity to honor their
                    pioneer ancestors, but also to pass on to their own descendants the heritage of a record of direct
                    descent from the pioneers and the pleasure of service with others in the preservation of records of
                    early families and the advancement of historical work.2
            
            
               
                  2 Space is gladly given to this brief article because the Society of
                        Indiana Pioneers is not as well known as it should be to many persons who are eligible to
                        membership. We are especially happy to present the dates that relate to eligibility for the
                        several groups of counties, and beg to suggest that most of the counties are listed under dates
                        that seem to be from five to ten years too early. The dates as agreed on by the Society, rule
                        out thousands of men and women who were just as completely pioneers as many who are included. In
                        othcr words, the bona fide pioneer period was certainly longer in most
                        counties than the dates listed indieate.— -Editor.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN, Secretary
            James Truslow Adams in his review of a recent book, Old 
                            Tippecanoe
                        
               , by Freeman Cleaves, in the 
                  
                            New York
                         Times Book Review of November 26 (page 3), gives a text for the December
                    column allotted to the Indiana Historical Society. After expressing surprise at the fact that no
                    satisfactory general biography of William Henry Harrison had been published before Mr.
                    Cleave's excellent work appeared and asserting that Harrison's death after only a
                    few weeks in the office of president of the 
                        United States
                     may account for lack of interest in him and lack of well known biographical material,
                    he continues: "There is, of course the 'political biography' of him
                    written in 1926 by Mrs. Goebel and which is excellent in the phases covered but which was published
                    by a historical society and is largely unheard of by the general reader…. Both historians
                    and the public generally should be grateful to Mr. Cleaves for supplying them with a readily
                    obtainable and scholarly Life."
            The "political biography" written in 1926 by Mrs. Goebel happens to be Volume 14 of
                    the Indiana Historical Collections, published by the Indiana Historical Bureau.
                    While appreciating Mr. Adams' commendation of this work, one is given pause by the opinion
                    expressed that it is to be taken for granted that books published by a historical society are
                    largely unheard of by the general reader and are not readily obtainable. The correctness of Mr.
                    Adams' opinion cannot be truthfully challenged. One is led, however, to reflect upon the
                    reasons for this state of affairs and to search for ways of improving the circulation of material
                    published by historical organizations.
            One reason why historical publications are not more widely advertised than they are has been the
                    deprecation of their quality. Whether this judgment is fair or not is an open question. One is
                    inclined to think that it is largely due to the fact that historical society writings, in so far as
                    they reach readers, find a more critical reception than the books issued by commercial publishers
                    with a highly favorable "blurb" accompanying them. Leading members of societies
                    are often the most critical of the activities of their organizations. Such was Worthington C. Ford
                    in the paper which  he read at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     meeting of the Conference of Historical Societies in 1928, "Historical
                    Societies—Living and Dead," printed in the 
                  
                            Mississippi
                         Valley Historical Review for December, 1929, and reprinted in a separate by
                    the Conference. His helpful diagnosis might easily be mistaken for condemnation in such sentences as
                    this, "At least one-half of what is printed by societies could better be left in
                    manuscript." It was not a condemnation, but rather a self-searching appeal for improvement.
                    Historical societies do actually discourage the publication of much material that is not worth
                    publication; that they do publish much that need not be put into print is true, but this is probably
                    no more true of them than of most publishing agencies. The demand for their publications is probably
                    as strong, relatively, as that for doctoral dissertations and privately printed books.
            The relatively small circulation of historical society publications is inherent in the very theory of
                    the activity of such an organization. Books which make a general appeal and have the promise of
                    sales which justify advertisement and the use of sales organizations ought to be published by
                    commercial publishers. Historical societies generally limit their publications to works which are
                    thought to be worth while, but do not hold the promise of such extensive sales as would give a
                    commercial publisher returns necessary for a profitable business. This is only another way of
                    restating Mr. Adams' inference as a generality.
            The only problem involved is that which arises when a historical society publication, which perhaps
                    has been or would be refused by a commercial publisher, meets a general demand. Since the society
                    has no paid advertising expert and no sales organization, the distribution of such a book is apt to
                    be as limited as that of more technical or less interesting publications. All of them are probably
                    noticed in the book trade journals, but few of them are given the publicity which commercial
                    publishers secure by glowing reviews in magazines and in literary supplements of newspapers; nor are
                    they displayed in bookstores—indeed, the decline of bookstores themselves in the last
                    thirty or forty years is one of the causes both for the swollen tide of "best
                    sellers" and the relatively small circulation of scholarly and scientific works.
            What can be done about it? In the first place, members of historical societies ought to serve as
                    advertising agents  for meritorious publications of their
                    organizations. The membership of such societies should be much larger than it is and their
                    activities should be made known by word of mouth, as well as by the efforts, often ineffective, of
                    the officers of the society to secure alluring printed notices. In the second place, concerted
                    effort ought to be made to secure fair recognition in popular magazines and in newspapers for
                    publications which deserve it, whether issued by friendly commercial publishers and advertisers or
                    by publishers in organizations outside the charm circle. Then the public also should be better
                    educated than it is in discriminating between worth-while publications and worthless ones. This must
                    necessarily be the work of schools and colleges. It is a practical goal that educators might well
                    set themselves to train their students in powers of discrimination and in methods of securing for
                    themselves objects of enduring value, rather than in taking what is thrust upon them by high-powered
                    salesmanship.
            It may be observed also that people interested in historical reading ought to subscribe to historical
                    magazines and read them. They are for the most part sent to members of the historical societies
                    which publish them and may be obtained by membership in those societies—a membership
                    which is open to all respectable citizens. Those who have read the Indiana Magazine of
                        History would certainly know about Mrs. Goebel's William Henry
                        Harrison.
            In addition to this work, a few of the recent "best sellers" published by the
                    Historical Bureau might be cited: Solon Robinson, Pioneer and Agriculturist,
                    Selected Writings, edited by H. A. Kellar, 2 volumes $4.00
            
               Moravian Indian Mission on White River
               , edited by Lawrence H.
                    Gipson, $2.00
            Among recent publications of the Indiana Historical Society, for which the demand has been greatest,
                    are:
            
               The Village at the End of the Road, A Chapter in Early Indiana Railroad History, by
                    Wylie J. Daniels, 75 cents Sons of the Wilderness, John and William Conner, by
                    Charles N. Thompson, clothbound $200, paper-covered $1.50 Prehistoric Antiquities of Indiana, by Eli Lilly, $10.00
         
         
         
            History Teachers' Forum: TRIED AND TRUE GOALS
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
            There was at one time, in another state, a graduate student from a country of the Far East, who
                    enrolled in my course in American party history. At the end of the session, he did not seem to know
                    much about the leaders in our party history. Neither did he know much about the parties that have
                    developed and played their parts in the government of our country. Near the close of the summer, he
                    informed me that he knew little more at the beginning of the course than the names of
                            
                  Washington, Hamilton
                and Jefferson. He was telling me the literal truth, and I was
                    forced to conclude, that, measured by the distance he had traveled from the day he entered my class,
                    he had done about as well as any other student. I will hazard the guess, too, that he has since
                    added much to his knowledge of American history, the institutions of the country, and the place of
                    parties in the scheme of democratic government in the modern world. What Sugiyami was able to do in
                    the summer of 1927, with almost no foundation whatever to build on, furnishes a subject for
                    reflection.
            Every teacher of history knows how imperfect the knowledge and understanding of a period can be for
                    many high school and college students after they have labored through a course. Students frequently
                    declare that they know little in a short time after completing almost any course, and they are
                    usually ready to add that they will soon know less. Many throw up their hands and ask,
                    "What's the use?" Keen and flippant critics alike encourage students to
                    regard lightly the value of courses they have taken. To some, education means nothing unless it
                    results in jobs, and no one can say that jobs are not important after living through the hectic
                    years since 1929. By others, education is heavily discounted because knowledge acquired is so
                    rapidly lost by most of those who have been granted high school or college diplomas, or both.
                    Certainly no one will argue that the high mortality rate on facts and ideas supposedly lodged in the
                    minds of students is not appalling. There is much more, of course, that comes to the public from
                    critics of education as now administered and acquired, the burden of  which is that it is through the multitude of extra-curricular
                    activities that students, turned out as graduates, are mainly equipped for life, while most of such
                    equipment is bad or at best worthless.
            On the whole, teachers do not receive much encouragement from the evaluation of their work, and those
                    who ponder all the questions that are raised about the effectiveness of their efforts often fell
                    like accepting as a verdict—"Weighed in the balance and found wanting."
                    I only wish to add that I do not think it is so bad as all that. If, in the midst of all the
                    complications and distractions that hamper the task of teaching, including most of the devices
                    offered to help and which are too frantically seized and applied, teachers can hold faithfully to
                    certain simple, fundamental and well-established principles, there is still some hope. The teacher
                    who believes that it is important to show his students the true value of acquiring knowledge and
                    acquiring it accurately, before expressing convictions or deciding on courses of action, cannot
                    fail. This will make for straight thinking—something that the world has always needed,
                    and which is now needed as never before, it seems. Then, too, there is a saving thought in this,
                    that no high school or college course should be considered as more than a beginning. It gives the
                    students something on which to build and points of departure from which to go forward. The teacher
                    who encourages straight thinking and starts his students on periods of growth that will last through
                    life is a success.
         
         
         
            Documents
            REMOVAL OF INDIANS FROM OHIO
            DUNIHUE CORRESPONDENCE OF 1832
            The original copies of letters printed below are in the possession of Dr. Graham Dunihue, Podiatrist
                    of Eloomington, Indiana, who kindly permitted the manuscripts to be copied and published. Alexander
                    H. Dunihue and his brother, Daniel R. Dunihue, came to 
                        Bedford
                    , Indiana, to live. Alexander H., who was the grandfather of Dr. Graham Dunihue, was
                    born in Marietta, 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1809. He married Ann McLane, daughter of Col. William McLane of 
                        Bedford
                    , Indiana, in 1836. The McLane family had moved to 
                        Bedford
                     in 1827 from Orleans. In 1834, Colonel McLane and Alexander H. Dunihue became partners
                    in business. The junior member of the firm continued the business for many years after Colonel
                    McLane went to 
                        Texas
                    , where he died in 1873. During the later years of Alexander H. Dunihue's life,
                    the firm operated under the name of Dunihue & Sons. A. H. Dunihue died in 1891. During his
                    business career, he is said to have made fourteen trips to 
                        New Orleans
                    , ten of them being by flatboat.
            Daniel R. Dunihue, brother of Alexander H. Dunihue, was a citizen of 
                        Bedford
                     for many years. The brothers were closely associated. Richard W. Thompson, native of 
                        Virginia
                    , lived at 
                        Bedford
                     for several years before he took up his residence at 
                        Terre Haute
                    . He married Harriet E. Gardiner, daughter of Col. James B. Gardiner and cousin of
                    Alexander H. and Daniel R. Dunihue. Colonel Gardiner's wife was a sister of Abigail Pool
                    Dunihue, wife of Daniel Dunihue, father of Alexander H. and Daniel R. Dunihue.
            Daniel Dunihue, the father of Alexander H. and Daniel R., was born in 
                        Vermont
                     in 1769. He died in 1850 at 
                        Bedford
                    , Indiana. A son of the Green Mountains, Daniel spent his young manhood as a trader
                    making frequent expeditions to lower 
                        Canada
                    . On one of his trips, he was impressed into service and compelled to serve in the
                    British Army for about two years. Upon his return to 
                        Vermont
                    , he migrated to Marietta, 
                        Ohio
                    , where he married Abigail Pool. They reared a family of eight children, Alexander being
                    the oldest. The father of Daniel and grandfather of Alexander H. and Daniel R. Dunihue, was Daniel
                    O. Donoghue, a native of northern 
                    
                        Ireland
                     and a Protestant. He migrated to the New 
                        England
                     frontier where the name was changed to Dunihue.
            The letters to and from members of the Dunihue family, deal with a variety of subjects such as
                    frontier trade, removal of Indians from 
                        Ohio
                    , internal improvements, banking, etc. The group of letters here presented relate mainly
                    to the removal of Indians from 
                        Ohio
                     in 1832. A second installment of the letters will be published in one of the issues of
                    1940.
            [The Letters]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              "Wigwam", Near 
                                    Lebanon
                                    Ohio
                                 
                                 1
                              
                           
                                    27th March, 1833.
                                
                        My Dear Cousin,
                        Your very welcome and highly interesting, letter of the 11th inst. has just been
                                    received and it is with the most animated feelings of gratitude, that I hasten to
                                    reply to it. Your generous magnanimity in thus kindly excusing my negligence,
                                    deserves every acknowledgement; and if I fondly hope, duly appreciated.
                        Most sincerely do I sympathize in your afflictions, and earnestly hope that your
                                    contemplated visit to the "Sunny South", may entirely relieve you.
                        Your beautifully affectionate description of your Brother and Sister bear evidences
                                    of a most warm and amiable heart, and present a picture of home-bred affection, to
                                    seldom evidence by the young men of the present
                                    day.
                        I am quite delighted at having found a cousin poet, for though but "an
                                    humble worshiper at the Muse's lighted shrine", I have a
                                    passionate love for poetry, however little claim it may have to that appellation.
                                    There is a charm a spell, a something talismanic, in the jugling together of
                                    beautiful words, when fraught with sweet sentiment, into beautiful (if I may use the
                                    term) sounds, which never fails to win me from my self, once this dull dozy, prosy
                                    sorry day sort of a world and carry me on "fancy's
                                    pinions", "Far beyond the bounds of visible and vulgar
                                    things." To use the exquisitely beautiful words of Bulwar, what is more
                                    delightful than to "Soar on the wild wings! of thought
                                    above the "smoke and stir" of this dim
                                    earth".—"What a glad awakening from
                                    self,—what a sparkling and fresh draught from a new source of
                                    being." And what is so capable of inspiring these feelings as poetry? They are poetry in their primitive
                                    state;—but when embodied in poetic words, they are more. But I forget that I am talking to Alexander—not Daniel.2 I will not, however, leave the subject until I insist upon the
                                    fulfilment of your promise 
                              
                                 1 The home of Col. James B. Gardiner, called the
                                            "Wigwam". was a short distance from 
                                    Lebanon, Ohio
                                 , county seat of 
                                                Warren County
                                            . 
                                                Lebanon
                                             is about twenty-five miles south of 
                                                Dayton
                                            . This letter by Harriet E. Gardiner merely introduces the
                                            subject of the Indians, but it is worthy of inclusion for what it reveals of
                                            a cultured young woman of 
                                                Ohio
                                             in 1832. Four years later, the writer became the wife of
                                            Richard W. Thompson.
                              
                                 2 Daniel R. Dunihue. The letter was addressed to
                                            Alexander H. Dunihue. Esq., 
                                                Bedford
                                            . Ind. Alexander was twenty-three years of age in 1832, and
                                            Daniel about twenty-one.
                           
                                     of sending some specimens of Cousin Daniels
                                    muse. Even tho' they are surreptitiously gotten, they will not be unacceptable.
                        We have heard frequently from Father since his arrival at 
                                        Washington
                                    . His prospects were extremely favourable, once his treaties (with the 
                                        Ohio
                                     Indians) generally popular; and will he thinks, all be ratified by the
                                    Senate. The only objection made to them, was, that he did not give the Indians enough. No blame, however, was attached to him; and the defect
                                    will be remedied by granting them a small annuity annually.
                        We are all much rejoiced with the promise of you and Aunt visiting us next Summer;
                                    and if you will not disappoint us. I wish Cousin Mary3 could
                                    accompany you, and remain with us some time. Although our residence is in the
                                    country we have all the advantages of Towns, and the society of the neighbourhood is
                                    excellent. If she is fond of reading we have a very good library which contains most
                                    of the standard works, and many of the late ones. In the Indian department we have
                                    every thing relative to the "sons of the forest", that Father has
                                    been able to procure: from Long's first Expi-dition down to "Caleb
                                    Atwater's ("
                                        Ohio
                                    's cherished Antiquary,") Tour". A Variety of
                                    Novels, poems, &c. And newspapers in "quantum
                                        suficit." From Duff Green's "Tel-th-graph, down to Mrs. Royal's delectable hebdomadal, "Paul Pry." By
                                    the way Coz, are you a politician? If so on which side of the fence have you
                                    alighted? On the right side [I hope]. Cousin Daniel is Jacksonian I'm sure;
                        for [he by report ought] to be a Republican. Although not a Mrs—4 (or
                                    rather, under the "malign influence"), a Mrs. Barney, a Mrs.
                                    Royal, or even a "
                                        Van
                                     Burenite: I take a warm and anxious interest in my Country, and every
                                    thing relative to its advancement; and I hold it to be the prerogative, if not the duty, of every American female, to
                                    acquire such knowledge of the government of her country, as is in her power. But of
                                    this another time.
                        You request a Biographical description of our family—the proximity of this
                                    hasty scrawl, to the end of my sheet, will be a sufficient apology, for my non
                                    compliance. I will however, write again, immediately upon the reception of an answer
                                    to this; and endeavour to comply with your request. Sister Lucy bids me
                                    say—she would be delighted to receive an epistle from Daniel, and will
                                    answer it with the greatest pleasure. We all desire to be kindly and affectionately
                                    remembered to Uncle, Aunt, and all our cousins. I will keep this unsealed
                                    'till to-morrow, as we expect letters from Father tonight, and I may have
                                    something to communicate.
                        Tuesday Morning, 28th. The expected packets from 
                                        Washington
                                     arrived last evening. One was a closely written letter of three sheets
                                    to me giving me a complete summary of "affairs at 
                                        Washington
                                    "—description of the Levee of the
                                    President, &.—I regret that my limits will not permit me to give
                                    you an epitome of their contents, as I 
                              
                                 3 Mary was a sister of Alexander H. and Daniel R.
                                            Dunihue. Their mother was a sister of Mrs. Gardiner, mother of Harriet E.
                                            Gardiner.
                              
                                 4 The name was effaced by the wax when the letter was
                                            sealed. No envelopes were used in this early period. Letters were simply
                                            folded in a convenient form with a blank page outside and sealed.
                           
                                     know they would interest you. His treaties have
                                    not been brought forward yet, but he says, there is no doubt of their passing unanimously.5 I hope to hear from you before
                                    and frequently afteH your departure to 
                                        New Orleans
                                    .
                        
                                    Your, aff—
                                    Coz Harriet E. Gardiner.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Wigwam, near Bellefontaine, O.
                           
                                    July 20th, 19326
                           
                                
                        Dear Brother,
                        Uncle7 & myself arrived here on tuesday last
                                    together—he having overtaken me at 
                                        Urbana
                                     monday evening. Since our arrival we have not been much engaged,
                                    Gardiners has, however, conversed every day with Some of the Indians upon the
                                    Subject of emigrating—they Say positively
                                        and without an exception, that they will not go by water and if their father,
                                        the Secretam of War, will not take them by land, they will go alone and shift
                                        for themselves. Thus you see, in some measure, the state of things here
                                    relative to that head. The Shawnees of Sandusky, arrived here the day before
                                    yesterday, and Gen McElvain yesterday, for the purpose of engaging with uncle James
                                    in the settlement of their dispute, which will occupy them but a few days; if they
                                    were allowed a Secretary, I should be that person but such an officer in this affair
                                    is not allowed pay!! poor, poor, poor Cass.
                        The Indians of Lewistown, as they are called, reside in the north-western part of
                                    this Co. from three to nine miles from here, but we have seen more or less every day
                                    since we have beeen at the old Col's—they come
                                    to trade in his Store—often he has a houseful. We are
                                    more comfortably situated here than I could possibly have anticipated—one
                                    room well furnished with beds, tables &c. is exclusively appropriated to our
                                    use, besides as much of the others as we wish. One peculiarity which is not uncommon
                                    in the country, struck me very forcibly, and immediately brought to mind the
                                    anecdote of H. H. Moore, which you doubtless, very distinctly remember: the various
                                    apartments (not excepting our's), were decorated, if I may use the
                                    expression, with numerous, if not innumerable, petticoats!! I one
                                    day had the curiosity to endeavour to count what hung up in the three rooms which
                                    were most immediately under my observation, after getting to fifty
                                    I quit it as a "bad job"; in another one I
                                    noticed that the ceiling was literally lined with the same kind of
                                    "crateurs" as the Irish say.—Z have not
                                        yet got through with petticoats —about three fourths of what I
                                    saw were manufactured (that is, I 
                              
                                            
                                    5 Col. James B. Gardiner negotiated the treaty with
                                                the 
                                                    Ohio
                                                 Indians under which they were removed in 1832. The
                                                following note was written on the margin of tly third page of the
                                                letter:
                                            Father says his prosperts are favourahle to going to Indiana, but he
                                                prefers another appointment. The City, he says, is crowded to
                                                overflowing, with political beggars to every department their are
                                                hundreds of applicants for office. His neRotiations with the Inds.
                                                [Indians] had made him extremely popular with the President, who says Father may be, and shall be continued in the business."
                                        
                              
                                 6 This letter was written to Alexander H. Dunihue. 
                                                Bedford
                                            , Indiana, by his brother, Daniel R. Dunihue. The
                                            "Wigwam" here mentioned was the home of Colonel James
                                            McPherson. Bellcfontaine, the county seat of Logan County, is about
                                            fifty-five miles north of 
                                                Dayton
                                            .
                              
                                 7 Col. James B. Gardiner.
                              
                                 8
                                            Idem.
                           
                                     judged so from the stuff) under the roof of
                                    this same good old house; which if in number, it does not prove the "economy" of the house, as Genl. Jackson or Gov. Cass,
                                    would say, it will at least prove the industry of its occupants. I
                                    have now got through the whole of the petticoats.
                        Last evening I had the pleasure of reading the reasons why Gen.
                                    Jackson placed his "Veto" upon the Bank bill, and believe them to
                                    be cogent and good and if I do not see something in defence, or rather in support
                                    of, the other side, I believe I shall be firmly convinced of the soundness of the
                                    reasoning which dictated that decision. I however pray that the Lord may more fully
                                    develop the banking system to the apparently benighted eyes of
                                    this great but conflicting people; and show them in the most
                                    palpable light the various bearings which the veto will have upon it.
                        Uncle is awaiting, with some little degree of impatience, the arrival of [word from] 
                                        Clay
                                    , and the further instructions from the War Department for himself.
                        I should here say something of our host, Col. Jas.
                                    McPherson—he is an elderly man of good [sense] Some wit, great influence
                                    among the Indians, and in conclusion, of good round dimensions, as
                                    well in person as otherwise—Our hostess is
                                        also a good clever old fellow; and indeed, I will not except a single
                                    individual of the family —they all please me well—We have good
                                    cheer, good fare, and excellent buttemilk—very body and
                                    thing here is neat lively and industrious—myself of course excepted.
                        
                                    Very truly your affectionate brother
                                    
                              D. R. Dunihue.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Bedford
                                 ,
                           
                                    July 23rd. 1832.9
                           
                                
                        Dear Aleck
                        
                        Upon repairing a few days ago to the Post office and finding a letter) from you dated 
                                        Lebanon
                                        Ohio
                                    —I was a little surprised as I expected you were on your way
                                    back to 
                                        Bedford
                                    —But upon reflecting that you were probably doing better than
                                    you might be enabled to do here, I was glad you had gone on—though, at
                                    the same time regretted the loss which we have sustained in the departure of Dan and
                                    yourself at the same time—However the righteous guardian of our
                                    destinies, may direct us for the better—and under these considerations it
                                    becomes us to act like men, and firmly stem the torrent of this worlds
                                    woes—Our spirits should not droop at the sublime prospect of
                                    success—No—we should buckle on the armour of firmness and
                                    determination and if we fail in the attempt to storm the battery of opposition, its
                                    shattered fragments will remain the trophies of our glory, as broken helmets tell of
                                    some valiant arm laid low.
                        In some of your letters to 
                                        Bedford
                                     you suggest that you may not succeed according to your anticipations,
                                    when you left us—I hope those suggestions are unfounded and that you will
                                    be enabled so 
                              
                                 9 This letter was addressed to Alexander H. Dunihue,
                                                    
                                    Lebanon, Ohio
                                 . Alexander had gone to the home
                                            of Colonel Gardiner in the hope, that, like his brother, he would find
                                            employment while his uncle superintended the removal of the Indians. He did
                                            not go to Bellefontaine. hut remained for a time at the Wigwam near 
                                                Lebanon
                                            . He did not get a job, and returned to 
                                                Bedford
                                            . Indiana.
                           
                                     long as you remain in your present employment,
                                    to realise so much as will enable you to meet any wish you may entertain—
                                    I trust your appointment has been already confirmed and that your wages are
                                    progressing.
                        There has transpired nothing since you left us calculated in the slightest degree, to
                                    enlist your sympathies or feelings—except perhaps a little accident which
                                    Moberly has related in his letter of today. 
                                        Bedford
                                     is the same dull, tedious, monotonous, and tiresome place, that it used
                                    to be, when we so heartily joined in imprecations against it—But I am
                                    here, and likely to stay—I have engaged with Mc [Lane] and should like to
                                    have your company—Owens has quit and is living with Vaughn and Miller,
                                    and as I am alone your company would be highly acceptable—The Casket
                                    about which we were speaking before you left us, has not arrived to Ballard
                                    yet,—one or two numbers of Thorntons have been rec'd here
                                    since—I wish you would write to Atkinson upon the subject—and
                                    if you will not return shortly, perhaps you had better have me appointed agent in
                                    your absence—nothing new—and I must therefore
                                    conclude—Your friends are all well—and desire to be remembered
                                    to you—write me often—
                        
                                    Yr. friend sincerely and respectfully
                                    Rich W. Thompson
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Bedford
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 23. 1832.10
                           
                                
                        Dr. [Dear] Alexander
                        Your Letters of 5 & 9. Inst has been duly Recd. they Express Some doubts and
                                    uncertainty of your Success of Getting im-ployment for any
                                    length of Time at all Events I think that you may doe better in the imployment of
                                    Government For the time than at any other business. The prospect is verry Gloomy
                                    here Corn crops will be verry Short in Consequence of the Drought which has been
                                    verry alarming we had a fine Rain yesterday which has cleared the desponding a
                                    Little. money has all-most disappeared in this County and there is no hopes of its
                                    returning Soon as we will have but little for market. under all these circumstances
                                    I think you will probably doe best to continue in the Goverment imploy So long as
                                    they may hold the purse Open before you when your Services is no longer required by
                                    the Goverment or you Should think best to withdraw from its Service I will be happy
                                    to See ou in 
                                        Bedford
                                     agayin as I doe not ecpect to form any Connection in business until I
                                    Get my old business Setled up which will require Some Time. Owens is Gone he broke
                                    of[f] in a moment he is now with Vaugh & Millar. R W Thompson is with me
                                    until the Seminary is up. If you Should return to this place after your present
                                    Engagement Expires I may yet Give you an interest in business,—at all
                                    events you have my sinsear wish for your Prosperity and happiness through Life and a
                                    Safe and 
                              
                                 10 This letter from Col. William McLane of 
                                                Bedford
                                             was likewise written to Alexander while he was in 
                                                Ohio
                                            . In 1836, Dunihue married McLane's daughter, Ann
                                            McLane. He had become a business partner of McLane in 1834.
                           
                                     Speedy Journey to the land of elizeum after
                                    your Joys and Sorrows, Ends here—in hopes of Soon hearing from you again
                        
                                    Iam verry Respectfully
                                    Your obdt. Humble
                                    Sevt, Wm. McLane
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              At Col. McPherson's,11
                              
                           
                                    July 26th. 1832.
                                
                        Dr. Nephew,
                        Lieut. Lane and Wm 
                                        Van
                                     Horne arrived here last evening, just at sunset. 
                                        Van
                                     Horne, on seeing a letter from his father to me, determined on setting
                                    out for Piqua this morning after breakfast, which he did, He told
                                    me he had not solicited any situation from Lane; but this I do not
                                        believe, as just as he was starting, he told Lane, on taking leave, he
                                    should "like very much to go with him," and Lane replied,
                                    "O yes, we shall see each other a good deal this summer." In plain
                                    English, I suspect Billy for a little meanness, if not slander and
                                        treachery. One thing is certain, some one
                                    has been poisoning the mind of Lane against me, by some slander, or by making him
                                    believe I wanted to govern him in his appointments. He had a long conversation with
                                    Vance yesterday, and he and 
                                        Van
                                     Horne called at Vance's house, two miles this side of 
                                        Urbana
                                    . 
                                        Van
                                     Horne's horse was lame, and he got another horse from Vance. Z
                                    find Lane feels his importance wonderfully, and is vain, proud,
                                    self-sufficient, and insufficiently dandified. At 
                                        Washington
                                     he was humble, and in the posture of a supplicant. He asked many favours of me, to get him an
                                    office. I barely hinted to him to-day, in riding out to the Reservation, that
                                    you and 
                                        Van
                                     Horne would both like to go with us, and were capable, &c. He
                                    said nothing then—but sometime afterwards, observed
                                    that he intended to "manage his affairs altogether according to his own judgment, without advice from any one." In
                                    speaking of his Secretary, he said he had "one in his eye." In
                                    talking of commissa;ies, he said he had "two or three in his eye."
                                    I begin to despise this little kind of meanness and want of candor; and I anticipate
                                    no cordiality or satisfaction in the association of Lieut. Lane. I
                                    shall keep him in his own place, and will not openly break with him, if I can well avoid it. I do not want you to come up
                                    here, until you hear from me by next mail. I shall not ask for any
                                    thing for you. It may be that Lane means you, among those he has "got in
                                    his eye"; but I think one is 
                                        Van
                                     Horne, and the others are some dandy fops in 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    .
                        I am glad Guy12 has got to our house, and I am no less glad he
                                    has brought his motherless little daughter to live under our roof. Tell him not to
                                    come here, now, but to make himself as contented and happy as he can, until I hear
                                    about the confirmation of his appointment.
                        
                           
                              11 Colonel Gardiner was at the home of Colonel McPherson,
                                        near Bellefontaine, when he wrote this letter to Alexander Dunihue, who was
                                        still at 
                                            Lebanon
                                        . 
                                            Ohio
                                        . The latter returned to 
                                            Bedford
                                         soon after this date.
                           
                              12 Guy W. Poole, a brother of Mrs. Gardiner and Mrs.
                                        Dunihue (mother of Alexander H. and Daniel R. Dunihue).
                        
                        
                        You need not be any ways uneasy about yourself. I "know a thing
                                        or two"; and none of these Indians are going by
                                    water, take my word for that.
                        Daniel is as contented and comfortable as he can be; and Col. McPherson is much
                                    pleased with him. No danger of him. We all went out to the Reservation to-day. and
                                    neld a little council. The Chiefs are as firm as rocks against
                                    going by water.
                        Tell Wiles I will do what I can for him, decently—that I
                                    mentioned his name to Lane; but got nothing like an answer.
                        I desyr to be home by the 8th of August, if not before, to let Sloane take my
                                    deposition. Tell Judge Kesling not to send any of my letters here after the 4th of August.
                        One or the other of us will write regularly twice a week. I must now scribble a few
                                    lines to Cokely.
                        
                                    Your affectionate Uncle,
                                    J. B. Gardiner.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Pleasant Plains, Logan Co. O.
                           
                                    July 26th 1832.13
                           
                                
                        Dear Brother,
                        When I wrote you last I was in a great hurry and had scarcely time enough to put into
                                    the crowded sheet, and lengthy epistle, more
                                    than one half of the ideas which I had previously intended; now
                                    the whole family are "stowed" snugly in their nightly
                                        lairs, and I have naught to interrupt me save the barking of dogs and the
                                    occasional bite of a stragling musketo. I shall endeavour to write something which interests you and myself.
                        Today Col. McPherson, Col. Gardiner, Lieut. Lane & Dan. Dun.14 rode from this place to the [house of the chief of] the Indian Reservation,
                                    probably five miles from here (the I. Res. is within a much shorter distance) and
                                    while at the house of the principal Chief of the Nation, we understood from him and
                                    some of the Warriors who had assembled there, that they had fully
                                        determined not to go by water, which, I think will entirely "knock
                                    your hopes in the head"—and for this reason, all the officers
                                    which the W. Dept. has allowed the Supt. to have, are
                                        engaged,' and not a vacancy now
                                        remains.—(Guy's15 only excepted,
                                    which he is doubtless ready and waiting for its confirmation to accept.)
                        If there was any other situation within the reach of uncle's16 popularity, which it would be agreeable for you to have, he would
                                    doubtless procure it for you; but I see none—and if there is such a place he has kept it in the dark (from me.) But I have some reason
                                    to think, that, if McLane's letter to you from 
                                        Bedford
                                    , bears a favourable import, you would do well to engage with him, and
                                    forsake the "long cherished land of your nativity,"17 for the more wild, but not less subtancial one of
                                    your "last home." The situation which I occupy should
                                        rightfully belong to you, not only as I may say, from seniority
                                    
                              
                                 13 Daniel R. Dunihue to his brother Alexander.
                                            Pleasant Plains wae a village a few miles west of Bellefontaine in the same
                                            county.
                              
                                 14 Dnniel R. Dunihw, writer of the letter.
                              
                                 15 Guy W. Poole, uncle of the writer.
                              
                                 16 Colonel Gardiner.
                              
                                 17 Alexander was born at Marietta. 
                                                Ohio
                                            .
                           
                                    
                                    of preference, but from preference of senority;
                                    for I have, from circumstances, which are, however, well known to yourself, been an
                                        "interloper," and I think that Uncle likes you better than he does me, and has more
                                    confidence in your ability to do the business of Asst. Conductor than he has in
                                    mine—. The favour will not be forgotten, if it cannot be
                                    reciprocated—it is now past remedy, to change situations, stations or
                                    offices. All we have to do is to hope for the best.
                        I fear, Alexander, that after all his solicitations & warm expressions of
                                    friendship, J. B. G.18 may consider you too
                                    importunate—and me unworthy, but if so, it is his own
                                    fault; we have done no more than others would have—we have conducted
                                    ourselves in an honourable and decorous manner as far as I know—if either
                                    you or myself have shown the least disposition to act as became any but upright and
                                    undisguised men I am yet unaware of it. But yet sir, depend upon it, although he may
                                    say he has "something in his eye" for you—I do not, and
                                    would advise you, in the sincerity of my heart, not to place confidence in such an
                                    unpromising and unlikely assurance!
                        If 'any letters arrive at 
                                        Lebanon
                                    , in a few days for me, I would thank you to forward them.
                        If I have time in the morning I shall probably write to Lucy.
                        Tell Guy19 to write to me; & please present my kind
                                    remembrances to him.
                        I do not yet know whether I shall go with Uncle to 
                                        Lebanon
                                    , before starting on our emigrating journey, or not.
                        It will most likely be a month before we can get prepared properly for commencing the
                                    route.
                        I am glad it is in my power to say that I believe Col. McPherson has
                                        conceived a good opinion of me—he is a worthy man, and I am
                                    perfectly well satisfied that I belong to his detachment.
                        Write me soon and tell me how they are at Father's.
                        
                                    Your affectionate brother
                                    Daniel R. Dunihue.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Bellefontaine, 
                                    Ohio
                                 
                              
                           
                                    August 22. 1832.
                                
                        Dear brother,
                        Agreably to a wish expressed in your last letter, I now proceed to write, with as
                                    little delay as possible, to you.
                        Your Uncle Guy arrived here last Monday, & you may be assured that I was
                                    heartily glad to see him. One whom I have always been taught to esteem as worthy and
                                    honorable was welcomed with the most sincere pleasure. His appearance and manner are
                                    not entirely such as I had anticipated, but the former is not uninteresting; and I
                                    suppose the latter will be much better liked (if it is possible) upon a further
                                    acquaintance.—his conversation is pleasing and his mind appears well
                                    stocked with intelligence and useful acquirements. I am much pleased that he will
                                    accompany us—It would be much better if 
                              
                                 18 Colonel Gardiner.
                              
                                 19 The uncle, Guy W. Poole, was still staying at
                                            Colonel Gardiner's home. the Wigwam, near 
                                                Lebanon
                                            . 
                                                Ohio
                                            .
                           
                                     it were in your power also to go; but it
                                    appears that that is out of the question.
                        By the last mail I wrote to Uncle James20 a letter containing two
                                    closely written sheets of fools-cap; one, of minutia about the
                                    affairs of the Lewistown, Wapaghkonetta,21 and Ottowa
                                    Indians,—reports from them,—issuing rations, vaccinating
                                    &c. and the other upon the subject of gentlemen's
                                        characters—a delicate thing you know—but I talked of
                                    the persons in as delicate a manner as I thought consistent with my situation, good
                                    manners and duty to J. B. &c. &cand myself.
                        The Col. (our uncle)22 has not yet received the expected and
                                    anxiously wished for communication from the Presdt. or Secty. of War.
                        We have no idea yet how long it will be before we are enabled to commence on our
                                    journey. There was a letter from the merchant at Sandusky City to whom the Rifles,
                                    Sheeting, and blankets were consigned, directed to Gardiner,23
                                    Stating that those articles had been received—they will probably be here
                                    in ten days or two weeks, after which time it will require two weeks to prepare for
                                    the trip.—So if Gardiner's com. is favourable, and is received
                                    Soon, we may get away in three or four weeks. I am very impatient to go—I
                                    am positively sick of so much delay and idleness; and was it not for the pay, which
                                    God knows I need bad enough, I would Steer some other course without the hesitation
                                    of a moment.—"Time is a great physician"
                                        and experience a great teacher. According to the old saying "it will make no great difference a thousand years
                                    hence" if we are compelled to undergo hardships, and experience some
                                    difficulties and uneasiness now.
                        I shall write to Father & mother in a day or two, and let them know that I am
                                    in the land of the living—I have not written to them Since in the first
                                    ten days I was at the "Wigwam."
                        Guy24 has told me that if there should a vacancy occur, he would
                                    secure it for you—it is not probable that any will
                                    occur. It is thought that not more than half a dozen families of the Ottowas
                                    will remove—if so I expect or Gardiner hinted, they [Ottowas] will need no Conductor, Ast. Conductor &c. but will be attached
                                    to one of these two tribes. It is true that there is a probability of Judge Shelby
                                    resigning his office as Ast. Con. to Robb, as he thinks he will be unable. through
                                    sickness, to accompany the Indians, but the preference, for the Sake of
                                        economy, will doubtless, be given to the Condr. or Asst. Condr. of the
                                    Ottowas, who will draw pay until the Agt. & Superdt. con.
                                    have it stopt by writing to the War Dept. that the Ottowas will not remove! ! ! !
                                    (or for other and better reasons)—your idea of this matter must lead you
                                    into the proper channel, you know who are dealing in this business and what their
                                    sentiments are—if a place could be procured, which you would accept, by
                                    Gardiner, or Pool, you would get it.
                        I hope that you may get the situation offered some time ago by 
                              
                                 20 Colonel Gardiner.
                              
                                 21 Spelled Wapaukonetta and Wapakoneta in different editions of Colton's Atlas (1855. 1856). The second spelling, which is that of
                                            today. appears in Johnson's Atlas of 1864.
                              
                                 22 Colonel Gardiner.
                              
                                 23
                                 Idem.
                              
                                 24 Guy W. Poole.
                           
                                     McLane.25 And my most
                                    ardent prayers are offered up for your success in business—may you reap
                                    the reward of your merit and perseverance, and never need the protection of Heaven
                                    against misfortune and disappointment.—Or the ills and privations that
                                    poverty is subject to! ! If I was able to establish our parents in a comfortable
                                    situation—independent of other people and other people's wills
                                    and property, I Should enjoy the most perfect earthly happiness.
                        I have just written to Slaughter26—who I think bears
                                    kind feelings for us both.
                        You will please write by the next mail, or I may not get your letter. Tell me how
                                    they are doing at home.
                        I am Sir, with great respect, your affectionate brother,27
                        
                        
                                    Daniel R. Dunihue.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Wigwam near Bellefontaine, 
                                    Ohio
                                 .28
                              
                           
                                    Sept. 11th 1832.
                                
                        Dear Aleck,
                        I am yet at Col. McPherson's waiting the movements of my superiors in
                                    office.
                        Col. J. B. G. arrived here about a week ago and went into Wapagh-konetta (30 miles)
                                    to put things in order there, and facilitate the preparations of those Indians for
                                    their departure; he returned and said all was in a rapid state of forwardness there;
                                    he then gave orders to Col. Mc and myself to assemble the Lewistown Indians (our
                                    band) who are in this vicinity, on the 12th and be prepared to bid adeau to Logan
                                    County on Sunday next. Col. McElvain was to pay the Indians the money for their
                                    improvements ($19,000.) He arrived here last Friday and proceeded to
                                    Wapagh to pay those people first—that caused Gardiner, who was ordered to
                                    be present and give directions how the money should be paid, to go to that place
                                    without delay—which he done on Sunday last. He will return to-morrow, I
                                    expect, which is the day that we are ordered to have the Indians encamped. Nearly
                                    everything is now ready for a move.29
                           
                        
                        Guy left here for the Maumee about a week ago, and is expected back in a day or two.
                                    He went to hurry Hollister and his tawney brethren, the Ottowas, some of whom are
                                    now encamped at Wapagh-konetta.
                        Col. VanHorne was here on Sunday last to endeavor to procure a situation for Wm. in
                                    the emigrating expedition. There probably never was any body more anxious to
                                    accompany the emigrants than this same Wm. V H. and I would have not the least
                                    objection to his company—He does not please you very well I
                                    know—neither is his dis 
                              
                                 25 Col. William McLane of 
                                                Bedford
                                            , Indiana. See the letter of McLane above.
                              
                                 26 William B. Slaughter, a prominent citizen of 
                                                Bedford
                                            .
                              
                                 27 A note written on the outside of the folded letter
                                            reads: "I receive letters every few days from the Wigwam. I have no
                                            idea when Unele James will be here [at Col. McPherson's home, near
                                            Bellefontaine]. This letter was addressed to 
                                                Bedford
                                            , Indiana, as Alexander, dieappnirted at not receiving a
                                            temporary government appointment, had returned to Indiana.
                              
                                 28 This letter was written by Daniel R. Dunihue to his
                                            brother Aleander, addressed to Bwlford. Indiana.
                              
                                 29 The movement began about a week after this letter
                                            was written.
                           
                                     position similar to mine, yet I would prefer
                                    his company to that of many others with whom I have had the same acquaintance. It is
                                    (I believe) the intention of J. B. G. to have a Secretary; indeed he told me that he
                                        would and must have one; and if you were not
                                    so far away he would make choice of you before any other—I did then think that he intended going near 
                                        Bedford
                                    , if not through it, and would get you then—that may be the
                                    case yet.
                        There is two chances to one against our making 
                                        Bedford
                                     a point. We will go from here by Urbana and 
                                        Dayton
                                     in this state and proceed to 
                                        Brookville
                                     Ind. from there I am ignorant of the course we shall steer.
                                    Lieu't. Lane has orders to furnish provisions for my red brethren at the
                                    latter place on the 20th of this mo. The Lieut's Commissaries and Asst.
                                    Coms. have been turned adrift by the War Departmen—he has retained four
                                    of them however under a different cognomen—calling three Disbursing Agents, being one to each detachment of Indians; and the other
                                    his brother of 16 Disbursing Asst's Clerk—They
                                    all appear to be pretty fine Hoozhurs.
                        Col. Mc. and myself agree to-gether very well. Nobody under the sun could have his
                                    confidence for one day, even after an acquaintance of a twelvemonth, who would not
                                    humor him. He is as changeable as the wind, and yet must always have his own way, if
                                    consulted, upon matters which concern him, previously to their accomplishment;
                                    therefore if I want anything done I must humor him as much as possible, and do what
                                    I want done without saying a word until it is finished—if then he is in
                                    an agreeable mood, he will sanction it: if not, it is otherwise. I shall have all
                                    the writing to do; both his and mine of every description—dcs [accounts]
                                    to keep, Returns to make, sign, certify, write letters, answers, quarterly
                                    statements, monthly do. & to cap the climax, I will be
                                    compelled to attend to his duty of superintending the issues of provisions and keep
                                    a journal of occurances. You may be assured that my time will not
                                    be idly spent.
                        My hostess is now lying very low with the measles—her life is in danger.
                                    We may possibly have to leave the Col. behind for a few days to
                                    attend to her. I hope not however, since, as I shall have so much else to attend to,
                                    he must dedicate his time to the conduct of the Indians, selecting camping ground,
                                    directing the manner of proceeding, encamping, time of halting, and striking tents,
                                    &c.
                        I received a letter from you, dated at 
                                        Bedford
                                    , a few days ago—you say you have been employed to collect,
                                    or secure bad debts—I hope the Lord may prosper you in
                                    all good undertakings. I am really sorry that you have missed the offer extended by
                                    McLane.—He may however yet make it again.
                        Please write to me at 
                                        Brookville
                                    . We will be there about the 20th or 21st. If any of the 
                                        Bedford
                                     people mean to write to me, tell them not to direct here, for I will
                                    bid adeau to this place probably next Sunday. I will now conclude. Give my
                                    remembrances to the people in 
                                        Bedford
                                    . Tell them I mag see them in two or three
                                    weeks—I think our prospect of passing through that place, not very dull.
                        
                                    May 
                                            Providence
                                         smile on and protect you
                                    D. R. Dunihue.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            The removal of 
                        Ohio
                     Indians to their new home beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                     began about a week after the writing of the above letter, and the first division
                    reached 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, on September 26, 1832.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp, near 
                                    Richmond
                                 , Inda.30
                              
                           
                                    Sept. 29th, 1832
                                
                        Dear brother,
                        I have been here for three days, with the formost detachment of Indians, waiting the
                                    orders of Col. J. B. Gardiner, who is now at Hardin, 
                                        Ohio
                                     about sixty miles N. E. of here. His last directions to the Condr. were
                                    to remain in this neighborhood until further orders should arrive from him, on the
                                    subject of our route. Gen. Wockman, the son-in-law of Col. McPherson the Condr. is
                                    now acting in that capacity. The Col's wife died a few
                                    days ago and he could not leave home until he settled his business. I am glad of the
                                    change and hope it may continue to the end of our journey, but there is but little
                                    hope of it.—Gen. W. has so far acted like a gentleman to me; but
                                    notwithstanding what I said in my letters of Col. Mc31 he has
                                    treated me (as I conceive) basely, unmannerly, ungentlemanly, &c. and it is
                                    not certain how long he will remain as Condr. for the Spl. Agt. is not much better
                                    pleased with him than myself.
                        It is about 10 days since we left Bellefontaine; we shall move from here I think in a
                                    day or two on the road to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , through which place we will most likely pass—from there we
                                    shall steer by the best route to 
                                        St. Louis
                                    .
                        Wm. V Horne is engaged as Secty. to Col. J. B. G.—He arrived at Bellef. a
                                    day or two before we left there.
                        I have not seen Uncle Guy for three weeks; but I am now expecting him out here to
                                    accompany this party.
                        Our camp exhibits quite a martial appearance—we have 258 persons
                                    —there is about 50 tents. Guns, tomahawks, Scalping knives &c.
                                    are profusely scattered about the tents and fires at the camping ground. We are not
                                    much plagued with drunken Indians—but we are often a little discommoded
                                    by the great number of white persons who come from all quarters to see our tawney
                                    brethren.
                        Yesterday I wrote to Coz. Harriet from whom I received a letter a few days ago (as
                                    well as from Lucy), written in the most affectionate style. They both (the girls)
                                    and Caroline also speak of you with the utmost affection: if you were their brother
                                    they could not praise your virtuous qualities higher than they do. Whenever my
                                    thoughts revert to those girls, which is not very seldom, I feel a kind of pleasant,
                                    a joyful sensation pervade me which could only be created by the conception that
                                    they are meritorous and highly deserving my esteem.
                        I wrote to our parents a few days before I left Logan Co. O. to inform them that I
                                    was yet in the land of mcrtals; and I would thank you to write by the first
                                    opportunity after recelving this and tell them where I am; also tell them to direct
                                    to me at Terre-Haute Ind. immediately, 
                              
                                 30 Daniel R. to Alexander H. Dunihue. addressed to 
                                                Bedford
                                            .
                              
                                 31 Col. James McPherson. See letter written by Daniel
                                            R. hnihue on July 20, 1882.
                           
                                     where I wish you to do the same. I expect to be
                                    in that place about the 15th of Oct. if not sooner.
                        Give my respects to all the 
                                        Bedford
                                     people that you see proper.
                        
                                    Very affectinately yr brother
                                    Daniel R. Dunihue.
                                
                        P.S. Col. J. B. G. & Lieut. J. F. Lane, I understood yesterday, had, a
                                    few days ago, a serve quarrel in which one struck the other-which struck I know
                                    not-no injury was sustained. One or the other(and I suspect Lane) will probably
                                    be withdrawn from the service Soon.32
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp, Park Co. In.
                           
                                    Oct. 11th '3233
                           
                                
                        Dear Bother,
                        Col. Gardiner joined us at indianapolis on the 6th or 7th inst. We moved onthe next
                                    day towards this place, which is 56 miles W. of the metropolis. He has not been to
                                    the Wig since he left there 6 weeks ago; and does not intend going(nor guy neither)
                                    until he returns from the "far west." Wm. V H. has been with him
                                    as clerk since he started. He however complains that Wm does not please him, and
                                    has, after several solicitations, at last prevailed upon me to exchange situations
                                    with him for a few days at least. He says the pay shall be the
                                    same; but that I do not so much think about (but probably I should) as the disorder
                                    in which I may find the duties of Asst. Condr. in this detachment when I again
                                    resume that station—I fear I shall have trouble, but my trust is placed
                                    in him "who is able to save."
                        We have got So far without meeting with any reformed, and one or
                                    two pretty good scoldings. But now, since I will be immediately under his eye, I
                                    hope that I will be so instructed by him that I will purse the Straight-forward-corse-of-retitude without needing the stimulating influence of No. 6 or a "Reformation."
                        W. VH. appears not so well pleased with this business as he anticipated before he
                                    joined us-he says that he would about as soon return as to proced if he could
                                    procure some money; but the Disbursing Agent Says that his funds are now about to be
                                    exhausted, and if he does not receive a new supply in a very few days "all operatins must cease," (which will be had indeed)
                                    by which you see his prospects for getting money are nt very
                                    flattering—he will therefore continue. he has said but a few words about
                                    A. H. D.35 since he came out the last time, which has somewhat
                                    surprised me, as he was before continually speaking of Alexander— all was
                                    about Alexander; has 
                              
                                 32 A note written on the outside of the letter after
                                            it were reads; "I have since sealing this learned that Col. J. B.
                                            G[ardiner] is sick at Piqua. O. 10 miles S. W. of Hardin. I heard also that
                                            the remain[in]g part of the indians are put 36 miles from here (about two
                                            days march). Col. McPherson is at their head. D"
                              
                                 33 Daniel R. to Alexander H. Dunihue, addressed to 
                                                Bedford
                                            . On the outside of the letter, the mailing address is given as
                                            "Dickson Mills, Ia. [Indiana]." A line on the face of the
                                            sealed letter says: "30 m. N. E. Terre Haute. D."
                              
                                 34Colonel Gardiner, uncle of the writer was the
                                            superintendent of the undertaking.
                              
                                 35Alexander H. Dunihue.
                           
                                     anything turned up to sour the feelings of
                                    either of you towards the other?
                        Gardiner says "the operations of the emigration shall not
                                    cease"— he "will kill and eat every public horse in the
                                    servic first"— about as good a thing as he ever said in his
                                    life—that is true Jacksonian, it is going the "Whole
                                    hog," and sow, and pigs. It would be one of the worst things that could
                                    possibly be done to the Indians and the government to have the operations of the
                                    expedition ceaseeven for a week, unless we were in the wilderness,
                                    far from liquor, and from temptation, and from the settlements of the
                                    whites— they are now troublesome and expensive enough, but if we should
                                    tarry a few days they would be more so, and would not possibly be able to get
                                    through this winter.
                        The detachment of Ottowas are but about 20 miles behind us, and the Shawnees of
                                    Wagaghkonetta one day's travel between them. We shall, I expect, continue
                                    before until we separate at the Mississippi river.
                        My health has been excellent since I left Lewistown— for several nights
                                    past I have rode all day, tied my horse to a tree at night, and laid down before the
                                    tent fire in my cloak— sleep follows fatigue, and refeshemend is the
                                    offspring of Morpheus. I could live the life of the native— could follow
                                    the chase, and overcome the fatigues attendant upon their changeful life.
                        Please direct me at Vandalia, Ill.
                        
                                    Very respectfully,
                                    Your affectionate brother,
                                    Danl. R. Dunihue.36
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Vandalia, Ill.
                           
                                    Oct. 23. 183237
                           
                                
                        Dear Brother,
                        I have been here for two days. When I came I immediately enquired at the P. O. for
                                    letters, but I found none, either for myself, Uncle James, or any body else. Last
                                    night I wrote a letter to coz. Lucy which a passenger in the stage had the goodness
                                    to take— he was going directly to 
                                        Columbus
                                    , O; and will arrive there next frideay ot saturday— which is
                                    probably before you receive this. I have neglected writing to you for the purpose of
                                    receiving first any communication for me that might arrive by the
                                    next mail. which is now anxiously looked for and expected by more than myself.
                        The Col. leaves herre in a few minutes for the encampment, 6 miles W. on the road we
                                    shall travel to-morrow.
                        The front detachment of Indians (the one of which I was appointed Assistant
                                    Conductor) is now leaving the town—the other detachment will pass here
                                    to-morrow and next day.
                        W.V. Horne continues to act as Asst. Condr. in my stead, & I as clerk to the
                                    Spl. Agt. & Supdt. in his place. We will propably 
                              
                                 86A note on the margin of the first page reads:
                                            "This day I joined the Col."The meaning is that Duninue
                                            changed jobs with William Van Horne. He became secretary to Colonel Gardiner
                                            and 
                                                Van
                                             Horne bacame as Asst. Conductor, temporarily.
                              
                                 87Daniel R. to Alexander H. Dunihue, addressed to 
                                                Bedford
                                            .
                           
                                     re-change situations when we arrive on the
                                    other side of the Missisippi river.
                        The Cholera is in 
                                        St. Louis
                                    . We shall cross above that place, in order to avoid it.
                        We are getting along bravely. Lt. Lane38 is in some other
                                    country: we have not seen or heard anything of him since we left 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . His funds were exhausted at that place, and he proceeded to 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     to procure more. We have been supporting ourselves and the Indians,
                                    nearly all the time since we left Indiana, upon money borrowed from the
                                        Indians.! ! What do you thing of this kind of business? Does it not seem to
                                    be squally times with us— we are however, in better spirits than you
                                    could possibly imagine we were while destitue of money—our tavern bills
                                    are immoderately, extra vagently high. We have for two weeks had extremely fine
                                    weather, with the exception of two or three days. Oh how delightful has been several
                                    prospects–and indeed nearly all, through the 
                                        Illinois
                                    — How romantic; how subline. When I get more time to describe
                                    some of the scenery of this wilderness of fertility, I will do
                                    so— probably that will not be until I return.
                        I had the pleasure of meeting with Dr. Gideon Baily in 
                                        Charleston
                                    , Cole Co. in this state. He has commenced practicing in that
                                    place–it (the village) exhibits but a dull prospect, but there is some
                                    valuable–or at least very fertile land aroung it. He has been there but a
                                    few weeks. He says he gets about as much practice as any physician in the county. He
                                    also talks of engaging in the mercantile business with a young man of that village.
                                    I advised his to settle in some village on the National Road.
                        I have had the pleasure of conversing with Capt. Hall— the brother-in-law
                                    of Maj. Long who went to explore the Rocky mountain country–he is quite
                                    an intelligent man. I aslo saw his brother James Hall the editor of the 
                                        Illinois
                                     Monthly magazine who lives in this place. He lost his wife a few weeks
                                    ago, and will start to Cinncinnati in a day or two to conduct his periodical at that
                                    place.
                        Your much admired female friend of 
                              Springfield, Ohio
                           , Miss Maria Hunt is no more. She died about a month ago
                                    much regretted by her young acquaintances–and particulary by our worthy
                                    cousins.
                        I will now stop until the mail arrives–and then close this. I have written
                                    in such haste and with so little care that it will be difficult for you to unravel
                                    the substance of this epistle.
                        It is now getting dark.– I have waited an hour since writing the above,
                                    and the mail has not yet arrived. Col. Gardiner has gone to the encampment, 6 miles
                                    off. I will wait for the stage if it comes not before midnight; and then go to the
                                    camp. I have a travelling companion, waiting on the same business, to cheer, or
                                    destroy, the dreariness of theway.
                        
                           
                              38Lieut. J. F. Lane, who clashed with Colonel Gardiner.
                                        See postscript of letter of Sept. 29,1832.
                        
                        
                        You will please direct to me at St. Louis.
                        
                                    Your affectionate brother,
                                    Daniel R. Dunihue.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Belleville, Ill. 14 Miles S. E.39
                                 
                                    St. Louis
                                 ,
                           
                                    Nov. 1st, 1832
                                
                        Dear brother.
                        I have just arrived from 
                                        St. Louis
                                     to which place I went this morning for the purpose of purchasing such
                                    articles as I (these cold nights) find necessary to the comfort of a tent. While at that place I enquired for letters, and had the satisfaction
                                    of finding one from yourself and one from friend Thompson.
                        At Hickory Grove, 28 miles W. of Vandalia, Co. John J. Albert of the U. S. Army,
                                    arrived on the 25th inst. to settle the dispute between were(or, at least, the Col.
                                    was) unwilling to do so. A thatn assumed the direction of the emigration and gave
                                    Col. G.leave of absence to return to 
                                        Ohio
                                     and report from thence to the War Department for further
                                        order! He ordered Lt. L. to proceed to 
                                        St. Louis
                                     and from thence to 
                                        Washington City
                                     to settle up his accounts, and report for order! ! He requested Uncle
                                    James to accompany him to the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     before he returned, which proposition the Col. has acceded to.
                        The poweer bestowed upon Co. Abert by the War Department were sufficient to warrant
                                    him in the course which he has pursued. Col. J. B. G. expresses the greatest
                                    pleasure in the decision of Col. Abert. He can now return to his family, which he is
                                    anxious to see, and provide for their safety in these critical moments, without the
                                    least disgrace whatever from any act during the expedition.
                        
                        The tribe which I am with goes to a different place from the rest of the Indians now
                                    emigrating from 
                                        Ohio
                                    , and we separated from the main body three days ago. We shall cross the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     at St. Genevieve, 40 miles S. of here; and the others will cross it
                                    about 20 miles above 
                                        St. Louis
                                    , at Alton. We all avoid 
                                        St. Louis
                                     to keep out of the way of the Cholera, which, a few days ago, made a
                                    rapid advance towards depopulating the city. About one third of the inhabitants have
                                    left the place, and a large number have gone to the other world, but I was told this
                                    morning while there that there was no Case in town; we may judge
                                    that the epidemic is abating. I am sorry to hear that it is in 
                                        Louisville
                                     & 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    . I fear it may be introduced into the country and destroy some of our people.I hope not.
                        I left my red brethren yesterday 13 miles N. of here, and expected to meet them by
                                    noon at this village; but it is now 3 oc. and I have been here half an hour but they
                                    have not passed nor have a heard of them. I fear some accident has happened, and I
                                    must go and see.
                        Uncle Guy has accompanied the other party—and will probably continue with
                                    it. If uncle J. B. G. had not got off on such good terms Guy, myself and serveral
                                    others would most likely have resigned; but as it iswe, I expect,
                                    will continue.
                        
                           
                              39Daniel R. to Alexander H. Dunibue. addresed to 
                                            Bedford
                                        .
                        
                        
                        I will write in a day or two to R. W. T.40 and probably to some
                                    other person in bedford.
                        
                                    Farewell—
                                    I remain your affectionate brother
                                    Daniel
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              St. Genevieve, 
                                    Missouri
                                 ,41
                              
                           
                                    Nov. 8th, 1832.
                                
                        Dear parents,
                        It has been a long time since I wrote to you, but I have endeavored to keep up a
                                    correspondence with Alexander, by which means you would be apprised of my various
                                    situations and the state of things generally in relation to your son Dan. I wrote to
                                    him from the other side of the river two or threee days ago.
                        This day we succeeded in landing all the Indians in this detachment on the Western
                                    Side of the "Father of water.' We have occupied the greater part
                                    of two days in this troublesome business of rowing the Indians half a mile across
                                    the river where a swift current is running. We shall now proceed directly to the
                                    west, and shall not probably be able to reach the place to which we are destined in
                                    less than a month.
                        In consequence of a difficulty existing between Uncle James and Lt. Lane, the
                                    Disbursing Agent for the Emigration from 
                                        Ohio
                                    ; Col. Abert, an Officer of the U. S. Army, was sent on to make a
                                    compromise between them; but hey were both unwilling to go [on] if the other went,
                                    so Col. Abert gave Col. J. B. G. leave of absence to return to his family and report
                                    to the secretary of war for further orders; and ordered Lt. L. to proceed to 
                                        Washington City
                                     to settle up his accounts and report for duty. Col. Gardiner left
                                    Alton, a town 20 miles above 
                                        St. Louis
                                    , last week for 
                                        Ohio
                                    . Lt. L. is now in the room in which I write, and I understood to-day is
                                    to accompany us W., but it is not agreeable to what Col. Abert told me, and I do not
                                    know how to account for it.
                        The Indians separated about 10 days ago, and the other party
                                    crossed the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     about 80 miles above this place. Uncle Guy is with the northern detachment. I saw him a few days ago, but not since the Indians
                                    were divided. He hs had very good health since he has beeb on the road: but probably
                                    he has written to you lately.
                        I have not written to the Wigwam [
                              Lebanon,
                                            Ohio
                           ] lately, but intend
                                    writing soon. The people of that place will be happy to receive the lord of the
                                        mansion,42since he returns without bringing with him any
                                    disgraee, as would have been the case had he been dismissed.
                        
                           
                              40Richard W. Thompson
                           
                              41Daniel R. to his father and mother, addressed to Daniel
                                        Dunibue, Sr., 
                                            Bedford
                                        , Indians. In a note on the outside of the sealed letter. The write
                                        asked that the letter be forwared to his father. The elder Daniel Dunibue still
                                        lived at 
                                            Mooresville
                                        , four miles from New 
                                            Albany
                                        . He moved to 
                                            Bedford
                                         in 1833. In a note on the margin of the third page of the letter.
                                        the son sinted that he was enclosing "a $20 hill,"
                                        thinking that his parents might find a use for it "and having it to
                                        spare."
                           
                              42Col. James B. Gardiner
                        
                        
                        My time is very much occupied. I have generally had remarkably good health. It
                                    appears that this kind of living—sleeping in a tent before a
                                    fire—eating meat roasted by the fire, and riding from breakfast until 3
                                    or 4 Oc.—agrees very well with me. I rode for a few days with Uncle
                                    James, as his clerk took my place, but I felt uneasy all the time; I had been for a
                                    few weeks so much accustomed to a different manner of living that I could not
                                    content myself.
                        When I get home, or have time before, I will endeavor to give you some kind of a
                                    description of the 
                                        Illinois
                                     prairies, and of the prairies on fire—they are both beyond a
                                    correct description, but a partial one may be given.
                        In Vandalia I had the pleasure of seeing Judge Hall, the editor of the 
                                        Illinois
                                     Monthly magazine; and of chatting for a long time with his brother
                                    Capt. Hall, a man of sense, humor, and experience, and who assists his brother in
                                    conducting his interesting work.
                        You will please write to me soon, and direct to 
                                        St. Louis
                                    ; I think that I can have letters forwarded to me from there; and if
                                    not, I can get them there on my return.
                        Wishing you all the good luck and prosperity within the power of 
                                        Providence
                                     to bestow, I will close this hurried letter, by subscribing myself
                        
                                    Your affectionate son
                                    Daniel.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            There are no further letters in the Dunihue collection that relate to the 1832 removal of 
                        Ohio
                     Indians. Colonel Gardiner superintended the removal only to the Mississippi
                        River, but his nephew, Daniel R. Dunihue, continued as Assistant Conductor of the
                    Lewistown (
                        Ohio
                    ) Indians to their new home in the Kenosha Valley country beyond the western boundary of 
                        Missouri
                    . It was a hardship for peaceful Indians, long engaged in agriculture in 
                        Ohio
                    , to give up their lands and homes and leave behind the burying grounds of their dead.
                    It was unfortunate that they reached the lands to which they were piloted in the middle of
                winter.
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               
                  
                            Minnesota
                         Farmers' Diaries (William R. Brown, 1845–46, and Mitchell
                    Y. Jackson, 1852–63), with an Introduction and Notes by Rodney C. Loehr. The 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, 1939. Pp. ix, 245, $2.50.
            This carefully edited and attractively printed book is a fitting token of the nineteenth anniversary
                    of the founding of the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, now so capably headed by Professor Theodore C. Blegen.
            Dr. Loehr's 33-page preface to the Diaries contains, first of all,
                    biographical sketches of the two diarists, whose journals are so unusual for the very reason that
                    farmers are usually too tired after doing the evening chores to record their experiences. William R.
                    Brown was born in 
                  Urbana, Ohio
               , in 1816, and, in 1841, he moved into the region around
                    Red Rock, 
                        Minnesota
                    , married, and took up a claim of one square mile. 
                        Brown
                     prospered during the eighteen-fifties, and, on the eve of the panic of 1857, was
                    assertedly worth $50,000. Mitchell Y. Jackson, the other diarist, was born in the same
                    year and likewise came from the Buckeye state. Jackson, however, spent his boyhood days in 
                        Fayette County
                    , Indiana. Then, in 1854, he moved out on the 
                        Minnesota
                     frontier to a place near Lake Ct. Croix, where, with his family, he lived for seventeen
                    years.
            
               
                        Minnesota
                    , during those years, may well be regarded as the most primitive of log and sod house
                    frontier communities, although by mid-century it experienced a mushroom growth. It is about the
                    simple everyday life—its joys, its sorrows, and its hardships—that these two
                    diaries tell.
            Of particular interest to the students of Indiana history is Jackson's diary, especially the
                    entries from 
                        Wabash
                     for 1852–1853 (pp. 85–96). Thus for example one reads: 
                        Sunday 22 [August, 18521 …. There is a good deal of sickness in town at this time
                            Mostly Flux of which some 10 or 12 hare died lately mostly children ….
                        
                     
                                Wabash
                             Nov 1852 Tuesday Nov 2 Presidential Election Gen Win-field Scott &
                            Graham are the Whig candidates Pierce & King Locofoco Hale Abolition I vote for the
                            Whig of course and feel proud to loose my vote upon Winfield Scott…. 
                                Wabash
                            . July 1853 Sunday 3rd…. After preaching a lengthy report is received
                            from our Elders in which among other things they report that they have urged A[lexander] E.
                            Jackson and  all the witnesses they knew of to prosecute
                            and testify as to the guilt of Elder BCenjamin] Whorton. … I felt it my duty to
                            state publicly that the report just received from the Elders abounded in misrepresentations
                            and false hoods….
                    
            
            It is in view of the dearth of this type of material, namely diaries by dirt farmers, that the
                    present volume is particularly a welcome contribution to the literature of the frontier.
            OSCAR OSBURN WINTHER
            
         
         
            
               The Old Fauntleroy Home. By Ross F. Lockridge. 
                        New Harmony
                     Memorial Commission (courtesy of Mrs. Edmund Burke Ball), 1939. Pp. xii, 219,
                    illustrated, $1.00 (for sale by the Director of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Memorial Commission, 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana).
            The author's purpose in this book has been to present "a panoramic view of 
                        New Harmony
                     from the portals of the Old Fauntleroy Home." Very fittingly does this
                    historic Home serve as a point of departure for such an endeavor. The Fauntleroy Home was built by
                    the followers of George Rapp, occupied by a typical Rappite family, and when those industrious
                    people moved away, it was used as a dwelling by members of the Owen community. Finally, it came into
                    the possession of Robert Henry Fauntleroy and his wife, Jane Dale Owen. Ever since, except for brief
                    intervals, Fauntleroys or Owens have occupied it. In its more than a century of existence, its walls
                    have witnessed the comings and goings of cultured and educated people, who have given to 
                        New Harmony
                     a distinctive character as a center of refinement. The Fauntleroy home was the
                    birthplace of the Minerva Club, a pioneer woman's club in Indiana, and it was the home of
                    scientists, authors and statesmen.
            Since the home was built by the Rappites, the first chapter of the book is quite properly devoted to
                    an account of the Rappites and their communal life. Succeeding chapters tell the story of the
                    efforts of Robert Owen to establish a "New Moral World"; the doings of those who
                    came with him; the coming together of the Owen and Fauntleroy families; the founding of the Minerva
                    Club; the lives of its members; the programs of the club; and finally, an appreciation of the work
                    of Miss Mary Emily Fauntleroy in preserving the home as a shrine for the women of Indiana.
            
            Really, the book is a popular account of the history of 
                        New Harmony
                    , and the story is told in an appreciative manner. The romance and charm of the town and
                    its inhabitants are given special emphasis, and much use is made of the contemporary writings of
                    those who lived in 
                        New Harmony
                    , or visited there. It is not critical history writing, but it was not intended to be
                    such, and errors and mistakes that appear are due to the inadequate research which has been made
                    into the history of 
                        New Harmony
                    , and especially in reference to the lives of the children of Robert Owen. The author
                    has made use of the best secondary sources available at present, and since he frankly attempted to
                    give only a "panoramic" view of the subject, he should not be held too closely to
                    details.
            The author has succeeded admirably in his task of providing a guide to the main events of 
                        New Harmony
                     history, and the reader should receive an insight into the undoubted sterling qualities
                    of those men and women who came and went into the Old Fauntleroy Home. The book itself is a pleasure
                    to handle and read. It is beautifully bound in dark blue simulated leather, with an embossed
                    representation of the Golden Rain Tree on the cover. Inside cover maps, photographs, and exquisite
                    line drawings are aids to the reader in visualizing the places and scenes of the story. An adequate
                    index is of great assistance in following the rather complicated genealogy of the Fauntleroy and
                    Owen families. Finally, the thanks of all who want to know more about 
                        New Harmony
                     are due to Mrs. Edmund Burke Ball, whose generosity made possible the publication of
                    this book.
            WALTER B. HENDRICKSON
            
         
         
            
               Abe Martin—Kin Hubbard (
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1939) is a neat, paper-bound booklet of thirty-nine pages, prepared by Blanche
                    Stillson and Dorothy Ritter RUSSO, with an "An Appreciation of Kin Hubbard," an
                    introduction, by John Calvin Mellett. It is described on the title page as "A study of a
                    character and his creator intended primarily as a check list of the Abe Martin books, but enlarged
                    to include a sketch of the life of Frank McKinney Hubbard and the Evolution of Abe Martin."
                    The matter contained in this little pamphlet is very valuable, and copies may be obtained from the
                    Hoosier Bookshop, 2135 North 
                        Alabama
                     Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                     for fifty  cents. Readers interested in Kin Hubbard
                    will find good supplementary material in "Kin Hubbard," an article by J. Harley
                    Nichols, that appeared in the Indiana Magazine of History (March, 1931), XXVII,
                    1–9.
            
               The Story of a Hoosier Immigration, with illustrations by Juliet A. Peddle and an
                    "Introduction" by Caroline P. Ball, was recently printed by The Brookside Press of
                    Harwinton, 
                        Connecticut
                    . This handsome little volume which furnishes the story, as recorded by Mary Elizabeth
                    Peddle, is well worth reading by anyone interested in the movement of families from older, civilized
                    communities to the raw frontiers of the West. The book runs to sixty-one pages, and may be obtained
                    from the Brookside Press or from Miss Juliet Peddle, Architect, 2117 North Tenth Street, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, for $1.50 per copy.
            We have just received the following volumes which will be reviewed in our next issue: Calvin B.
                    Goodykoontz, Home Missions on the American Frontier, Caxton Printers,
                            
                  Caldwell, Idaho
               ; Philip Dillon 
                        Jordan
                    , William Salter, Western Torch-bearer, 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Press, 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               .
            It gives the Editor of the Indiana Magazine of History pleasure
                    to announce the recent organization of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Press of 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               . The object of this new publishing agency
                    is to bring out volumes relating to cultural and political history. The prime movers in the
                    organization are two young, ambitious scholars, Dr. Charles M. Thomas of 
                        Ohio
                     State University and Dr. Philip D. Jordan of Miami University. They are
                    "especially interested in giving scholars an opportunity to make sufficient contributions
                    to Americana." The new Press has announced three volumes, one of which (mentioned in the
                    above notice) has already come out. The other two are: Charles M. Thomas, Thomas Riley
                        Marshall, Hoosier Statesman, and W, J. McNiff, Heaven on Earth, A Planned
                        Mormon Society. The Marshall volume is due this month (December), and the Mormon volume in
                    February, 1940. The Indiana Magazine of History welcomes the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Press and wishes it abundant success.
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages: THE SOUTHERN APPALACHIANS
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
            The name Appalachians includes all the mountains of the eastern highland system of North America. By
                    Southern Appalachians, we mean all of the mountains in the 
                        United States
                     that are located east of the Mississippi River and south of the
                    state of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . The Southern Appalachians trend so much away from a north and south line that, before
                    they fade out, they reach the very heart of the Lower South between the 
                        Mississippi
                     and the Atlantic. Indeed the mountain area forms a great peninsula in the South, as it
                    were, with plateau belts to the east, south and west, and, beyond these, lowlands along the
                    Atlantic, the Gulf, and the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The result is that a line from 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, to 
                  Charleston, South Carolina
               , crosses the Southern Appalachians at
                    right angles, and enables a tourist or traveler from Indiana to reach the mountains of the South
                    more quickly and readily than he can make his way to any other mountains. Furthermore, although one
                    must cross both the Pied-month Plateau and Tidewater to get to 
                        Charleston
                    , after leaving the Blue Ridge, 
                        Baltimore
                    , which is due east of 
                        Bloomington
                    , is as far away from the seat of Indiana University as 
                        Charleston
                    , and 
                        Cumberland Gap
                     is seventy-five miles nearer to 
                        Indianapolis
                     than is 
                  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
               .
            For a number of years, I have been interested in the mountain area of the South and have been trying
                    to get acquainted with this fascinating region through personal journeys. The ridges, the water-gaps
                    and wind-gaps, the rivers, the roads, the agricultural lands of the Appalachian Valley, the mountain
                    people, the cities—all these have a fascination for me that cause me to want to go again
                    and again to this wonderful mountain country that is so near to Indiana. There are winter resorts
                    and summer resorts with fine hotels and golf courses, to and from which people come and go every
                    year, but I am not personally attracted by these features of the southern highlands. In the natural
                    beauty, in the complex drainage system, and in the lines marked out by nature to be followed by
                    individuals and families as they migrated to new lands to play a part in their colonization, I have
                    a perennial interest.
            
            The passes of the southern mountains, both water-gaps and wind-gaps, have played an important part in
                    American history. Early explorers, traders and colonists used these passes. Builders of railroads
                    and highways have through the years sought them out. In the case of wind-gaps, railroads frequently
                    tunnel under, though not highways. The best known mountain pass east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     is 
                        Cumberland Gap
                    . This is a wind gap of the Cumberland ridge very near the point where the 
                        Kentucky
                    -
                        Virginia
                     line meets the northern line of 
                        Tennessee
                    . Roads converge on this high pass from the Appalachian Valley, some from the northeast
                    and some from the southwest, while others come from the Piedmont and Tidewater belts east of the
                    Great Smokies and Blue Ridge.
            The water gaps through the Blue Ridge, cut by the Potomac, the James and the 
                        Roanoke
                    , are almost as important. There are no water-gaps cutting through the Blue Ridge in 
                        North Carolina
                    , but several rivers flow across the high, carved-up plateau between the Blue Ridge and
                    the mountains that form the 
                        Tennessee
                    -
                        North Carolina
                     boundary, through the latter range and into the Appalachian Valley to contribute their
                    waters to the Tennessee River system. The gorges of the Watauga, Nolichucky,
                    French Broad, Big Pigeon, Little 
                        Tennessee
                     and Hiwassee have supplied difficult, but fine, scenic routes that have greatly
                    influenced colonization, trade and travel.
            One of the most interesting passes in the Southern appalachians is that where the New
                    River flows through the Alleghany Front. This water-gap is known as the
                    "Narrows." The New River, which rises in the Blue Ridge in 
                        North Carolina
                     near the sources of the Watauga and the Yadkin, flows northeast along the western base
                    of the Blue Ridge, then northwestward across the Appalachian Valley directly towards the
                    Alleghanies, cutting through them to flow down the slope of the Alleghaney Plateau towards the 
                        Ohio
                    . Along its way towards the Kanawha Falls, where it becomes the Kanawha
                    River, it has carved one of the most beautiful canyons in the 
                        United States
                    . Autoists who drive over the highway above 
                        Charleston
                     can look down into this splendid gorge when they reach the top of the hill after
                    crossing the bridge over the Gauley River almost at its mouth. The best chance
                    to enjoy the scenery along the New River, however, is to travel  in either direction over the Chesapeake and 
                        Ohio
                     Railway in the daytime between 
                        Charleston
                     and Hinton, West 
                        Virginia
                    .
            The beautiful gap through the Great Smokies that is occupied by the French Broad is easy of access to
                    travelers, as it is followed by an important line of the Southern Railway system and also by a
                    federal highway. Because of the popularity of the vast Smoky Mountains Park, thousands of tourists
                    pass through the gorge of the French Broad every year. Not only the passes of the greater mountains
                    of the South are of interest, but the wind-gaps and water-gaps of lesser mountain ridges, are of
                    real consequence to the people who live in the Southern Appalachians or travel through Southern
                    Appalachia. Massanutten Mountain, North Mountain, Shenandoah Mountain, Clinch Mountain, Chilhowie
                    Mountain, and others that lie wholly within the Appalachian Valley, are real barriers to movement,
                    and road builders from the beginning have had to hunt for the best places to go over or through
                    them. The same is true of ridges in foothill areas.
            The influence of passes in directing trade is evidenced by the location of the cities and towns of
                    mountain areas. In the Southern Appalachians, one readily thinks of Cumberland, in
                            
                  Maryland, Roanoke
               , in 
                        Virginia
                    , Middlesboro, in Kan-tucky, 
                        Atlanta
                    , in 
                        Georgia
                    , Harpers Ferry, in West 
                        Virginia
                    , and other centers that grew up because of the proximity of their sites to mountain
                    passes.
            The drainage system of the Southern Appalachians is as striking in its complexity as that of any part
                    of the world. In fact, system is a misnomer. The Potomac, James and 
                        Roanoke
                     cut through the Blue Ridge as they flow eastward. The North Branch of the Potomac
                    drains a small part of the Alleghany Plateau, and breaks through the Alleghany Escarpment before
                    reaching the Appalachian Valley where it is joined by the South Branch. The James
                    River has its source on the Alleghany Front and drains a considerable part of the
                    Appalachian Valley as it flows towards the Blue Ridge. The 
                        Roanoke
                     is a small stream west of the Blue Ridge. The New, as already stated, flows in the
                    opposite direction to cut through the Alleghanies.
            Southwest of the narrow drainage area of the New in the Appalachian Valley of East 
                        Tennessee
                    , we have the convergence of a number of rivers that have their sources in 
                        North Carolina
                    . The South and North forks of the Holston,  with
                    two parallel streams, Clinch and Powells, drain south western 
                        Virginia
                     and flow across the line into East 
                        Tennessee
                    . The forks of the Holston join to form the Holston. The Holston joins the French Broad,
                    which has already received the Nolichucky and Big Pigeon, to form the 
                        Tennessee
                    . Powells joins the Clinch, which flows into the 
                        Tennessee
                     about forty miles southwest of the junction of the French Broad and the Holston, which
                    is three and one-half miles above 
                        Knoxville
                    . The Little 
                        Tennessee
                     and the Hiwassee come out of the mountain area to the eastward to join the 
                        Tennessee
                    , the first above and the second below Kingston, where the Clinch flows into the same
                    river from the other side. The 
                        Tennessee
                    , instead of flowing out of the Appalachians in a natural manner and southwestward
                    towards the 
                        Mississippi
                     or the Gulf, turns abruptly, cuts through ridges, continues westward across northern 
                        Alabama
                    , and then takes a northerly course to the 
                        Ohio
                    . The rivers of West 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     flow naturally down the sloping plateau towards the 
                        Ohio
                    , except the Cumberland, which, though it rises in 
                        Kentucky
                     in the Cumberlands near the sources of the Kentucky River, flows
                    southwest, as if headed for the 
                        Mississippi
                     (or the 
                        Tennessee
                    , which would be in the natural path), but turns towards the northwest and almost
                    reaches the Tennessee River, where the two rivers pass from 
                        Tennessee
                     into 
                        Kentucky
                    . However, the two large streams run on to the 
                        Ohio
                     without a junction with each other, though they are nowhere much more than twelve miles
                    apart as they cross western 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            Rivers of the Carolinas and 
                        Georgia
                     that flow towards the Atlantic are quite regular. The Chattahoochee, with its sources
                    in the mountains near those of the Savannah, flows southwest a long distance, parallel to mountain
                    ridges, and, after leaving the hills, turns south towards the Gulf. While in the mountains, the
                    Chattahoochee, as it flows southwest, is but a modest distance above the sources of the Oconee, the
                    Ocmulgee and the Flint that flow away from it at right angles, The Flint, strangely enough, after
                    flowing southeast for many miles, parallel to its two companion rivers, is deflected to the right,
                    and joins the Chattahoochee at the southwest corner of 
                        Georgia
                     to form the Appalachicola which flows southward into the Gulf.
            
            Year by year, larger and larger numbers of Hoosiers make trips into the Southern Appalachians, and
                    more will no doubt go in the future. I have written this article, which is based partly on map
                    studies but mainly on personal study extending over a considerable period, in the hope that
                    information presented may be of interest to readers of the Indiana Magazine of
                    History.
         
         
            
               Contributors: Josephine A. Graf is a teacher in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Schools. Judge Louis B. Ewbank is an 
                        Indianapolis
                     attorney. Hon. H. H. Evans is a citizen of 
                        Newcastle
                    , Indiana, but has a summer home at Orland. He is a member of the Indiana House of
                    Representatives. Dr. Richard B. Weth-erill is a physician of 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana, and President of the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Historical Society. Martha Tucker Morris lives at 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana. She is Editor of "Indiana Genealogy" and vice-president of
                    The Indiana Historical Society. Dr. Oscar Osburn Winther is a member of the history faculty of
                    Indiana University, whose special interest is western history. Walter B. Hendrickson is a graduate
                    student of 
                        Harvard
                     University, now residing at 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, who has become interested in 
                        New Harmony
                     history through his study of David Dale Owen.
         
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid.
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks:
            
               ⋆Volume I, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1905).
            Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
            
               ⋆Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907).
            Volume VII, 4 (Dec., 1911).
            
               ⋆Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
            
               ⋆Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
            
               ⋆Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
            
               ⋆Volume XVII, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1921).
            Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
            Volume XXII, 1, 4 (March, Dec., 1926).
            The Indiana University Library will appreciate a gift of the following issues of the National Geographic Magazine: vols. I-VI (1890–1896, twelve issues per year),
                    IX (1898, twelve issues) ; XV (1904, twelve issues).
            In 1930, The Indiana Magazine of History published a General
                    Index for the first twenty-five volumes (1905–1929). The Index was compiled by
                    Dorothy Riker of the Indiana Historical Bureau. Every library and every individual possessing a file
                    of the Magazine for a period covered by the General Index, or
                    for any considerable portion of the period, should have a copy. It is still possible to obtain
                    copies at $1.00 each. Send orders to the Indiana Magazine of History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the articles of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
         
         
            The Hughes-Q'Neill Family
            IDA HELEN MCCARTY
            
            The Hughes and O'Neill families intermarried in 
                        Ireland
                     for many generations. The name O'Neill is illustrious in the annals of
                            
                  Ireland, Wales
                and 
                        Spain
                    . The first Earl of Tyrene was created in 1542 at Greenwich. The Hughes family in early
                    days was an off-shoot of the O'Neill clan.
            Thomas Hughes married his first cousin, Bridget O'Neill. Both Thomas and Bridget were
                    entitled to the Hughes Coat of Arms. They came to America to escape religious persecution in 
                        Ireland
                    , and settled in Loudon County, 
                        Virginia
                    , in the year 1739, bringing with them the brother of Thomas, Felime (or Felix) Hughes.
                    They came from Inver, 
                        Ireland
                    , which is in Donegal County, Ulster. There they left great estates and many relatives.
                    The father of these sons was Felime (or Felix) Hughes, who remained in 
                        Ireland
                    .
            Children of Thomas and wife Bridget O'Neill were: Felix, John and Thomas. Felix, the eldest,
                    was born in Inver, in 1723. He married Cintha Kaighn, an only daughter, and had four sons and two
                    daughters. John (or John Hugh) married Mary Hunter of Loudon County, 
                        Virginia
                    . The record of the line of Thomas may be found in Memoirs of My
                    Family, by Thomas Hughes (
                        Baltimore
                    , 1880). Thomas and John are named in the 
                        Leesburg
                     charter as incorporators of that town on the Patomac. Felix died in Green County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in 1805. The Hughes family had wealth and became large landowners, first in 
                        Virginia
                     and later in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . They retained house servants whom they brought from 
                        Ireland
                    .
            Felix Hughes built and maintained a blockhouse at a place near Carmichaelstown in that part of
                    Westmoreland County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , that subsequently became 
                        Washington County
                    . In a later division of 
                        Washington County
                     the area containing the town became Green County. Reference is made to this blockhouse
                    in a memorandum of Captain Isaac Craig's march from Carlyle to Fort Pitt. Captain Craig was
                    in command of a detachment of Proctor's artillery and stores in 1780. The memorandum states
                    that the said command reached the Felix Hughes place on June 21. A descendant, Thomas Hughes of 
                        Baltimore
                    , speaking of his ancestors, Felix Hughes and son James, relates that the Hughes family
                         settled east of Fort Duquesne, where Felix Hughes built and
                    maintained the blockhouse already mentioned for the protection of families of the settlement from
                        Indians.1
            
            Felix and Cintha (Kaighn) Hughes had four sons and two daughters. The family migrated to Indiana. The
                    sons were James, Thomas, Barnett and John. The name of one of the daughters was Elizabeth; that of
                    the other is not known.2 It was because of persecutions endured by the families
                    in 
                        Ireland
                     from English rulers and officers that the O'Neill and Hughes families were
                    glad to aid in the struggle of the American colonies for independence. They were fighting Irish.
                    Felix Hughes and three of his sons, James, Thomas and John, fought in the Revolutionary War. The
                    father served as a private,3 enlisting on August 7, 1777, in Captain Adam
                    Foulke's Company of third-class militia, then in the service of the 
                        United States
                     under the command of Jonathan B. Smith. Felix Hughes also served in Captain Jeremiah
                    Fisher's Company, 
                        Philadelphia
                     militia, commanded by Colonel William Bradford.
            
               Children of Felix and Cintha (Kaighn)Hughes:
            
            James, the eldest son, was born in 1750. He married Cassandra Dunn (Scotch parentage; b. Jefferson
                    County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ) in 1772. He erected a stone mansion for his wife. The first white settlers, not far
                    from Carmichaelstown were the Hughes, Swann and Heller families. James Hughes was one of the first
                    school teachers in this part of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . He was also tutor for sons of wealthy families in that part of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . He owned several slaves and was a man of exceptional ability. He was the first
                    Commissioner of Green County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . The year 1796 was the most prosperous of his life, for in that year he inherited much
                    land in 
                        Kentucky
                     from his brother John (killed by Indians not far from 
                  Shelbyville, Kentucky
               ), and also much land in Indiana which John had received for his
                    Revolutionary service in "taking the 
                        Illinois
                    ." This land was part of that on which the present city of New 
                        Albany
                     stands.
            James Hughes enlisted in the third 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Regiment, under Colonel Hazen, on November 13 or 15, 1776, and was transferred to the
                    Commander in Chief's Guards.4
                    
                  
                     1
                            
                        
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Archives Fifth Series, III 968–69: S. B. Nelson. History of 
                                    Baltimore
                                
                      (1898). 482; Thomaa Hughes, Memoir; of My Fcumily (
                                Baltimore
                            . 1880).
                  
                     2 These are the grandchildren of Thomas and Bridget (O'Neill)
                            Hughes.
                  
                     3
                            
                        
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Archives. Sixth Series, I. 61. 494.
                  
                     4
                     Ibid., Fifth Series, III. 779, 934.
               
                     He reenlisted on December 27, 1781. Dr. Carlos E. Godfrey, in
                    his History of the Commander in Chief's Guards (
                        Washington
                    , D. C., 1904), gives the signatures of most of the men comprising the Guards. Among
                    them is the signature of James Hughes, which checks with the signature on an original lease made by
                    him to Andrew Rude, on the fifth day of March, 1792, for land in Cumberland Township, 
                        Washington County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Dr. Godfrey shows that James Hughes was transferred to the Chief's Guards on
                    March 20, 1780. James Hughes, who had lived a useful life, died at the home of his son-in-law, Jacob
                    Burley, near Waynesburgh, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in 1807. He was buried in the O'Neill burying ground, in the vicinity of
                    Carmichael, or Carmichaelstown, Green County, near the grave of his father, Felix Hughes. This is
                    the burial place of many of the O'Neill and Hughes families, of those who came to America
                    prior to 1739 and of many who came later.
            Thomas Hughes, the second son, married Elizabeth Swann, of Loudon County, 
                        Virginia
                    .
            Barnett, the third son, removed to 
                        Kentucky
                     and left many descendants.
            John Hughes, the youngest son, went to 
                        Kentucky
                     also, and was killed by Shawnee Indians in 1780. He never married.
            Elizabeth, one of the two daughters, married William Hunter, a Revolutionary soldier. They removed to 
                        Kentucky
                    . Information relative to the second daughter is lacking.
            
               James and Cassandra (Dunn)Hughes had nine
                    children. Among them were: Thomas, Felix, or Pheline (b. 1774; m. Mary Donnelly; large family); Mary
                    (b. Mar. 2, 1878; m. Jacob Burley, or Burleigh, near Waynesburgh, Green County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ) .5
            
            
               Children of Jacob and Mary (Hughes)Burley:6
               
            
            Cassandra—m. Rezin B. Howard, at Cameron, Va. (now W. Va.).
            James—m. (1) Mary Alexander; m. (2) a sister of Mary Alexander, at Moundsville, 
                        Virginia
                     (now W. Va.): 
                  
                     5 These are the grandchildren of Felix and Cintha (Kaighn) Hughes, the
                            greatgrandchildren of Thomas and Bridget (O'Ntill) Hughes.
                  
                     6 These children of Jacob and Mary (Hughes) Burley were the
                            grandchildren of James and Cassandra (Dunn) Hughes, the great-grandchildren of Felix and
                            Cintha (Kaiahn) Hushes, and the great-greafgrandchildren of Thomas and Bridget
                            (O'Neill) Hughes.
               
                     member of the 
                        Virginia
                     Legislature and the Convention of 1860.
            Cintha—m. Jefferson T. Martin (
                        United States
                     Marshall for the western district, and later member of the Legislature of W. Va. from
                    Moundsville).
            John—m. (1)—Clark; m. (2) Olle Cameron.
            Tamer—m. Joseph Hicks, or Hix.
            Sarah—b. 1805; d. 1847; m. William Jackson Howard (brother of Rezin B. Howard, who married
                    her sister, Cassandra) .
            Elizabeth—d. early.
            Joshua—m. Catherine Roseberry (his cousin) of Wheeling, 
                        Virginia
                     (now W. Va.).
            Mary—m. Bernard Connelly.
            Thomas—m.—Cameron.
            Martha—m, — Bellton.
            
               Children of William Jackson and Sarah (Burley)Howard: Alfred Taylor, William Jackson, Jr., Joshua, Samuel, Maria, Ellen, 
                        Virginia
                    , Eliza, Anne, Sarah, Margaret, Jane.7 All of these children married
                    and many of their descendants live in 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana.
            William Jackson Howard, Sr., was the son of Samuel (b. 1770; son of Rezin and Esther Ashbrook Howard
                    of Hamp shire, 
                        Virginia
                    ). Samuel came via covered wagon to the home of his son Robert George
                    Howard in Indiana. He died there at the age of ninety-two, and is buried in the Masonic Cemetery, at
                    Montpelier, 
                        Blackford County
                    , Indiana. William Jackson Howard, Sr., moved to 
                        Athens County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , and there Sarah (Burley) Howard, his wife, died. She is buried in the Howard Cemetery
                    ("Concord"), near Trimble, 
                        Ohio
                    . Following her death, he married Sarah Alderman, a widow, and they came to 
                        Blackford County
                    , Indiana. Adjoining their farm, between Pennville, Jay County, and Montpelier, was the
                    farm of Robert George Howard, his younger brother. William Jackson Howard, Jr., married Sinai
                    Carpenter of Noble County; 
                        Ohio
                    . Their daughter, Alice Ida Howard, married William Alexander Douthett of
                            
                  Morgan County, Ohio
               . Their daughter, Ida Helen Douthett, married Marshall B. McCarty.
                    They live in Pennville, Indiana, today.
            
               
                  7 These are the grandchildren of Jacob and Mary (Hughes) Burley. the great
                        grandchildren of James and Cassandra (Dunn) Hughes, the great-great-grandchildren of Felix and
                        Cintha (Kaighn) Hughes, and the great-great-great-grandchildren of Thomas and Bridget
                        (O'Nelll) Hughes. The author, Ida Helen McCarty. is the daughter of Marshall B. and Ida
                        Helen (Douthett) McCarty.
            
         
         
         
            Queries and Answers
            QUERY 92: MCDANIEL FAMILY
            
            John McDaniel (spelled also McDaniels) lived in 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana. He was born in 1780, and died in 1850. He married Phoebe Richardson. His name
                    was also sometimes spelled McDonabd. This suggests a question. Could he have been
                    a son of Peter McDonald who married Catherine 
                        Wise
                    , and who was buried near 
                        Charlestown
                    , Indiana? Peter McDonald had a son John who was born in 1785, which date would be five
                    years off. Information relative to this family will be appreciated.—E.H.
            QUERY 93: MCNUTT FAMILY
            
            Alexander McNutt emigrated from 
                        Ireland
                     and settled in 
                        Ohio
                    . His son John moved from 
                  Adams County,
                            Ohio
               , to Indiana. He married Mahala
                    Hensley, a native of 
                        Kentucky
                    , the daughter of Richard Hensley of 
                        Virginia
                    . Children of John and Mahala (Hensley) McNutt were: Reuben, James, Cyrus F., Elizabeth,
                    Isaac 
                        Benton
                     (b. May 19, 1843, d. 1896). The second son, James McNutt of this family, married Jane
                    Hunt. They had children: John C. (m. Ruth Prosser), William, Dora, Ellen. Information is wanted
                    concerning Alexander and wife and John and wife, with dates and places.
            —M. N. McNutt.
            QUERY 94: MCCLELLAND-PORTER FAMILY
            
            William McClelland and his first wife, Jane Luckey, with their nine children migrated from Union
                    County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , to 
                        Butler County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1818, and then to 
                        Franklin County
                    , Indiana. After the death of his wife, William was married again in 1823 to a young
                    widow whose maiden name was Thompson, by whom he had six children. He died in 1872 in 
                        Franklin County
                    . Information is wanted concerning the descendants of the following children of William
                    McClelland: Joseph (b. 1795 in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ), Alexander (b. 1797), Sarah (b. 1798; d. 1881; m. Dr. A. B. James; lived in 
                        Springfield
                     Township, 
                        Franklin County
                    , Indiana), Isaac (b. 1805; some of his children lived in 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana), George (b. 1824; lived in 
                        Brookville
                    , Indiana), Mary Jane (b. 1827), James (b. 1829), Emeline (b. 1833; m.—Moore;
                         lived in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ), Samuel (b. 1838; lived near Brook-ville, Indiana).
            Elizabeth McClelland (1803–1872), fifth child of William McClelland's first
                    marriage, married Judge William Anderson Porter (1800–1884) in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana, in 1831. They had five children. Judge Porter was the son of Thomas and Mary
                    (Anderson) Porter, who came from 
                        Ireland
                     in 1799 to 
                        Butler County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , and later (perhaps) to 
                        Franklin County
                    , Indiana. Information is wanted relative to the descendants Thomas and Mary (Anderson)
                    Porter's daughter Elizabeth who married James Andrews; of their son Thomas, Jr., who
                    married Elizabeth McGaughey; and of their daughter Mary Porter.—M.J.G.
            QUERY 95: DONOHUE and BEECH
                        FAMILIES
            
            Elias Donohue (claiming to have been born in "
                        Wales
                    —not 
                        Ireland
                    ") moved with his wife Jane and several children from a point near 
                         Philadelphia
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , to 
                        Harrisburg
                        Fayette County
                    , Indiana, some time between 1820 and 1830. The children of Elias and Jane Donohue were:
                    Elias, Rachel, Lizzie, Polly, and John. Elias Donohue, Jr., was born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     on Aug. 10, 1816, and died at Fairhaven, 
                        Minnesota
                    , in 1899. He married Jane Beech (b. Mar. 4, 1821, in Indiana or 
                        Ohio
                    ) on March 24, 1835, in Indiana. Rachel (m. Moss), Lizzy (m. 
                        Brown
                    ), and Polly (m. Hayes) were all three married in Indiana. John Donohue married Harriet
                    Judd in Indiana. Elias Donohue, Sr., and his wife Jane died in 
                        Fayette County
                    , Indiana, and are buried in an old cemetery near 
                        Harrisburg
                     of that County.
            Elias and Jane (Beech) Donohue had twelve children, six of whom died in infancy or in later
                    childhood. The remaining six were: Hetty (b. Jan. 21, 1847; d. 1919), William (b. Apr. 3, 1849; d.
                    193—), Hester (b. May 18, 1851; d. Dee. 3, 1873, in Minn.), Joseph (b. Nov. 10, 1855; d.
                    Apr. 17, 1918, at Kimball, Minn.), Jane (b. Jan. 3, 1859, d. 193—), Malissa (b. Sept. 18,
                    1861; may be living). Briton and Cary, names of two of the
                    children who died early, are family names that are common in Donohue families. Wanted further
                    geneological and historical information relative to the Donohue and Beech families—Mrs.
                    Jessie B. Inman, 309 W. Moreland St., Phoenix, Ariz.
            
            QUERY 96: NASH FAMILY
            
            I would like information concerning Richard Nash who was born in 1754 in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , died in Indiana, and was buried somewhere in that state. I also desire information
                    about Robert Scott and his wife Martha Jane (
                        Mitchell
                    ) Scott. Robert Scott was born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and died on Indian Creek in 
                        Ohio
                     in 1811 or 1812. His wife is buried somewhere in Indiana in a cemetery called the 
                        Mitchell
                     Cemetery. —John F. Nash, Mesa, Ariz.
            Answer to Query 12 (December, 1936, p. 433 S.L.M.): In the Genealogical Department of the National Historical Magazine (published by the D. A. R.), November, 1939, p. 60,
                    mention is made of the publication of the Gregg Clan News, of September, 1939, of
                    which H. A. Gregg of 
                  Cambridge, Ohio
               , is the editor. William Gregg, born in 
                        Scotland
                    , came to America with William Penn in 1682, and settled in the present 
                        New Castle County
                    , 
                        Delaware
                    , near Wilmingtcn. This William Gregg was the American forefather of a great majority of
                    the present-day Greggs in our country. Matthew Gregg, a Revolutionary soldier, is buried in 
                        Rush County
                    , Indiana, according to records collected by Mrs. F. M. Harrison of 
                        Danville
                    , Indiana. He married Nancy Gibson (b. 1750; d. 1832) in 1769. They had children:
                    Elizabeth Baker, Sarah Rees, Nancy (b. 1781; m. Uriah Edwards), Lucy, Thompson, John
                    (1750–1832; m. Frances Spillman), Mary Thompson, James, and Marie Culbertson. The service
                    of Matthew Gregg in Stafford County, 
                        Virginia
                    , as a private, was for three years. He died in 
                        Rush County
                    , Indiana, on March 30, 1832. Mrs. Harrison gives as proof an autobiography by Rev.
                    Wilson Thompson and pension records.
            —M.T.M.
            Answer to Query 48 (December, 1937, p. 517, M. H.): James Ingram was born in 
                        England
                    , lived in Norriton Township, 
                        Philadelphia County
                    , 
                        Philadelphia
                    , near the 
                        Chester County
                     line, and is listed in 1774 and 1779 tax assessments. He died in Saluda Township, 
                        Jefferson County
                    , Indiana, as stated in the query. His will was probated on February 2, 1822. By his
                    wife Hannah, he had seven children: James, Elizabeth, Hannah, Jane, Polly, Nancy, and Lydia. In the
                        Encyclopedia of American 
                            Quaker
                         Genealogy, compiled by  William Wade
                    Hinshaw, 11, 380, records from 
                        Philadelphia
                     Monthly Meeting, it is stated that John Ingram died on June 3, 1747; that his wife Ann,
                    died on July 2, 1744; that their daughter Rachel died on January 31, 1731, and daughter Sarah on
                    September 18, 1747.
            On page 445, the record lists the following daughters: Ann (buried July 10, 1721), Elizabeth (buried
                    December 26, 1721), Elizabeth (second daughter of the same name; buried May 19, 1729). This record
                    seems to show the parentage of James Ingram, Sr. His son, James Ingram, Jr., was born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     on February 5, 1750, and died in 
                        Jefferson County
                    , Indiana, on March 13, 1827. He married Nancy Austin (daughter of John Austin) in
                    Oldham County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , on October 31, 1816. Soon after their marriage, the couple came to 
                        Jefferson County
                    , Indiana, where their first child, Mary Elizabeth, was born on October 9, 1817. She
                    married John R. Woodard. Other children of James and Nancy Austin Ingram were: William (b. April 6,
                    1819; m. Nancy Fouts) ; Malinda Jane (b. Aug. 27, 1820), James Wesley (b. April 10, 1822; lived in 
                        Valparaiso
                    , Indiana; his son Frank still lives there), Julia Ann (b. Nov. 19, 1823), John Nelson
                    (b. Nov. 13, 1827; served as captain in the Mexican War, and later in the Civil War). John Austin,
                    father of Nancy (wife of James Ingram, Jr.) was born in 
                        England
                     in 1736. He came to Fauquier County, 
                        Virginia
                    , served in the Revolutionary War as a private in the regiment of sharpshooters under
                    General Daniel Morgan, and was in the Quebec expedition of 1775. He served throughout the War of
                    Independence. He died in Oldham County, 
                        Kentucky
                    . Descendants of James and Nancy (Austin) Ingram live in 
                        Chicago
                    , Pomona, 
                  California, Jeffersonville
               , Indiana, and 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               . The late Dr. Julia A. Ingram of 
                        Louisville
                     was of this family. The Ingrams in the 
                        United States
                     Navy are descendants of William Austin Ingram, second child of James, Jr., and Nancy
                    Austin.—Mrs. Francis O. Hester, 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
            The Old Conrad Cemetery Records1
            
            Maurice Griffin and Frederick P. Griffin
            
               Jacob Conrad—d. Oct. 10, 1841; aged 80 yrs.
               Mary—wife of Jacob Conrad; d. Jan. 17, 1841; aged 77 yrs., 4 mos.
               Phebe Jane Conrad—dau. of J. and E. Conrad; b. Dec. 10, 1832; d. May 21, 1834.
               Henry Conrad—b. 1800; d. March 12, 1858.
               Polly—wife of Henry Conrad; b. Jan. 1806; d. July 23, 1884.
               George Conrad—b. May 22, 1806; d. Nov. 4, 1883.
               Nancy—wife of G. Conrad; b. Sept. 8, 1804; d. Dec. 25, 1862.
               Philip Conrad—d. Feb. 16, 1881; aged 55 yrs., 9 mos, 11 days.
               Eliza R.—wife of P. Conrad; d. July 28, 1869; aged 44 yrs., 3 mos., 24 days.
               Peter Server—son of John and Elizabeth Server; b. July 18, 1815; d. Dec. 10, 1815;
                        aged 4 mos., 22 days.
               Jacob A. Server—son of Peter and Dorothy Server; d. Sept. 2, 1835; aged 34 yrs.
               Dorothy Server—wife of Peter Server; d. July 2, 1828; aged 68 yrs.
               Samuel Wesley Row—d. June 20, 1849; aged 22 yrs., 10 days.
               Daniel 
                            Hamilton
                         Row—d. Jan. 29, 1845; aged 19 yrs., 9 mos., 19 days.
               Jesse S. Rowe—b. Nov. 6, 1809; d. July 7, 1854.
               Daniel Row—d. Sept. 18, 1864; aged 79 yrs.
               Mary Rowe—d. April 13, 1875; aged 89 yrs., 2 mos., 22 days.
               John H. Allburn—b. Jan. 21, 1809; d. July 28, 1838.
               John J. Allburn—d. Oct. 24, 1839; aged 13 mos., 11 days.
               Margaret Mugler—dau. of J. G. and M. Mugler; d. July 31, 1847; aged 15 yrs., 6 mos.
               Infant daughter of P. and Anna Zenor—b. and d. May 16, 1855.
               John H. Zenor—son of A. and A. M. Zenor; d. Aug. 16, 1862; aged 3 mos., 7 days.
               Christopher Shuck—b. July 11, 1766; d. April 21, 1833. 
                     
                        1 Jacob Conrad, who immigrated to Corydon from 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , built a hotel in 1807 about a mile and a half east of Corydon on the
                                Corydon-New 
                                    Albany
                                    Pike
                                . During the time that Corydon was the capital of Indiana
                                (1813–1825), Jacob Conrad's hotcl was the principal one and also the
                                most popular. The Conrad Cemetery is located a short distance east of the spot where the
                                Old Capital Hotel once stood. The record is complete. every legible name being copicd
                                from the stones in the Cemetery. There are several scores of stones on which there are
                                now no records. The records were copied on October 29, 1939.
                  
               
               
               Mary C.—wife of Christopher Shuck; b. July 11, 1773; d. Sept. 17, 1822.
               Elizabeth Shuck—d. Feb. 13, 1863; aged 24 yrs., 4 mos., 8 d.
               Mary A. Shuck—wife of H. Shuck; d. Sept. 8, 1864; aged 23 yrs., 3 mos., 13 days.
               Cora A.—dau. of H. and M. A. Shuck; d. Sept. 2, 1864; aged 22 days.
               Henry Shuck—b. 1835; d. 1922.
               Eliza J.—wife of H. Shuck; b. March 8, 1844; d. Jan. 9, 1903.
               George Shuck—b. June 21, 1800; d. Sept. 21, 1889.
               Mahala Shuck—wife of George Shuck; b. Sept. 18, 1805; d. June 14, 1894.
               Rebecca—dau. of J. S. and M. Gilham; b. Oct. 5, 1853; d. Oct. 10, 1853.
               Diana E.—dau. of J. S. and M. Gilham; b. Jan. 14, 1855; d. March 1, 1856.
               Eli Leo—son of J. A. and M. E. Lone; b. Dec. 23, 1870; d. Aug. 23, 1879.
               Infant of J. A. and M. E. Lone—b. and d. Dec. 21, 1861.
               Samuel—son of D. and M. Pfrimmer; d. July 18, 1860; aged 4 mos., 5 days.
               John Dick—b. June 1, 1797; d. March 16, 1859.
               Margaret—wife of John Dick; d. Sept. 7, 1858; aged 58 yrs.
               John J.—son of H. and S. Dick; b. Feb. 16, 1863; d. April 22, 1863.
               James A.—son of A. A. and M. C. Wright; d. June 26, 1865; aged 7 yrs., 11 mos., 22
                        days.
               William H.—son of A. A. and M. C. Wright; d. March 7, 1866; aged 5 mos., 13 days.
               Samuel Emily—Company K, 59th Indiana; d. May 1, 1884; aged 70 yrs.
               Elizabeth E.—wife of Samuel Emily; b. March 20, 1824; d. May 4, 1902.
               Clarence D., Flosie E., and Walter D.—children of D and L. Emily; d. 1890, 1891,
                        1893.
               James Allen—d. March 23, 1885; aged 39 yrs.
               Ella V.—dau. of J. and M. A. Allen; d. Sept. 9, 1875; aged 5 yrs., 5 mos., 13 days.
               Johnie, M.—son of J. and M. A. Allen; d. Jan. 18, 1875; aged 1 yr., 4 mos., 23
                        days.
               John A. Kelly—d. Jan. 23, 1892; aged 80 yrs.
               Eveline—wife of John A. Kelly; d. May 16, 1890; aged 76 yrs.
               
               Read Crandall—b. Dee. 22, 1791; d. July 22, 1870.
               Polly—wife of Read Crandall; d. Sept. 14, 1865; aged 80 yrs.
               A. C. Crandall—b. 1860; d. 1895.
               Nellie L.—dau. of A. C. Crandall; b. 1893; d. 1909.
               Daniel F. Lemmon—b. July 18, 1844; d. April 18, 1914.
               Lucinda Lemmon—wife of Daniel F. Lemmon; b. Oct. 31, 1844; d. April 21, 1914.
               James W.—son of D. F. and Lucinda Lemmon; b. May 20, 1875; d. Nov. 18, 1877.
               Infant daughter of D. F. and L. Lemmon—d. June 29, 1864.
               Nancy Jane Venner—wife of John S. Venner; d. Feb. 4, 1866; aged 27 yrs., 1 mo., 27
                        days.
               Mary B.—dau. of G. W. and M. E. Venner; d. Aug. 15, 1872; aged 2 mos., 27 days.
               Lucinda C., dau. of S. and S. Gates; d. Aug. 22, 1864; aged 1 yr., 28 days.
               Sampson Turley—aged 88 yrs., 8 mos., 16 days.
               Lydia A. Turley—b. April 28, 1856; d. Aug. 19, 1898.
               Infant—son of W. H. and E. Turley; b. and d. 1866.
               Cordelia—dau. of W. H. and R. Turley; b. Oct. 19, 1863; d. July 18, 1864.
               Rebecca—wife of W. H. Turley; b. July 1, 1826; d. April 7, 1864.
               George Stonecipher—b. Jan. 10, 1789; d. Sept. 26, 1878; aged 89 yrs., 8 mos., 16
                        days.
               Mary Ann—wife of Geo Stonecypher [sic] and dau. of Jacob Young;
                        d. Nov. 9, 1868; aged 70 yrs, 7 mos.
               George Lear—d. June 12, 1874; aged 69 yrs., 3 mos., 29 days.
               Elizabeth—wife of Geo Lear; b. Feb. 22, 1822; d. Jan. 8, 1899; aged 76 yrs., 10
                        mos., 16 days.
            
         
         
         
            Old Cemetery Records
            Mrs. John L. Martin
            
                    Silver Lake Cemetery Records:
                    1
                
            
               Phebe—wife of Alexander McKinzie; d. July 29, 1849; aged 35 yrs., 9 rnos., 35 days.
               Summers Dean—d. Aug. 27, 1849; aged 42 yrs., 7 mos., 20 d.
               Phebe—dau. of John and Mary McKinzy [sic]; b.
                        March 28, 1831; d. Oct. 18, 1851; aged 17 yrs., 7 mos., 10 days.
               Mary—wife of John McKinzie; b. July 1, 1801; d. 1853.
               John McKinzie—consort of Susannah and wife Mary McKinzie2; d.
                        March 27, 1859; aged 60 yrs., 9 mos., 11 days.
               Rebecca—wife of Daniel Dean, and dau. of Benjamin Haines and Mary Haines; b. Feb.
                        14, 1813; d. June 27, 1852.
               Julia A. Haines—b. Oct. 8, 1825; d. Aug. 14, 1827.
               Elizabeth Haines—b. Feb. 24, 1812; d. Dee. 29, 1833.
               Parents, Mary Haines—b. 1787; d. Jan. 1839; aged 52 yrs., 9 days.
               Samuel Haines—d. June 1849; aged 60 yrs., 10 rnos., 12 days.
               Ruth Haines—d. June, 1849; aged 30 yrs., 4 rnos., 144 days.
            
            
                    Wilcoxin Cemetery Records:3
               
                
            
               Aaron Wileoxson—b. June 11, 1764; d. July 11, 1830.
               Wiliam T. Wilcoxson—b. June 12, 1810; d. Aug. 12, 1840.
               Hannah Wilcoxson—b. Feb. 3, 1766; d. June 18, 1839.
               Pleasant Wilcoxson—b. July 28, 1842; d. Aug. 7, 1842.
               Nancy Wilcoxson—wife of William T. Wilcoxson; b. Nov. 2, 1817; d. Nov. 20, 1847.
               Harvey Wilcoxson—b. Oct. 25, 1847; d. May 8, 1848.
               Judah Black4—b. Jan. 14, 1763; d. Jan. 18, 1842.
            
            
               
                  1 This cemetery is in thd northern part of 
                            Harrison County
                        , Indiana, near what was known as Silver Lake. This like, which was drained several
                        years ago, covered twenty-six acres. The McKinzies were settlers on the lake farm, while the
                        Haines family settled in 
                            Washington County
                        , Indiana, about one and a half miles west of Silver Lake. There are several graves
                        which are not marked.
               
                  2 This item is copied as found on the stone. It does not make sense, but
                        seems a clumsy atteinnt to say, that, after the death of his first wife (Mary) in 1858, John
                        McKinzie married Susannah as his second wife.
               
                  3 This cemetery is near 
                            Pekin
                        . 
                            Washington County
                        , Indiana, on the farm of Edgar S. Marshall.
               
                  4 Judah Black was a colored woman. perhaps a servant in the Wileoxson
                        home.
            
         
         
         
            Abstracts of Early Wills and Executors' Records1
            
            DOROTHY RIKER
            
            
               Trueblood, Benjamin. Appraisal of personal property made October 26, 1815, by Jonah
                    Trueblood and Joseph Allen (
                        Clark County
                     Will Record A, 1801–17, 140). No appointment of administrator found.
            
               Renard, Francis P. Died March 3, 1815. Appraisal of personal property and bill of
                    sale, July 22, 1815 (ibid., 149–52). No appointment of administrator
                    found.
            
               Daughevty, William. Administrators, widow Susannah Daugherty and James Magill,
                    appointed May 23, 1816. Bond, $300 (ibid., 152–53,
                    155–56).
            
               Aldridge, Christopher. Administrator, Andrew Gelwick, appointed May 22, 1816. Bond,
                    $300. Securities: James Lemon, James Pile (ibid., 135).
            Keep (or Reep), Henry. Administrator, John Hawn, appointed June
                    11, 1816. Bond, $400. Appraisement of personal property and bill of sale, August 2, 1816
                        (ibid., 164, 165–67).
            
               Smith, Catharine. Administrator, Joseph 
                        Bartholomew
                    , appointed July 19, 1816. Securities: Henry L. Minor, Isaac 
                        Shelby
                     (ibid., 155). Appraisement of personal property made October 23, 1816
                    (Vol. B, 133).
            
               Armstrong, John. Administrator, widow Tabitha Armstrong and Henry Morton, Jr.,
                    appointed August 2, 1816. Bond, $1200. Securities: William Plasket and Andrew P. Hay.
                    Appraisement of personal property made September 12, 1816 (ibid., Vol. A, 157,
                    182–88).
            
               Barnaby, Mathew. Administrator, Wallace Sullender, appointed August 16, 1816. Bond,
                    $100. Securities: James N. Wood and Joseph Carr (ibid., 156). Robert
                    Barnaby had previously been appointed administrator on May 14, 1812 (ibid.,
                    58–59).
            
               Russell, Burr C. Will dated June 14, 1816; probated September 5, 1816. Heirs: wife
                    (name not given) and two children, one of whom was aamed Harrison. Executors: Charles Johnson,
                    George Russell. Witnesses: John Russel, Elizabeth Russel. Appraisement of personal property and bill
                    of sale (ibid., 159, 179–82).
            
               Daughter, James. Administrator, Andrew Gelwick, appointed September 3, 1816. Bond,
                    $400. Securities: David Bloom, John Weathers (ibid., 160).
            
               Daugherty (or Ricker?), Wentworth.
                    Administrator, Ebenezer Serles (Searles ?), appointed September 30, 1816. Bond, $200.
                    Securities: Jesse 
                        Hamilton
                    , John Chew (ibid., 161). Appraisement of personal property made March
                    3, 1817 (Vol. B, 129).
            
               Aborn, Henrg. Administrator, widow Abby R. Aborn, appointed October 1, 1816. Bond,
                    $200. Securities: Benjamin Sprall, John Ferguson (ibid., Vol. A, 162,
                    175–77). Appraisement of personal property made November 4, 1816 (Vol. By
                    157–59).
            
               
                  1 Continued from September, 1939. issue of Zndiana Mawine of
                            History. Compiled from microfilm copies of 
                            Clark County
                        , Indiana, Will Record A. 1801–1817, and Will Record 8,
                        1817–1833, made for the Historical Records Survey, Works Progrcss Administration, in
                        1936, and deposited in the Archives Division of the Indiana State Library.
            
            
            
               Summers, David. Administrator, George Summers, appointed OCtober 24, 1816. Bond,
                    $400. Securities: Evan 
                        Shelby
                    , James Scott. Appraisement of personal property and bill of sale (ibid., Vol. A, 16, 189–93).
            
               Wilson, Alexander. Administrators, John and Thomas Wilson, appointed November 4,
                    1816. Bond, $20,000. Securities: Samuel Meri-wether, William Bowman (ibid., 164).
            
               Pearsall, Jeremiah. Will dated December 3, 1816; probated January 6, 1817. Heirs:
                    brother John Pearsall, setpdaughter Nancy. Executors: John Pearsal, Gasper Pope. Witnesses: William
                    Roberts, Thomas Taylor, Richard Aston (ibid., 193–95).
            
               Harmon, Samuel. Administrator, Samuel Packwood, appointed January 20, 1817. Bond,
                    $80. Securities: John McKinley, Frederick Gore (ibid., 195).
            
               McKinley, William. Administrator, John McKinley, appointed January 20, 1817. Bond,
                    $300. Securities: Samuel Packwood, Frederick Gore (ibid., 196).
            
               
                  
                            Hamilton
                        , Archibald. Administrator, William Hamilton, appointed January 21, 1817. Bond,
                    $25. Securities: John Cass, George Bradford (ibid., 197). Appraisement
                    of personal property (Vol. B, 78).
            
               Munden (or Moudon ?), Elisha. Administrator,
                    widow Nancy Munden, appointed January 21, 1817. Bond, $50. Securities: Joshua W. Redman,
                    John Reed (ibid., Vol. A, 197).
            
               Boyer, Frederick. Administrator, Christopher Boyer, appointed January 21, 1817.
                    Bond, $200. Securities: John Boyer, Isaac 
                        Shelby
                     (ibid., 198).
            
               Summers, Jesse C. Administrator, Isaac 
                        Shelby
                    , appointed January 21, 1817. Bond, $30. Securities: Joshua W. Redman, John
                    Cam (ibid., 198).
            
               Caw, William. Administrator, Isaac 
                        Shelby
                    , appointed January 21, 1817. Bond, $25. Securities: Joshua W. Redman, John
                    Cam (ibid., 199).
            
               Frazier, John. Administrtor, Isaac 
                        Shelby
                    , appointed January 22, 1817. Bond, $14. Securities: John Weathers, Alexander
                    Buckner, (ibid., 199).
            
               Smith, Stephen (late of 
                        Philadelphia
                    ). Will (not dated or date given for probation). Heirs: aunt, Deborah Alden; sisters,
                    Min Barcton (?) and Phebe Speakman. No executor named and no witnesses (ibid.,
                    200).
            
               Seveney, James. Administrator, William Fergwon, appointed May 19, 1817. Bond,
                    $1000. Securities: George P. Meredith, George Ross (ibid., 201).
                    Appraisement of personal property (Vol. B, 124–26).
            
               Griffith, Roderick. Administrator, Daniel Fetters (or Fetter), appointed June 7,
                    1817. Bond, $6000. Securities: John Douthitt, Evan 
                        Shelby
                     (ibid., Vol. A, 202). Appraisement of personal property and bill of
                    sale (Vol. B, 53–70).
            
               Slocum, Cornelius. Administrator, Zebulon 
                        Leavenworth
                    , appointed August 22, 1817. Bond, $400. Securities: Stephen Ramsey,
                    Christley Swarts (ibid., Vol. A, 203). Appraisement of personal property (Vol. B,
                    128).
            
            
               Phslps, Joseph. Administrator, Zebulon 
                        Leavenworth
                    , appointed August 22, 1817. Securities: Stephen Ramsey, Christley Swarts (ibid, Vol. A, 203–4). Appraisement of personal property (Vol. B,
                    128–29).
            
               
                  
                            Lowell
                        , Jacob. Administrator, Mrs. Sarah Lowell, appointed September 9, 1817. Bond,
                    $800. Securities: Enathan (Johnathan ?) Jennings, James Lemon (ibid., Vol. A, 206).
            
               Allen, Samuel. Administrator, Joshua Thompson, appointed September 29, 1817. Bohd,
                    $300. Securities: Joseph Cam, Evan 
                        Shelby
                     (ibid., 206). Appraisement of personal property, October 4, 1817
                    (Vol. B, 164–66).
         
         
            
                    Correction
                
            The second sentence of the first footnote on page 344, of the September issue, should read: The Jonas
                    Hoover dealt with in "The Jonas Hoover Family," by Dr. William Reser, ibid. (March, 1937), XXXIII, 101–104, was a different Jonas Hoover, being the
                    son of Daniel Hoover, grandson of Andrew and Margaret Fouts Hoover. See ibid.,
                    XXXIV, 245, note 2.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
