
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 59, Issue 2, pages 189-297. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:59+issue:2+year:1963&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            An Indiana Soldier in Love and War: The Civil War Letters of John V. Hadley
            
                    Edited by James I. Robertson, Jr.
                    *
                    Contributed by Mrs. Jane Hadley Comer
                    **
                
            Indiana's participation in the Civil War was varied and valuable. It was the birthplace of a
                    host of Federal generals, including Ambrose Burnside, Lew Wallace, John T. Wilder, Jefferson C.
                    Davis, and Robert 
                        Milroy
                    . The state's wartime executive, Governor Oliver P. Morton, so dominated his
                    region politically that Albert J. Beveridge once classified him as "Deputy President of the 
                        United States
                     in active charge of the Ohio Valley."1 In many respects,
                    however, Indiana's greatest contributions to the preservation of the Union were the 185,803
                    men who served loyally in the Hoosier State's 32 batteries and 136 regiments.2
            
            One of those men was Lieutenant John Vestal Hadley, Company B, Seventh Indiana Infantry. His name
                    does not appear in the massive, 128-volume War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the
                        Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies. In state publications relative to the
                    Civil War Hadley is mentioned only in organizational tables of company officers. Yet this young
                    officer saw action in some of the major battles of the Eastern theater. He received 
                  * James I. Robertson, Jr., formerly the editor of Civil War
                                History, is now the executive director of the U.S. Civil War Centennial Commission
                            and an associate professorial lecturer at George 
                                Washington
                             University, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.
                  ** Mrs. Jane Hadley Comer, of 
                                Iowa City
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , is a granddaughter of Judge John V. Hadley. She first alerted the editor to
                            the existence of these Civil War letters, gave full permission for their publication, and
                            assisted valuably in amassing information on Judge Hadley's life. The original
                            letters are in her possession.
                  
                     1 Quoted in Emma Lou Thornbrough, "Morton's One-Man
                            Government," Indiana Civil War Centennial Commission, Indiana and the
                                Civil War (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1961), 22.
                  
                     2 John D. Barnhart, "The Impact of the Civil War on
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, LVII (September,
                            1961)' 221. The total figure was determined by subtracting re-enlistments and
                            desertions from the 208,367 known enlistments from Indiana.
               
                     wounds in two different engagements. Captured in 1864, he was
                    successful first in escaping from prison and then in stealing four hundred miles through Confederate
                    territory to the Federal lines. His postwar career included long service as a justice of the Indiana
                    Supreme Court. Moreover, Hadley wrote a narrative of his last year in the army—Seven Months a Prisoner (
                        New York
                    : Charles Scribner's Sons, 1898)—which historians consider among the
                    best of Civil War memoirs.3
            
            Since Hadley's life in general, and his military career in particular, hold a place of
                    importance in Indiana's rich heritage, the publication of a collection of his Civil War
                    letters is indeed noteworthy. Yet of equal significance are the contents of the letters themselves.
                    Hadley's letters are forthright, revealing, and perspicuous. On the one hand, they contain
                    unusual revelations of such battles as Port Republic, Second Manassas, 
                        Fredericksburg
                    , and Chancellorsville; on the other hand, they shed new light on such aspects of army
                    life as morale, camp routines, religion, disease, mail delivery, equipment, and executions. They
                    provide personal commentaries of such generals as George B. McClellan, James Shields, Joseph Hooker,
                    J. E. B. Stuart, and Thomas J. ("Stonewall") 
                        Jackson
                    . They also give vivid descriptions of such diverse topics as wartime 
                        Washington
                    , army hospitals, Virginia landscapes, fraternization between opposing soldiers, and
                    lady visitors in camp.
            The paramount interest of these letters, however, is a love story so tender as to make the collection
                    both unique and distinctly human. Before his enlistment Hadley was acquainted with Mary Jane Hill of
                    Pittsboro, Indiana, but the exact nature of their relationship is unknown. He saw her on only three
                    occasions during his military tenure. Nevertheless, through correspondence their love took root and
                    bloomed. Whereas his first letter from the army was addressed to "My dearest
                    friend" from "your truest friend," his last one before his capture opened
                    with "Beloved Mary" and closed with "Your devoted Jno." That the
                    couple married soon after Hadley's release from the army is adequate testimony of the
                    meaning and value which the letters had for the two correspondents.
            
               
                  3 One bibliographer recently judged Hadley's book to be
                        "an unusually well-written narrative" and one "not distorted by
                        intentional bitterness." E. Merton Coulter, Travels in the Confederate
                            States: A Bibliography (
                            Norman
                        , Okla., 1948), 118.
            
            
            Born October 31, 1839, on a farm in Hendricks County, Indiana, John Vestal Hadley was one of seven
                    children of Jonathan and Ara Carter Hadley.4 Although the sudden death of his
                    father in 1842 proved a many-sided loss to the large family, John, it appears, was able to attend a 
                        Quaker
                     academy in nearby 
                        Plainfield
                    . In 1859 he entered North Western Christian (now 
                        Butler
                    ) University. To defray college expenses Hadley utilized school vacations to ride
                    horseback through the country and sell books. He was a serious and capable student; yet he could not
                    escape the initial fervor that greeted the outbreak of the Civil War. On August 30, 1861, he
                    enlisted in a Hendricks County infantry unit then in the process of organization. At the time he was
                    a sinewy youth—five feet, ten inches in height and about 150 pounds in weight.5
            
            Hadley received an appointment as a corporal during the short training period at Camp Morton, which
                    had been established recently on the state fairgrounds near 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Nine other infantry companies soon joined the Hendricks County contingent and, on
                    September 13, 1861, the units entered Federal service as the Seventh Indiana Volunteer Infantry
                    Regiment. The colonel commanding the 1,046 men was Mexican War veteran Ebenezer Dumont.6 Hadley's unit was officially known as Company B.
            He passed his twenty-second birthday while the regiment campaigned in the mountains of western 
                        Virginia
                    . On April 
                  
                     4 There is some disagreement about the year of Hadley's
                            birth. The state muster rolls indicate that he was twenty-two years old or nearly twenty-two
                            at the time of his enlistment and thus imply that he was born in 1839. But in the history
                            edited by him October 31, 1840, is given as the date of his birth. John V. Hadley (ed.), History of Hendricks County, Indiana: Her People, Industries and
                            Institutions (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914), 173. His family thinks that 1839 is the proper date.
                  
                     5 Information on Hadley's wartime appearance was supplied by
                            Mrs. Jane Hadley Comer.
                  
                     6 Indiana provided five regiments for service in the Mexican War. For
                            the sake of historical clarity, its Civil War infantry units began with the Sixth Regiment.
                            Hence, the Seventh Indiana was the second state regiment mustered into service in 1861. It
                            served a three-month tour of duty and then in September was reorganized as a three-year
                            regiment. For a memoir by one of its first enlistees, see G. W. H. Kemper, "The
                            Seventh Regiment," War Papers Read before the Indiana Commandery,
                                Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1898), 117-131. Hereafter, the volume in which Kemper's article is
                            printed will be cited as Indiana War Papers. In all, 1,299 men served in
                            the Seventh Indiana. Of this total, 116 died in battle, 212 succumbed to disease, 368
                            received wounds, 26 deserted, and 27 were listed as "unaccounted for."
                            [William H. H. Terrell], Report of the Adjutant General of the State of
                            Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1865-1869), I, Document 1; Indiana at 
                                    Antietam
                                : Report of the Indiana 
                                    Antietam
                                 Commission … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1911), 92.
               
                    
                    
                  JOHN V. HASLEY
                  
                  Courtesy Mrs. Jane Hadley Comer. 
                                Iowa City
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            . (Picture probably dates from the 1890's.)
               
                     10, 1862, he was promoted to sergeant. Following participation
                    in the now-famous Valley campaign, Hadley was shot in the leg at the August 30-31 Battle of Second
                    Manassas. He momentarily fell into the hands of the Confederates but managed to escape amid the
                    confusion of battle. A lieutenant's commission came to him shortly after his release from
                    the hospital. In the fall of 1863 he joined the staff of Brigadier General James C. Rice, a native
                    of Massachusetts who had been practicing law in 
                        New York City
                     when the Civil War began.7 Until Hadley was wounded and taken
                    prisoner in the desperate fighting of the Wilderness campaign, he served as an aide to General Rice.
            Transferred successively to four Confederate prisons, Hadley eventually was confined in notorious
                    "Camp Sorghum" at 
                  Columbia,
                            South Carolina
               . On the night of November 4, 1864,
                    he escaped. Moving largely by night, and aided en route by sympathetic Negro and white citizens, he
                    made his way across the Carolinas, over the Blue Ridge Mountains, and thence to
                            
                  Knoxville, Tennessee
               , and safety. He received his army discharge January 21,
                    1865, and returned to Hen-dricks County, Indiana. There, on March 15 of that year, he married Mary
                    Jane Hill in the farm home of her father, Samuel Hill.8
            
            Hadley took his bride to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and began to study law. In June, 1866, he was admitted to the Indiana bar. He moved to 
                        Danville
                    , Indiana, and opened a law firm that was successful from the start—he
                    conceded in later years—because most of the two hundred Hadleys in Hendricks County
                    quickly employed his legal services.9 From 1869 to 1873 he served as a state
                    senator from Hendricks and 
                        Putnam
                     counties, and in 1884 he received great pressure to run for Congress on the Republican
                    ticket but declined. Two years later he was elected judge of Indiana's Nineteenth Judicial
                    District and re-elected to a second term in 1894. It was during his second term that Hadley presided
                    over the Hinshaw case, one of the most 
                  
                     7 Rice was killed in action only five days after Hadley's
                            capture. See U.S., War Department, The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of
                                the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (128 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1880-1901), Ser. I, Vol. XXXVI, pt. 1, pp. 191, 625.
                  
                     8 Samuel Hill's obituary, including much information on his
                            family, is in the 
                                Danville
                             Republican, May 13, 1897.
                  
                     9
                            
                                Plainfield
                            
                            Friday Caller, July 1, 1910.
               
                     celebrated of nineteenth-century murder trials in Indiana10 His judicious handling of this stormy and much-publicized trial played no
                    small part in Hadley's election in 1898 to the Indiana Supreme Court, on which he served
                    for twelve years. Throughout this period he maintained an active interest in the Civil War; in
                    addition to writing Seven Months a Prisoner, he lectured to assemblies of Union
                    veterans about his experiences as a prisoner and escapee.11
            
            The infirmites of old age ultimately forced Hadley to relinquish both his seat on the supreme court
                    and the major part of his law practice. Descendants remember him as a very restless person in those
                    last, empty years of retirement. He passed part of this period in completing what for him was a
                    labor of love: the voluminous History of Hendricks County, Indiana: Her People,
                        Industries and Institutions (
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1914). A common cold struck him in the late fall of 1915, and on November 17 Hadley
                    died at his 
                        Danville
                     home. His remains now lie beside those of his family in the 
                        Plainfield
                     cemetery. Many eulogies attended his passing; but few matched in fullness and
                    simplicity the statement of a newspaper editor two years before Hadley's death:
                    "Of the many Hendricks County sons who have brought honors to its people, probably none
                    have gained as firm and lasting hold upon the affections of all citizens as has Judge John V.
                        Hadley."12
            
            
               
                  10 In 1895 Rev. William E. Hinshaw was accused of the murder of his wife,
                        whose bullet-riddled body was found in the snow. A minister "loved and honored by a
                        congregation composed of some of the best and most cultured citizens of Hendricks
                        County," Hinshaw apparently had been involved in a love affair with another woman. He
                        was found guilty of murder and sentenced to life imprisonment. Hendricks County
                            Gazette, October 3, 1895.
               
                  11 One example of his speeches is John V. Hadley, "A Day with
                        Escaping Prisoners," Indiana War Pavers, 278-294.
               
                  12
                        
                            Danville
                        
                        Gazette, June 5, 1913. See also 
                            Danville
                        
                        Republican, May 29, 1913.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Beverly Va
                           
                                    Sep 21st 18611
                           
                                
                        Mollie J Hill
                        My dearest friend—under rather peculiar circumstances I am found in my
                                    tent this morning, writing to you my first letter as a Soldier. I say as a Soldier.
                                    Well I think I am this morning in a full appreciation of a Soldiers
                                    life—I look like a Soldier—I feel like a
                                    Soldier—… act like a Soldier.
                        One week ago to day we left our beloved State to encounter the stern realities of War
                                    in the Godforsaken State of Virginnia. Tuesday noon following we arrived at Webster
                                    Va a distance of about five hundred miles. It would be too much for me to attempt to
                                    describe to you the character of the country through which we passed, the things I
                                    saw, what I experienced, &c, so I will defer this until I have an
                                    opportunity to do it verbally which I hope will be at no distant day; at present
                                    suffise it to say that We arrived at Webster—remained all night
                                    … until 5 o'clock Wednesday evening when we took up our
                                    knapsacks &c in all weighing about 50 lbs & 
                              
                                            
                                    1 With but few exceptions Hadley's original
                                                letters have been followed faithfully in this transcription. As a
                                                convenience to the reader, the editor has paragraphed the letters since
                                                many of them contained only one long paragraph. Because of limitations
                                                of space, brief direct quotations have not been placed in separate
                                                paragraphs. Some modifications have been made in Hadley's
                                                paragraphing. The editor has also made minor changes in the spacing of
                                                headings, salutations, and closings, but he has retained the punctuation
                                                originally used in these portions of the letters.
                                            Superior letters have been brought down to the line. Incorrect spellings
                                                have been retained and have not been indicated by either a [sic] or a correction except for proper names and for words
                                                which might otherwise be misunderstood. Because it is often difficult to
                                                distinguish between the letter "o" and the letter
                                                "e" as written by Hadley, the editor has assumed that
                                                the words "for" and "
                                                    Jackson
                                                " were both spelled with an "o."
                                                Where words have been marked over, that version has been selected which
                                                was apparently Hadley's later choice. Although the editor has
                                                omitted repetitions that are obviously unintentional, all other
                                                deletions have been indicated by ellipses. If a deleted portion would
                                                probably have comprised at least a paragraph in this transcription, a
                                                line of ellipsis marks has been given.
                                            Commas have been supplied in series and periods at the end of what appear
                                                clearly to be sentences. Since Hadley usually placed periods after
                                                rather than before closing quotation marks, this practice has been
                                                followed where periods have been supplied at the end of quotations. If a
                                                complete sentence ended with a dash, a period has been either retained
                                                or supplied. Question marks have been inserted in appropriate places
                                                whether or not they apppeared in the original. In doubtful or marginal
                                                situations, where the original is not clearly legible, modern practice
                                                has been followed in the choice between commas and periods and between
                                                capital and lower-case letters. Sometimes, especially after
                                                abbreviations, the editor has used periods even though commas appear in
                                                the original.
                                        
                           
                                    
                                    
                              VIRGINIA DURING
                                            THE CIVIL WAR
                                            Reproduced from Battles and Leaders of the Civil War, ed.
                                            by Robert Underwood Johnson and Clarence Clough Buel (4 vols., 
                                                New York
                                            . 1884-1888). I, 113.
                           
                                     started to the support of [Brigadier] Gen.
                                    [Joseph J.] Reynolds at Cheat Mount.2 We have completed fifty
                                    miles … are stopping to day to recruit.
                        We were last eve, pretty badly fatigued. Many of the boys were obliged to take
                                    waggons as "give outs" … I must say that there was but
                                    two things that kept me from making the same resort; namely the frothy tongues
                                    … witty expressions of my comrads. One would say that a man must think a
                                    d-n sight of his country to suffer this way to defend it; another would
                                    d—n the Rebells for bringing all this upon us …c. We are now
                                    within 18 miles of Reynolds … will join him tomorrow.
                        Mollie I desired to see you again before I left the State—tis sadness for
                                    me I never. I had a kind word to whisper in your ear—a secret tale to
                                    tell you—a keepsake to deliver. But having formerly sacrificed all my
                                    liberty to the demands of my country, I was forced away before an opportunity
                                    afforded itself. Mollie I desired your miniture—not that I need any
                                    artificial means to keep you constantly before me, but it would be some
                                    gratification in the dull hours of camp to look upon the outlines of one whose
                                    merits I so greatly admire.
                        Mollie the greatest displeasure we have to encounter, is the ignorance in which we
                                    are enveloped. No news whatever have reached us since we left 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . If they are fighting in other parts like fury we know nothing about
                                    it, but what is worse—is that if the[y] should come to a reconcilliation
                                    of our present troubles I am affraid we should never hear it in this part of the
                                    world.
                        Mollie you will please excuse this unbroken letter3 as I have but
                                    one hour to write in … am obliged to write home. I have simply written
                                    this to give you my whereabouts. When you return to 
                                        Richmond
                                     [Indiana] you will please remember me to your friend Mattie Jeffries.
                        Mollie as it seams almost beyond possibility for me to receive your miniture at a
                                    distance of 600 miles—you will please send me a braid of your hair at
                                    least if it should be consistent with your feelings to confer such a favor upon an
                                    humble Soldier. Mollie I must close although I have much 
                              
                                 2 Reynolds had been a West Point graduate in the same
                                            class as Grant and a businessman in 
                                                Lafayette
                                            , Indiana, at the outbreak of the Civil War. [Orville Thomson],
                                                From Philippi to 
                                                    Appomattox
                                                : Narrative of the Seventh Indiana Infantry in the War for
                                                the Union (n.p., n.d.), 59. Hereafter this work will be cited as
                                            Thomson, Seventh Indiana.
                              
                              
                                 3 As mentioned in footnote 1, many of
                                            Hadley's letters are unbroken. The editor has paragraphed them for
                                            the convenience of the reader.
                           
                                     more to write—many things to tell
                                    you—but my time is half up … I must remember anxious friends
                                    at home. For the present receive my kindest wishes, … believe me your
                                    t[r]uest friend.
                        
                                    J.V.H
                                
                        Direct your letter to Webster Va In care of Capt W. C. Banta 7th Reg Ind
                                Vol
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Elkwater Va
                           
                                    Oct 25/61
                                
                        Miss Mollie Hill
                        My dear lady—four days have I tried unsuccessfully to write you
                                    … now the fifth attempt is upon me. Since the 1st day of this month, four
                                    long weeks have I been sick, … this day finds me almost wholy unfit for
                                    letter writing, but I feel that writing to you is a chief duty, … one
                                    which I am no longer willing to postpone.
                        Your letter was received last Sun. … let me assure you that no letter ever
                                    made a glader heart. It was to me like a gentle noon-day shower is to [a] tender
                                    plant which grows pale for the want of some nourishment.
                        I have been sick ever since our fight at Green Briar [Brier].4
                                    Was taken on the first night of our march to attact the enemy, was carried the 2d
                                    day in a waggon as far [as] Camp Kimbal[l] where we staid til 12 o'clock
                                    that night.5 Night came … we had no place to sleep. I
                                    could do no better than wrap my blanket around me … lay down by the side
                                    of an old pine log upon some well soaked moss, for it had been raining all day. At
                                    midnight we were up … on our march for Green Briar a distance of 15
                                    mile[s]. We marched it through mud … rain, went double quick four miles,
                                    fought six hours … returned to Camp Kimbal all in one day, …
                                    what is more-all done without either breakfast … dinner. When we returned
                                    to Camp Kimbal I was as near dead from exhaustion as I [ever] was. Drank a cup of
                                    coffee—ate a cracker, again 
                              
                                 4 Hadley's reference was to an October 3,
                                            1861, battle near Green-brier River, 
                                                Virginia
                                            . Total Federal casualties were 8 killed and 35 wounded;
                                            Confederate losses were 6 killed, 33 wounded, and 13 missing. The Seventh
                                            Indiana had 8 men, including an officer, wounded. The regiment's
                                            worst loss, however, was its flag, which the colorbearer negligently left on
                                            the field. U.S., War Department, The War of the Rebellion: A
                                                Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate
                                            Armies (128 vols., 
                                                Washington
                                            , 1880-1901), Ser. I, Vol. V, 223, 229; Boyd B. Stutler,
                                            "The Battle of Greenbrier River" (manuscript in the
                                            possession of the editor), 5. Hereafter The War of the
                                                Rebellion will be cited as Official Records.
                              
                              
                                 5 Camp Kimball was named in honor of Colonel (later
                                            Brigadier General) Nathan Kimball, who at that time commanded the Fourteenth
                                            Indiana.
                           
                                     to my mossy bed, … enjoyed such a
                                    nights' sleep as is known to none but the exhausted Soldier. Returned next
                                    day to our quarters sick, … have remained so to this day but think I will
                                    be able for duty next week.
                        I have learned as also you have learned, through a correspondent of the 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     Times, that at the fight aluded to above the 7th Reg. ran …
                                    would not be rallied.6 Mollie I hope you did not believe, I hope
                                    the country did not believe it. I have but a few words to [say] in regard to it. But
                                    I want you to understand that I emphatically deny the charge. I say that any man who
                                    will so shamefully misrepresent Soldiers fellow soldiers—raw recruits
                                    without any experience either in drill or marching—I say that any
                                    Northern man who will treat men fighting for his own interests in this manner; is
                                    too mean to command the sympathies of Angels, or the admiration of Devils,
                                    … there is none other than an envious Buckeye that could have been found
                                    to do it.—May the judge of man's misgivings deal gently with
                                    him.
                        Well you ask what did the 7th do—well something as follows [:] coming upon
                                    the field it was the rear Reg. with one or two exceptions. Before the first charge
                                    of the musketry was over, which did not last more than a half an hour, the 7th was
                                    in front … took the last fire—the column retiring into
                                    ambush—the 7th was the last to enter the bushes.—When the
                                    General [Reynolds] commanded the bayonette it was as
                                    follows—"7th take the lead". The 7th received the
                                    comand with a tremendeous yell … started off on a double quick. It is
                                    needless for me to tell you that we being the advanced Reg. that the enemy directed
                                    his batteries at us … let me assure you, that grape shot, Canon-balls,
                                    … canister shot fell among us thick as hail for about one
                                    hour—many were hit but none seriously injured in our company. All the
                                    running that was done by the 7th was most truly toward the enemy. The correspondent
                                    modestly neglected the fact that the 24 [th] Ohio Reg. possitively refused to go on
                                    the charge.7
                        
                        Mollie I send you a ring which idle hours have manufactured from the root of a 
                                        Laurel
                                     growing in our camp. I send it to you as a trifling relic of our
                                    encampment in the 
                              
                                 6 Several Confederate reports of the Greenbrier fight
                                            refer to Federals retreating "rapidly and in disorder" or
                                            "in the wildest confusion" from the field. Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. V, 224, 232-233, 235. Federal
                                            reports do not mention such a stampede.
                              
                                 7 See Whitelaw Reid, Ohio in the War: Her
                                                Statesmen, Generals and Soldiers (2 vols., 
                                                Cincinnati
                                            , 1868), II, 171.
                           
                                     miserable Pass of Cheat Mountain. Mollie a
                                    thousand times have I thought of those nice cakes … pies you brough[t] us
                                    at Camp Morton. Oh if I had but a pice of them now I think it would cure me in 15
                                    minutes.
                        Bob sends his love to you … your friend Mattie Jeffries also give her
                                    mine. Hoping to enjoy with you long friendship … that too of the truest
                                    nature, I subscribe myself for the present your truest friend
                        
                                    J.V.H
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Elkwater Valley Va.
                           
                                    Nov 5/61
                                
                        My dear friend Mary—the other mail my heart was made glad by the reception
                                    of another letter from you. Although it was brief I could fully recognize in it the
                                    writer. It seems, however, that you were a little reluctant in writing to me the
                                    second time without an answer, something which I think you should not have been. I
                                    have writen you two letters without an answer, even in a country where mail matter
                                    was seldom misplaced; nor did I think the act any thing criminal. … it is
                                    really a matter of chance that I did receive your letter directed to Webster.
                        Mary you stated in your last that your friend Mattie had failed to return to college
                                    this year, … that you were there almost alone. How I would like to drop
                                    into the parlor some evening … call for my Hendricks Co cousin.8 How I would like to sit beside her upon the sopha …
                                    tell her of my experience … observations, while trying to serve my
                                    country. How I would lik[e] to talk to her of the sublime scenery, the lofty
                                    mountains, the dashing streams, … of the benighted inhabitants of Western 
                                        Virginia
                                    . How I would like to tell her of what I saw, … felt,
                                    … know of the Green Briar fight. The booming of the cannon, the roaring
                                    of musketry, the hissing of balls, the dying words of soldiers, the shouts of the
                                    combatants, I think would not fail to command her attention.
                        But at present such happiness is denied. How long it shall be the case is beyond my
                                    conceptions. But if our rulers should forget their madness, if the common people
                                    should lay aside their excitement … learn to look reason in the face, if
                                    the Constitution … Union should again be declared, then I would hope to
                                    enjoy what I have enjoyed with her, at least once more ere I die. Such a change in
                                    our beloved country 
                              
                                 8 The Hadleys and Hills were distantly related by
                                            marriage.
                           
                                     may be soon … it may be late. It may
                                    be that the light of another moon will never behold us in this unhappy confusion,
                                    … again, the roses may drop from your cheeks … gray hairs be
                                    given you for auburn—it may be that my musket will become heavy with old
                                    age, … my sword wasted from much grinding—before that peace is
                                    again found by a maddened people.
                        Mary when I last wrote you I believe I stated that I had been sick, … I am
                                    happy to inform you now that I have again gained my strength … am now
                                    eating double rations in order to get my share from Uncle Sam' bounty.
                        Hoping to hear from you soon I subscribe myself as ever
                        
                                    Your most obliging friend
                                    J.V.H
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              On board the Steamer Cricket
                           
                                    Dec 10th/619
                           
                                
                        Miss Mary J Hill—Mollie: I am now nearing Cincinnatti bound for home. I am
                                    on furlow … accompaning home A. J. Adams … R. P. Parker.10 Adams has been very sick but is getting better. Bob is now
                                    very low … his recovery is very doubtful. He has the Typhoid fever. Our
                                    Army Surgeon told me he could never get well but I hope he did not know.
                        I expect to reach home in the morning where I hope to remain 30 or 60 days. Then I
                                    shall rejoin my regiment which is now at Romney. I would be much pleased to see you
                                    while at home. If you should spend your Christmas … New Years at your
                                    fathers', I shall try … avail myself of the pleasure…
                                    . Address your next to 
                                        Plainfield
                                    . I can write no more at present; we approach our landing.-Excuse this
                                    note-write soon … believe [me] Yours
                        
                                    &c J.V.H.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  9 Since it is so badly faded as to be nearly illegible, Hadley's
                        letter to Mollie, from Elkwater Valley, 
                            Virginia
                        , dated November 24, 1861, has been omitted.
               
                  10 Private Andrew J. Adams, of Brownsburg, Indiana, was discharged from
                        the army in June, 1862. Robert P. Parker, of Pittsboro, Indiana, eventual became a lieutenant in
                        the Fourth U.S. Colored Infantry; he is tie "Bob" to whom Hadley refers in
                        these letters. Thomson, Seventh Indiana, v, vi. The state muster rolls confirm
                        Hadley's spelling of Parker's name although Thomson gives it as
                        "Parkes." Hereafter, unless otherwise indicated, all the
                        towns mentioned in footnote explanations are in Indiana.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Pattisons Creek Va.
                           
                                    Feb 4/62
                                
                        Amiable friend
                        Slowly … sadly has the time dragged by since I left you at 
                                        Richmond
                                     [Indiana]. Being alone in the cars from Belair to this place I had an
                                    excellent opportunity to meditate. I thought of home … those I left. Of
                                    those I saw on the road … of those whom I expected to see in camp.
                                    Believe me, dear friend, I am truly sensible of the honor of the warm reception you
                                    [cave?] me … feel myself deeply penetrated with love …
                                    gratitude for the kindness you manifested for me.
                        I reached my destination the day after I left you. Just before We reached New Creat
                                    [Newcreek] the camp there was thrown into the greatest consternation. The pickets
                                    came running in … reported a large rebel force in the immediate
                                    neighborhood … as the train passed through the entire camp stood in line
                                    of battle waiting for an engagement. But the report afterwards proved to be entirely
                                    false.
                        We arraved at 
                                        Cumberland
                                     11 o'clock P.M. … I found that place as all others
                                    along the line literally beseiged with opulett [opulent?] aristocracy. Evry Hotel,
                                    … private house seemed to be filled to overflowing with the presence of
                                    these dignitaries, … it was after renewed efforts that I succeeded in
                                    getting even a lounge to pass the night upon. Next morning it was very appaling to
                                    look upon the frown [s] … sullen countenances of Red tape. It was very
                                    terifying. I thought [Major General Thomas J. ("Stonewall")] 
                                        Jackson
                                     the Rebel Gen. who has been driving them about some since I left had
                                    had a powerful effect on the good nature of our Generals.11 But
                                    after considerable inquiry I divined the true cause of their dejection. [Brigadier]
                                    Gen. [Frederick W.] Lander the commander of the division here, had the day previous
                                    isued an order closing evry saloon in town.12 And it was truly
                                    amusing to observe how these thirsty Nabobs would gather about the bars just like so
                                    many famishing brutes about an enclosed pool.
                        
                           
                              11
                                        
                                            Jackson
                                         had just waged a successful campaign against nearby Romney and 
                                            Bath
                                         in western 
                                            Virginia
                                        .
                           
                              12 For other stringent measures by Lander, see Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. V, 1044. Personal comments on
                                        Lander himself are in G. W. H. Kemper, "The Seventh Regiment,"
                                            War Papers Read before the Indiana Commandery, Military Order
                                            of the Loyal Legion of the 
                                                United States
                                            
                               (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1898), 123-124; Thomson, Seventh Indiana, 75,
                                        78-79. Hereafter, the volume in which Kemper's article is printed will
                                        be cited as Indiana War Papers.
                           
                        
                        
                        When I reached Camp Kell[e]y13 the name of ours, I was met by
                                    Mess No 1. … after a hearty shake hands we fell into line … I
                                    was escorted to my new quarters. I expected to find a Paradise of a camp, but I was
                                    very disagreeably surprised. Mud! Mud! Mud! This is no name for it. Elk Water is
                                    effecually eclipsed in this respect. Otherwise than this it is a beautiful place
                                    … was thickly settled before the approach of our army… .
                        Mollie I never had a better time on a spree than I have had since I reached camp. You
                                    would have thought me happy if you had seen me strolling up the Rail-Road with half
                                    of Comp[any] B. listening to my fairy tales. I told them of their sweethearts at
                                    home … delivered them many minatures which had been given me to carry.
                                    The night following my advent to camp[,] Mess No 1 sang many songs for my benefit
                                    … we closed the entertainment with a soldiers dance—a jolly
                                    time it was. My health since I arrived has been exceeding good I … [sic] hope it will remain so. It snows very hard to day. The snow
                                    is now 4 inches deep … a fair prospect to be four inches deeper. You will
                                    write soon … believe me as Your dear friend
                        
                                    John
                                
                        Mollie J Hill
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Lander Va
                           
                                    Feb 18/62
                                
                        Mary—since I last wrote you I have seen considerable soldiering. On the
                                    fourt[h] inst we received marching orders with three days rations amp; to leave evry
                                    thing behind but our gun, knapsacks, canteens, forty rounds of amunition, amp; one
                                    blanket which was to weigh no more [than] three lbs. When we left the ground was
                                    four inches deep in snow nor was it reduced while we were out.
                        Our destination was undoubtedly to attact Romney amp; our brigade was sent fifteen
                                    miles to the rear to cut off their retreat. It was our intention to bag 
                                        Jackson
                                     amp; his forces 15000 strong but before we reached the nest the bird as
                                    usual had flown. It was the severest march that we have ever made. The weather was
                                    desperately cold amp; the snow made the walking very slavish. Our plans against
                                    Romney 
                              
                                 13 This bivouac was named for Brigadier General
                                            Benjamin F. Kelley, who commanded what was known as the "Railroad
                                            District" of western 
                                                Virginia
                                            . Official Records, Ser. I, vol. v,
                                        691.
                           
                                     having failed others were at once instigated
                                    amp; we were withheld from camp.
                        At the close of the second day our rations gave out amp; a supply was impossible to
                                    obtain. For 24 long hours we were without a single bite to eat, when our Col [James
                                        Gavin]14 came riding among us amp; informed [the] Reg. that
                                    they were permited to scour the country over amp; whatever they could find fit to
                                    eat to bring in to camp. There was at once a general stampede. In less than 15
                                    minutes boys were seen with guns in their hands scaling the mountains in evry
                                    direction in quest of prey. An hour had elapsed when they came flocking in with a
                                    perfect cargo of meat such as beef, pork, amp; muten. But alas there was not a grain
                                    of salt in [the] Reg. Yet the demands of nature were not to be satisfied with the
                                    idea of no salt. We tore the meat into peices, laid it in the fire, covered it up
                                    with ashes, amp; when it was but partly cooked, we took it out amp; devoured it as
                                    greedily as starving Wolves.
                        I cannot give you the particulars of our march, it would be too tedious. Suffice it
                                    to say that we were roaming through the mountains for eleven long amp; desperately
                                    cold days amp; slept when we did sleep, in natures bed-rooms on her softest cots of
                                    snow amp; pine brush, wraped in a single blanket. Our "grub" too
                                    was such as evry one can eat but such as no one likes to eat. We were hunting the
                                    enemy but they being so well acquainted with evry mountain defile, that they escaped
                                    us in evry instance but one. Our cavelry overtook a force of 600 one day-attact
                                    them-took 90 prisoneers—guns …c amp; among them was one Col,
                                    three or four Capts, half dozzen Lieuts, 6 Ordely sergts.15
                        
                        We are now encampt about 3 miles to the right of Pawpaw Tunnel a point on the B. amp;
                                    O. R.R. 30 miles S.E. of 
                                        Cumberland
                                    . The probabilities are that we may remain here some time unless Gen. 
                                        Jackson
                                     should make other moves. We were moving on to 
                                        Winchester
                                    , but [Major] Gen. [George B.] McClelen [McClellan] telegraphed to Gen
                                    Lander, our commander, to expose his division no farther, but take them 
                              
                                 14 Gavin, a native of 
                                                Greensburg
                                            , had assumed command of the regiment on November 3, 1861. For
                                            praise of this competent officer, see ibid., Vol. XII, pt.
                                            1, pp. 697, 700, Vol. XXI, 464.
                              
                                 15 At Bloomery Gap, 
                                                Virginia
                                            , on February 14, 1862, a body of 400 Federal cavalry (estimated
                                            by the enemy at "10,000 strong") scattered a Confederate
                                            force. In the process it "ran down and caught 17 commissioned
                                            officers." Confederate losses were 13 killed and 65 captured;
                                            Federal casualties were 11 killed and several wounded. Ibid., Vol. V, 405-407.
                           
                                     to camp.16 This is a pretty
                                    good evidence that we will remain here at least for the winter. amp; I should not be
                                    at all surprised if we left this camp for Indiana.
                        I hope [in] the next letter I write you I may be able to tell you that this unnatural
                                    warfare is closing. I think I can discern in the dim distanc[e] the dawn of that
                                    happy morning when we may return home amp; make glad the hearts of anxious friends.
                                    I look forward with a burning anxiety to the day we may be able to grasp our friends
                                    warmly by the hand amp; tell them that our country is still saved, that the old
                                    stars amp; stripes again float in evry breese between the two great waters, that the
                                    Eagle the proud bird of our nationality sits perched on evry mountain between the St
                                    Larence amp; Gulf of 
                                        Mexico
                                    —I salute you.
                        
                                    J.V.H.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of the Potomac
                           
                                    March 8th/62
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        My dear girl—it is again Sunday and I have again the high pleasure of
                                    writing you another letter. While this is the only means I have of communicating
                                    with you, my dear girl, I thank God and the man that invented the art of telling the
                                    heart's story upon paper for if it were not for this happy method of
                                    speaking with you, this absent army life of mine would be miserable indeed. How
                                    kind, and welcome was your last and what a generous spirit it breathed. Many times
                                    when duty seems hard and prospects discouraging I am almost ready to accede to
                                    anything to end the war, but one kind word from you is sufficient to renerve my arm
                                    and establish me firm in my purpose to see it through. And many times my heart
                                    yearns fervently for its mate yet leaning upon the staff of hope it strides onward
                                    to its destiny.
                        I have just returned to camp from a three days Picket Duty. I was this time four
                                    miles from Camp on the Out Post and had the honor of commanding one mile of our
                                    front. It was a relief to me to get so far away from Camp—from the din
                                    and poisen of a massed Army and as I stood upon a high hill, filled again with
                                    rapture my lungs, with pure, unadulterated country air. And as I gazed before me and
                                    saw the wandering pig and grazing cow and heard the crowing 
                              
                                 16 McClellan's order to Lander is in ibid., 722.
                           
                                     fowl and barking dog my rustic nature returned
                                    in all its wildness. Although war was at evry door and evry fireside crowded with
                                    curious soldiers still there was among the citizens a rustic innocence and
                                    independence which seemed to breath forth happiness.
                        We have had very bad weather here for a month and there is now much mud and water on
                                    the ground. It would be impossible for us to move from here at present. The roads
                                    are so bad. The Rebs are s[t]ill across the river in some force but I know not how
                                    strong. But if they were not a thousand there we could not move them at present.
                        Capt [William C.] Banta left here yesterday to join his better half at Clayton
                                    Indiana for 20 days.17 Jim Adams will probably turn up in
                                    Pittsboro some of these times.18 I think he will get a Furlough
                                    soon. I hope he may. He wants to see mother badly. I dont blame him… .
                                    Mrs. Col [James] Gavin, Mrs Dr [George W.] New, and other ladies are visiting our
                                    Reg. I am your devoted
                        
                                    J. Vestal Hadley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Strausburg [Strasburg]
                           
                                    Mar 31/62
                                
                        Miss Mollie J. Hill
                        Dear friend—Your letter was received last night amp; it was a long
                                    expected one too. Two weeks, perhaps, before you left 
                                        Richmond
                                     [Indiana] I received a letter from you requesting that I should write
                                    again before you left there. Without an hour's delay I answer [ed] it but
                                    perhaps it did not get to 
                                        Richmond
                                     until after you had left if it ever did. I would have written you long
                                    since if I had had an opportunity, but I have had none, in consequence of constant
                                    marching. I have writen but one letter in three weeks amp; that one home.
                        Last Sunday the 23 inst, as you shall have heard ere this reaches you, we had a
                                    severe fight. We met Gen. 
                                        Jackson
                                     with 11 Reg's fought him two hours amp; forty minutes hand to
                                    hand, whiped him—ran him [and] took some cannon—250 prisoners,
                                    killed 500, wounded 1000 but suffered considerable ourselves.19
                                    Among the first that fell on the field while 
                              
                                 17 Banta, a native of 
                                                Danville
                                            , became a major of the Seventh Indiana on March 12, 1863, and a
                                            lieutenant colonel the next month. [William H. H. Terrell], Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1865-1869), II, 40.
                              
                                 18 Adams, another native of 
                                                Danville
                                            , was promoted to second lieutenant at the same time that Banta
                                            became a major. Apparently Andrew Luke replaced Banta as captain, Hadley
                                            replaced Luke as first lieutenant, and Adams replaced Hadley as second
                                            lieutenant. Ibid., 42.
                              
                                 19 Hadley here refers to the bitterly contested fight
                                            at Kernstown, 
                                                Virginia
                                            , between the troops of Major General
                                            "Stonewall" 
                                                Jackson
                                            
                              
                           
                                     bravely acting his part was cousin E. B.
                                    Hamlet. Without a groan he requested his friends to bear him off the field which
                                    they did. He is still living but with little or no hopes of recovery.20
                        
                        For eight long days we have been skirmishing with the enemy amp; it is now expected
                                    that tomorrow's sun will bring about some final result. We have in our
                                    haversacks three days rations, a full supply of amunition, amp; [are] prepared to
                                    start at any moment for the field. Before this letter reaches you I have no doubt
                                    but that you shall have seen our fortune amp; I hope it may be a good one. You ask
                                    me Mary if we cannot whip the our [sic] enemies against May or
                                    June. Well, Mary, I hope amp; believe we can amp; earnestly pray God to aid us in
                                    its accomplishment. There is much to do yet but if all troops keep stiring as we
                                    have stired for the last three weeks I think there is no doubt but what it can be
                                    done.
                        Mary you will not expect me to write long or frequent letters while duties are so
                                    heavy amp; I believe that the goodness of your heart will not suffer you to think me
                                    unfaithful should there be a time when I was long in writing for rest assured that I
                                    will write at evry opportunity whether I have answers from you or not (provided you
                                    do no[t] request otherwise) amp; I hope you will do the same.
                        There is nothing that so nerves my arm amp; strengthens my will as kind words from
                                    your sex. Your excellent letter of the 16th was to me like an Angel breat[h]ing a
                                    new life into desponding humanity. How my heart burned with rapture when I broke the
                                    seal amp; beheld at the bottom the signature "Mollie." For in that
                                    name I believe that I could recognize a friend who is true, amp; one that feels a
                                    heart throb when she considers the situation of a soldier. There is no one that can
                                    appreciate friendship like a soldier. When marched 30 amp; 40 miles a day through
                                    mud amp; rain, sleep out of nights without blankets, amp; on half rations, it makes
                                    him sometimes think that there is no friendship for him or a single sympathy to
                                    lighten his burden.
                        
                           and Brigadier General James Shields. The Seventh Indiana, with 716 men
                                        reported present for duty, lost 7 killed, 33 wounded, and 9 missing. Total
                                        Federal casualties were 118 killed, 450 wounded, and 22 missing as opposed to
                                        Confederate losses of 80 killed, 375 wounded, and 263 missing. Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XII, pt. 1, pp. 346-347, 376, 384, pt.
                                        3, p. 5.
                           
                              20 Corporal Egbert B. Hamlet died April 1, 1862, of wounds
                                        received at Kernstown, 
                                            Virginia
                                        . He was a native of Brownsburg. Terrell, Report of the
                                            Adjutant General, IV, 93.
                        
                        
                        Ordely [Luther E.] Davis amp; John Ridgeway [Ridgway]21 comes
                                    home immediately on account of their wounds. They will bear this letter perhaps as
                                    far as 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . Direct your next to 
                                        Winchester
                                     Va. though we are 25 miles south of there. I remain as ever your
                                    affect. Friend
                        
                                    J V Hadley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Rockingham 4 miles South [of] New Market Va
                           
                                    May 1st/62
                                
                        Well Mary why dont I get a letter? I cant accuse you of unfaithfulness yet I must own
                                    that I have become somewhat impatient about a letter… . We have had but
                                    one mail in two week[s]. Notwithstanding we are in the most beautiful Valley of Va.
                                    amp; in fact it cannot be surpassed by any in the world. Yet letters, the gladning
                                    visitors of a soldier, found us oftener in the dark dismal mountains of Western Va.
                                    than they do here. I say that there is not a more beautiful Valley in the world than
                                    the one we now occupy. Well there cannot be.
                        Had I not been taught that the Garden of Eden was somewhere in the old World I would
                                    have to affirm that it was here. My conseptions of Eden are almost realized here.
                                    The fruits, the flowers, the singing birds, amp; the sinful pair are here. When we
                                    came into this place the sitizens were eaqually as afraid of us as Adam amp; Eve
                                    were of the Angel of the Lord. The sword was also here, flaming with wrath yet it
                                    differed a little from the historic one, as its courage was not sufficient to keep
                                    the invader out.
                        The day following our arrival here I was called out on picket Duty. I found my post,
                                    per chance to be at the fork of two roads, near which was a large two story house
                                    which with its surroundings bore the marks of wealth. I pondered about the old shop
                                    which was our quarters for some time frequently observing the house to see if I
                                    could discover an occupant. One of the doors stood ajar yet I could see no one
                                    inside amp; all the evidence that I had that any one had lately lived there was the
                                    outpouring of some half dozzen little black urchins from some mean huts that stood
                                    hard by. I determined to visit the house amp; as I approached the blacks came
                                    running to meet me with great eagnerness by dozzens (for by the way I find that they
                                    have no peculiar dislike for Yankees down here).
                        
                           
                              21 First Sergeant Davis died of illness October 6, 1862;
                                        Private Ridgway was mustered out with the regiment. Thomson, Seventh Indiana, v, viii.
                        
                        
                        I asked one sable miss where her Master amp; Mrs were. She answered me
                                    "Massa am gone down to Rockbridge 'wid de black
                                    boys.'' Why did he take them there says I. "Cause Gen 
                                        Jackson
                                     tell him that you would kill him amp; de boys too". Well where
                                    is your Mrs? "Missa in de house dont hurt her" she pittifully
                                    requested. I approached the door which was now closed, stood upon the steps, amp;
                                    knocked without receiving any response. I knocked again amp; this time I heard
                                    within a tremulous voice say come in. I opened the door, walked in—spoke
                                    to the inmates as politely as possible, amp; took a seat. The family consisted of an
                                    old lady amp; her granddaughter of 16 summers.
                        The old woman was nearly frightened to death amp; it was a long time before I could
                                    convince her that we came to protect her amp; her property rather than destroy them,
                                    before I left we entered freely into conversation amp; I found that nearly all her
                                    relatives lived in Indiana amp; that I was as well acquainted with one of her
                                    nephews as I am with any body. He was a schoolmate—a gay boy amp; killed
                                    in the battle of Alegania. I stayd on that post 24 hours amp; spent much of my time
                                    with this family. The old lady had one of her black girl[s] to kill amp; bake us two
                                    fine hens, furnished us with bread amp; milk, amp; in evry way treated us with great
                                    hospitality.
                        The grand daughter was quite modest, yet seemed to behold nothing terrible in the
                                    appearance of a Yankee. She was quite free to talk amp; put herself to no extra
                                    trouble to shun my presence. If you know my nature, you know that, as the tender
                                    words flowed from her lips, I did not reply crabbidly. She amp; the old lady too
                                    complained much about the society here amp; when I told them that they should
                                    emigrate to Indiana where evry young man is a lord amp; evry young girl a lady her
                                    young eyes seemed to sparkle with the idea.
                        We are now 50 miles below 
                                        Winchester
                                     amp; with some prospects of remaining here for a[t] least a week yet.
                                    We are waiting for supplies when it is said this it is said that this Division will
                                    move against 
                                        Richmond
                                    . We are drawing 90 days clothing-none will accompany us futher into
                                    Dixie. Within the last two days I have drawn at least $200 worth of
                                    clothing for our company amp; it is not yet supplied.
                        I close—write soon & believe me as ever your best friend &
                                    wisher
                        
                                    J. V. Hadley
                                
                         Miss Mollie J Hill
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              4 miles South New Market Va.
                           
                                    May 10th/62
                                
                        Miss Mollie J Hill
                        My dear lady—your most excellent letter of the 1st is at hand amp;
                                    although it has not been in my possession more than an hour it has been read no less
                                    than a half dozzen times amp; yet there are many charms undiscovered that will be
                                    brought out by other readings. Many sluggish weeks were worn away, in looking for a
                                    letter from you but my confidence was unwavering in its coming. More than a thousand
                                    times have I drawn from my left side pocket the little case that
                                    contains the expression of my l___e amp; so often could I behold in it nothing but
                                    goodness of heart amp; unwavering fidelity. I could not be cruel enough to believe
                                    that you had either forgotten amp; forsaken the one to whom you had promised long
                                    friendship.
                        Mary I might tell you a long war story but that subject has become old amp; so
                                    monotonous that I dont think it can interest you amp; the few moments that I have to
                                    write you this evening should be of some other character. I will just state however
                                    that for the last ten days we have been expecting a fight daily but as yet it has
                                    not been realized. Nor do I now ever expect to fire my musket again in Western Va.
                        In the last ten days refered to we advanced twelve miles south of this place. The
                                    rebel 
                                        Jackson
                                     with 25000 men came against our front amp; similtaneous with him did
                                    Euvil [Brigadier General Richard S. Ewell] (rebel) advance on the other side of the
                                    Blue Ridge with 15,000 to get in our rear. This was a wise move in them amp; would
                                    have advanced their interests greatly in this Valley had they succeeded in their
                                    plans. But [Brigadier] Gen. [James] Shields with his Irish wit was sharp enough for
                                    them. He sent a force to the mountain gap—met the rebels—drove
                                    them back [and] took some prisoners—killed some—…
                                    wonderfully frightened others. We fell back twelve miles to our present position
                                    which is naturally strong amp; prepared to again receive 
                                        Jackson
                                     amp; his stone Wall brigade.22 He followed us
                                    within five miles of our lines amp; then wisely concluded that it might be a little
                                    unsafe to come further—halted amp; semmes to be perfectly satisfied.
                        I said a moment ago that I never expected to fire my musket again in Western Va. Well
                                    I dont. We have marching 
                              
                                 22 The famous Stonewall Brigade was only one segment
                                            of 
                                                Jackson
                                            's army. It took no active part in the Battle of
                                            McDowell in 
                                                Virginia
                                            . For a history of this most noted of Confederate units, see
                                            James I. Robertson, Jr., The Stonewall Brigade (
                                                Baton Rouge
                                            , La., 1963).
                           
                                     orders for 
                                        Richmond
                                     to take effect at 6 o'clock tomorrow morning. amp; should they
                                    not be countermanded my next letter will be dated before the fated metropolis of the
                                    strugling Confedercy. The march is one of more than a hundred
                                    miles—… it is to be made without any delay. We take with [us]
                                    ten days Rations—march 18 miles a day amp; carry our knapsacks. It is a
                                    severe undertaking, but such is war. The weather is very warm amp; roads very dusty
                                    amp; I expect I would find it as nice lounging about college as playing Soldier in
                                    Va.
                        The Authorities, too, have practised a great imposition upon us. They yesterday took
                                    our tents from us amp; the only shelter we now have to protect us from the pelting
                                    storm amp; the parching rays of the Sun, is the great tent sheet of Heaven. There
                                    was much disaffection among the boys on giving them up, but what could we effect
                                    when there is glittering steel amp; deathly bullets ready to force us to any
                                    measure. I understand that owing to the delicate characters of the Eastern troops
                                    that they will be permited to keep their tents. If I find it so I shall console
                                    myself with the thought that there is a just God that weighs evrything in a
                                    ballance, amp; that this deed will receive from him its just retribution.
                        I must now close my last letter in Western Va. The night draws nigh amp; Dress Parade
                                    is at hand. Direct your letters as usual until you hear from me
                                    again—write soon amp; often. I salute you—Jno V Hadley
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Lurea [Luray] Va.
                           
                                    June 13th/62
                                
                        Miss Mollie J Hill
                        My dear lady—it has been a long time since I wrote you amp; a longer time
                                    since I heard from you… .
                        Since I last wrote you I with the rest of Shields' Division have marched
                                    between 400 amp; 500 miles.—Have not been in camp two days at a time
                                    since the 10th of May. On the 10th of May we left Harrisonburg, went by way of
                                    Strausburg, Middl[e]town, Front Royal, Warrenton, to Fred[e]ricksburg. Then from
                                    Fredricksburg by way of Manassas, Haymarket, Rector town again to Front Royal.
                                    Arriving at the latter place 
                                        Jackson
                                     was at 
                                        Winchester
                                    .
                        Our brigade was sent out to feel of his strength. We skirmished with him for a half
                                    day. Drove him five miles amp; returned to Front Royal. The next day [Major General
                                         John C.] 
                                        Fremont
                                     began to drive him amp; we were ordered here to head him off. Marched
                                    38 miles in 24 hours amp; failed in our plans. 
                                        Jackson
                                     did not come this way. We were then ordered 25 miles down the river to
                                    save a bridge amp; failed. The citizens heard of our coming amp; burned it. We
                                    marched all night through the rain making but two fifteen minutes halts the whole
                                    night amp; at daylight met the floating wreck of the bridge we were trying to save.
                        We were ordered 17 [13?] miles further up the valley to burn a bridge the only escape
                                    for 
                                        Jackson
                                    . It was at Port Republic near Staunton. We found 
                                        Jackson
                                     amp; his hosts at Port Republic amp; our presence there was the cause
                                    of the fields around the town to almost flow with human blood. We reached the town
                                    at 2 o'clock on Sunday the 8th inst… . We had with us but four
                                    peices of artillery amp; about 200 cavelry. As we neared the place we could discover
                                    but little sighns of the enemy. The cavelry with two guns dashed through town to the
                                    bridge—saw no enemy in force until they found themselves almost
                                    surrounded with infantry from ambush. They were nearly all captured amp; both peices
                                    ceized.
                        Our Reg. was just entering town when Jacksons waggon train that stood on the opposite
                                    side of the river began to break right amp; left amp; "There revealed alas
                                    that ere they should" 3 batteries of 18 guns. They opened on us at once
                                    with a terrific fire from evry gun. We passed through their fire to town, saw our
                                    task hopeless, about faced—passed again through their fire on common time
                                    until we passed their range.23 We lost 10 men killed amp; many
                                    wounded—had 5 in our company amp; among them our Capt.24 He left here for home to day. 
                                        Columbus
                                        Franklin
                                     was badly wounded in the side amp; left arm. R. H. Myrick his left arm
                                    shot off. Seargt H M Straugh[a]n slightly in both arms amp; on left knee. Wilson Job
                                    [e] slightly on the head.25
                        
                        
                           
                              23 A more detailed description of this action is in Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XII, pt. 1, p. 696.
                           
                              24 Although Hadley's company commander was
                                        wounded, the only officer in the regiment killed in this engagement was Captain
                                        Solomon Waterman of Company C. He was the first commissioned officer of the
                                        Seventh Indiana to die in action. Thomson, Seventh Indiana,
                                        102; Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, II, 42.
                           
                              25 Private 
                                            Columbus
                                            Franklin
                                        , of Brownsburg, was discharged for disability January 22, 1863;
                                        Private Robert H. Myrick, of Bellville, was discharged for disability January
                                        29, 1863; Sergeant Henry M. Straughan, of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , served with the Seventh Indiana until the end of its three-year
                                        tour of duty; Private Noah W. Jobe, of New Elizabeth, soon rejoined his comrades
                                        in the field and was captured in the Battle of the Wilderness. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, IV, 93, 94.
                        
                        
                        We withdrew a mile from the place amp; camped for the night. Next morning the 9th the
                                    3d brigade having come to our assistance we renewed the attact at sunup. The two
                                    brigades perhaps numbered 3000 amp; 500 men. Our line was as follows [:] 7th Ind. on
                                    the right wing, 7 amp; 5th 
                                        Ohio
                                    , 84th amp; 110 Pa. the center, amp; the 3d brigade the left wing, 6
                                    peices of cannon on the left, 4 in the center, amp; two on the right. We took our
                                    position at 8 A.M. amp; at 9 we heard a tremendeous yell arise in our fron[t].
                                    Following it [we] saw rais up over a hill a rebel brigade amp; with flying colors
                                    amp; prancing steeds they came steadily up. Within 200 yds of us they poured a
                                    volley into our ranks when we without delay returned the compliment which brought
                                    them to a halt.
                        Here was the place to try mens soulds. We were in an open field without a stump or
                                    even a bush to shelter us from bullets. We stood amp; fired 80 rounds. When Col
                                    Gavin dashed in front amp; commanded us to charge bayonetts. Off evry man started
                                    with an unearthly yell on the double quick. It was too much for the guilty rebels.
                                    Their line began to stagger amp; when within about 40 yards of them they broke amp;
                                    ran with all speed. I was not sorry to see it for I must confess that I dont like to
                                    try the virtue of steel. Their officers with drawn swords tried in vain to rally
                                    them. They ran like coward [s]. We chased them for a half mile amp; left them
                                    runing. Their center soon gave way amp; afterwards followed by their right. Thus two
                                    Yankee brigades drove four rebel brigades. 
                                        Jackson
                                     seeing this disaster crossed his whole Division amp; they began to come
                                    against us by acres. We saw their numbers—thought it wise to retreat amp;
                                    beat off.
                        From our losses you may judge of the battle's feirceness. In two batteries
                                    there were 68 horses killed. Our Reg. lost 147 killed amp; wounded amp; the other
                                    Reg. in proportion.26 In our company we had one killed amp; 13
                                    wounded. Lieut [Andrew] Luke is also killed or captured.27 Alvah
                                    Montgomery was the one killed in our Company.28 Receiving the
                                    ball he turned round to me said "Here goes ["]—laid
                                    gently down—rested his head on his left arm—laid his gun by
                                    his right side amp; without 
                              
                                 26 The Seventh Indiana's losses at Port
                                            Republic were 9 killed, 107 wounded, and 29 missing. Official
                                                Records, Ser. I, Vol. XII, pt. 1, p. 690.
                              
                                 27 Lieutenant (later Captain) Luke was wounded and
                                            captured in this engagement. Following his exchange, this native of 
                                                Danville
                                             served with the Seventh Indiana until its muster from service.
                                                Thomson, Seventh Indiana, v.
                              
                                 28 Private Montgomery was from Brownsburg. Terrell,
                                                Report of the Adjutant General, IV, 94.
                           
                                     speaking a word or moving a limb he shut his
                                    eyes amp; died. For the want of horses we were compelled to leave 8 peices of cannon
                                    behind us which with some stragling men was all the enemy got of us amp; we brought
                                    from them about 200 prisoners.
                        At the first onset they brought against us 4 brigades. Our two of no more than 3500
                                    men whiped them in a fair fight. They then brought against us their whole Division
                                    which their own men say was 30,000 strong amp; we beat [it] off. The 7th Ind fought
                                    the 7th Ga, the 7 La., amp; the 5th Va. Where they first stood they left 27 killed
                                    on the field amp; were carrying off all the time. I should like to speak more
                                    generally of events for they are numerous but cannot this time.
                        I can't give our 100s [loss] as a whole for I have no idea of its extent. It
                                    is severe.—Perhaps you will see a report. I shall expect a letter soon.
                        
                                    Your friend …c—
                                    J.V.H
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Front Royal Va.
                           
                                    June 20th/62
                                
                        Mollie J. Hill
                        Dear lady—I have again had the honor amp; felt the preasure [sic] of receiving another letter writen by your own fair hand…
                                    . Yours was handed me among many others, but was first to be read. From the
                                    signature I recognized the author amp; I felt a deeper interest in it then than any
                                    I had. It was from a friend that always seemed to receive me a little more kindly
                                    amp; with a more loving smile than any other amp; they are not forgotten in the
                                    army. Though we seem, here, to loose all the finer feelings of our
                                    nature—learn to look upon a man flouncing in his blood, with no more
                                    feelings of remorse than if he were a beheaded dog amp; hear the groans of suffering
                                    humanity with as much indifference as if it were the groans of a dying hyena.
                        But, dear friend I don't desire to impress you with the idea that this is
                                    common with us. It is only the result of battle. A man may amp; will become so
                                    infuriated by the din amp; dangers of a bloody fight, that if he ever had a tender
                                    heart it will [be] turned to stone amp; his evry de sire for blood. Though our minds
                                    are thus secured amp; our better natures thus distracted yet we are not forgetful of
                                    those who watch amp; pity us at home. It is a source of unexpressable relief to a
                                    weary  & worn Soldier to believe that
                                    he has behind him friends who are anxiously waiting his return that they may place
                                    upon his head evry laurel he has won amp; give him the praise deserving of a
                                    soldier. Had he no such reflections his lot would be truly miserable amp;
                                    worthlessmess amp; infamy his destiny.
                        You spoke of your brother's discharge. I was sorry to hear of his bad health
                                    but happy to learn that he had got home. For I know too much of sickness in the
                                    army. I have seen it with all its attendent horrors. I have seen the strong fall
                                    amp; the brave sicken amp; die for the want of attention. At Elk Water—Oh
                                    miserable place—Hell itself dose not stare at me with half the
                                    horrors—I have seen 300 from our Reg. prostrate with disease laying about
                                    on the cold ground—in little mean tents amp; not a particle of Medical
                                    aid amp; since we left there I have had not half the dread for bullets that I have
                                    for disease.29 But we have been very fortunate for five
                                    months—no sickness of consequence.
                        One of our sable cooks—who ran off from his master near Staunton, joined
                                    us at Harris [on] burg in May, amp; was captured at the battle of Port Republick on
                                    Monday the 9 inst—returned to our camp the other evening. He tells many
                                    thrilling stories—was with them a week. He says they talked much of the
                                    fight amp; of the desperation of the 7th Ind. They fought our Reg. of 900 with the
                                    7th La., 7th Ga., amp; 5th Va.—was badly cut to peices amp;
                                    ran—says they'll have revenge. He escaped in the night-saw
                                    Lieut. A. J. Luke of our Co. amp; many others of the brigade safely Guarded in their
                                    ranks—says they were well fed amp; kindly treated. He returned back over
                                    the battle field—reports our dead all buried amp; wounded all kindly
                                    cared for….
                        We have marching orders again—I dont know where to—perhaps to
                                    Manassas or Fredricksburg. Direct yours to W#2 D.C. Shields' Division.
                        We were offered transportation on the cars. Gen Shields refused it—said it
                                    was a Governmental swindle—shields grows unpopular. I could tell you more
                                    of his deeds.
                        We march tomorrow—getting tired laying round-been here three days in one
                                    place. I close—your friend as I have ever professed
                        
                                    J V Hadley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  29 No less than two-thirds of the 618,000 deaths in the Civil War resulted
                        from sickness and disease. Alan C. Davis, "Diseases, Wounds, and Medical Treatment [in
                        the Civil War]," Medical Affairs, II (Spring, 1961), 7.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Alexandria
                                  Va.
                           
                                    July 7th/62
                                
                        Miss Mollie J Hill
                        Dear friend—I write you to day under different circumstances from what I
                                    have ever writen you before. Bright prospects were always looming up before me amp;
                                    I believe I wrote you once that I would be with you on the Fourth that has just
                                    passed—indeed when I enlisted I put that as a boundary of my stay in the
                                    Army. But things are more ominous now. I believe as do many others here that we have
                                    been most shamefully beaten at 
                                        Richmond
                                    —that we have lost a good portion of our army—many
                                    of our guns amp; if so the results of this battle will strike a most tremendeous
                                    blow for the Southern Confederacy.
                        It is enough for us to know that McClellen instead of being three miles from 
                                        Richmond
                                     his Right wing is now thirty miles from the city.30
                                    He tells us that it was a premeditated plan—arranged [ten?] day[s] before
                                    it took place—If this is so the advantage gained must soon be shown or
                                    McClellen politically dies. He has lounged long in the lap of luxury amp; ease. Has
                                    long carried a big name amp; done nothing. He has promised to drive the rebels to
                                    the last ditch. He has slaughtered amp; disorganized a big amp; powerful army. He
                                    claimes to have fallen back 30 miles from Richmong [sic] for a
                                    stratigetical purpose amp; he must now show to the world some of
                                    his powerful wit or they will demand, amp; justly too, his dethronement. Have I said
                                    too much?
                        We are now encamped three miles from 
                                        Alexandria
                                     on the Manassas R.R. Have a beautiful camp—good shades, fine
                                    water, amp; plenty of soft bread. Two of our brigades have already gone to 
                                        Richmond
                                    . We may go but I don't believe we will. We are too few. No
                                    more than 1,500. We are worn out amp; ought to rest. Judge [William S.] Holman31 said we should. I can't say that I am mad, like
                                    some, because they w'on't take us to 
                                        Richmond
                                    . In the entire seige I would not expect to suffer as much as we did at
                                    Port Republic. But out of so many, many must suffer amp; many a brave man will die
                                    for want of attention.
                        The Fourth passed off here very quietly. We had to put on a little millitary stile.
                                    Ran around a little through fields, 
                              
                                 30 McClellan's grand dream of seizing 
                                                Richmond
                                             had disappeared in the smoke of the Seven Days campaign (June
                                            26-July 1, 1862).
                              
                                 31 Holman, a former judge, served as a US.
                                            representative from Indiana from March 4, 1859, to March 3, 1866, and from
                                            March 4, 1867, to March 3, 1877. Biographical Directory of the
                                                American Congress, 1774-1961 (
                                                Washington
                                            , 1961), 1069.
                           
                                     over hills, …c—listened
                                    to a sermon—gave three cheers for the old flag—three for the
                                    speedy termination of the war (ten years)—three for our gray haired
                                    citizenship …c—then withdrew in good order to camp.
                        How passed the day with you Mary? Though it has been a long time since I sat in thy
                                    divine presence amp; a long time since I listened with loving rapture to the
                                    plaintive strains of thy subduing voice amp; it may be much longer yet I hope amp;
                                    believe that some fate will again lead us face to face, that I may assure you how
                                    much I value your regards amp; how much I am your friend—
                        
                                    Jno
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Alexandria
                                    Va
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 22d/62
                                
                        Miss Mollie J. Hill
                        Friend Mary—I write you to day under very embarrassing circumstances. For
                                    a long time I have been hearing that the channel of your affections was running in
                                    an opposite direction—that you were about to adopt another name
                                    …c and I never gave it the least attention until very recently. But the
                                    unaccountable delay of your letters has forced some suspicion at last. If you have
                                    found another more worthy or who has a greater claim upon your affections I am glad
                                    for I must say that I never felt myself worthy of that heart which knows no
                                    sentiment that is not pure amp; holy amp; which feels no motive but to make happy
                                    and blessed all associates.
                        Hearing what I have heard it is a natural and just desire of mine to be made
                                    acquainted with the fact, for if I am writing to a lady whose heart and hand belongs
                                    to another, the tenor of my letters is neither polite nor wise. You can, of course
                                    recognize their impropriety as well as I. If the report adjudges you rightly, Mary,
                                    you will do me at least one more kindness amp; write me at once, frankly about the
                                    matter, that I may not labor under misapprehensions. For if I have ever been
                                    confidential and faithful to you, I shall ever remain so to be and confide evrything
                                    that you may see proper to divulge. Let me know the worst and if the report be true
                                    let the cords of intimacy be a little relaxed but I hope those of friendship may
                                    never be broken.
                        I cannot write longer—politeness forbids—I could tell you many
                                    things but cannot now for this is the third letter at least since I had one from
                                    you. excuse my impertinence for you know my honesty.
                        
                                    I am as ever
                                    Jno
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              On the banks of the Rapidan Va.
                           
                                    Aug. 17th/62
                                
                        My dear Mollie
                        Your letter of the 9th inst is received and already read a dozzen times and at evry
                                    reading my breast would heave and heart bounded as if leaping to the footsteps of a
                                    new born joy. There is no doubt Mollie but what I did you great injustice in
                                    accusing you of inconstancy. I now know I did, but I was driven to it by the wand of
                                    disappointed associates.
                        There is hardly a boy in my Company who did not leave behind in coming into the army,
                                    a lover and there [is] hardly one among them all who has not been deceived. They of
                                    course, too knew that I was receiving letters from some fair hand (and there are
                                    some of course in Camp who knew from where they came) and as they seemed to quit
                                    coming the boys of course let no opportunity pass to inquire into ever[y] delay and
                                    if they discovered anything would hasten to persecute me. It is an old proverb
                                    "that misery loves company" and I believe it for it has been
                                    beautifully exemplified in my case. But I shall no more be led astray. I shall no
                                    more feel disappointed. I shall no longer doubt.
                        But now, Mollie let us bury it all. Let us forget that there was
                                        jealousy existing and let nothing characterize our
                                    corspendence hereafter, but the strongest ties of affection. You
                                    spoke about keeping company with Ambrose—had I objections. I most
                                    assurdly have none. May my right arm drop from my boddy and heart turn to stone if I
                                    ever object to your keeping company with any one whom your good judgement teaches is
                                    honorable. It was never my disposition to complain for I always abhored the
                                    principal [sic]. I hope to hear of your being in company often and
                                    of your enjoying yourself to the fullest extent.
                        Our Gen (Caroul) [Colonel Samuel S. Carroll] is just now brought in mortally
                                        wounded.32 He was out in front and was shot by a sharp
                                    shooter. In consequence of the above there is so much excitement in camp that I cant
                                    write longer. In our last engagement R. P. Parker was badly wounded in left arm. I
                                    said engagement but it was not. We were not in the fight of slaughter mountain but
                                    sent out on pickets the night following when the rebels stole upon us and fired
                                    among 
                              
                                 32 Contrary to Hadley's statement, Colonel
                                            Carroll (who had a brigadier's responsibilities but only a
                                            colonel's rank) recovered from his wounds. Yet the injuries of this
                                            forty-year-old native of the 
                                                District of Columbia
                                             were serious enough to keep him from the two ensuing campaigns.
                                                Official Records, Ser. I, vol. XII, pt. 2, pp. 2, 28,
                                            175, 345.
                           
                                     us wounding 46 but killing none.33 I will tell you somtime about the battle. It was a sad affair.
                        We are now in [Brigadier General James B.] Ricketts Division instead of
                                    Shields'. I have the honor to be your best friend
                        
                                    J. V. Hadley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Armory Hospital Whashington City D.C.
                           
                                    Sept 16/62
                                
                        Miss Mollie J Hill
                        My dearest friend—just one year from the day that I stood in the
                                    Statehouse yard at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , and swore with uplifted hand, to sustain the Government, to fight
                                    traitors, to obey officers, …c, …c—I stood upon the
                                    battle field of Bull Run—and while the Earth was drinking in great
                                    draughts of blood and madly seemed to yawn for more, while countless shells were
                                    screaming vengence on the foe and leaden aders hissing past our
                                    heads—while men were dying, heroes groaning, victors yelling, steel a
                                    clashing, death a dancing—too painfully … I was wounded in the
                                    thigh which since that date (30th of Aug.) has held me prostrate.
                        It was dark when it occurred. Fortune as you have learned was against us and we being
                                    on the extreeme right was swinging round to form a new line which had been broken on
                                    the left a center. We having been engaged all afternoon were tired and fell beack
                                    near a mile to a place we thought of perfect securety, for we believed a Division at
                                    least to be in front of us. We had stacked arms and were sitting about on the ground
                                    talking about the fortunes of the day when suddenly, in front about 200 yards
                                    distant, emerging from a thicket of pine, we saw a column of infantry.
                        Col [Joseph] Thoburn34 commanding the brigade at once called us
                                    to arms. He then sang out to the approaching column "What force comes
                                    there?" "Secesh" replied a voice. "Dont talk
                                    that way" says Thoburn "or we'll give you a
                                    volley". "Well who are you?" called out the voice.
                                    "We are Union troops)' returned Thoburn. "Oh well
                                    then" echoed the voice "don't fire we're
                                    friends["].
                        
                           
                              33 The casualties of the Seventh Indiana at the Battle of
                                        Slaughter Mountain (or Cedar Run) on August 9, 1862, numbered three less than
                                        Hadley's figure. Ibid., 139.
                           
                              34 Following the Battle of Slaughter Mountain, Colonel
                                        Thoburn, of the First (West) Virginia had assumed command of the Fourth Brigade.
                                            Indiana at 
                                                Antietam
                                            : Report of the Indiana 
                                                Antietam
                                             Commission … (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1911), 86.
                        
                        
                        Onward they came preserving an excellent front. And Thoburn still doubtful cried out
                                    again ["] if you are Union troops wave your colors ["] which was
                                    done. They marched up within at least 15 steps and halting dressed their line as if
                                    to stack arms. Thoburn now rode down towards them when bang! went a gun which barely
                                    saved his life. He wheeled about and shouted "the
                                    enemy—fire!["]
                        At this instant a perfect sheet of fire proceeded from our ranks and from their [s].
                                    Similtaneous with the fire in front was another from our right flank, coming from a
                                    column that had slipped upon us unnoticed.35 The column then on
                                    our right began to swing round in our rear to cut us off when we were ordered to get
                                    out of there as best we could. From the right hand volley I received my wound and
                                    when I had discharged my gun and faced about to follow my Reg. another ball passing
                                    through my hat near the temples laid me insensible on the ground. I know not how
                                    long I lay here but I guess not long. When sense returned I sprang to my feet in
                                    great confusion. I knew not where I was or who I was, what I had done, what I should
                                    do, or anything about it.
                        Secesh were about me thicker than Black birds in June. I felt the hot blood streaming
                                    from my wound and at once decided that death was my choise before Captivity in their
                                    hands at that time. They had thousands of their own which were before me and a death
                                    of starvation and suffering I was not seeking. I seized my faithful rifle, which had
                                    served me in many troubles, by the musle and gave her an unearthly hurl into the
                                    ranks of a column that was advancing about five or ten steps from me and I dont
                                    think that less than a score of bullets sighed me adieu as I bounded from them.
                        I had made about ten jumps when an impertinent gray back presented his beyonett to my
                                    breast and demanded a halt. I halted and then "What Reg. do you belong
                                    to?" I answered 7th Ind. But he misstook me I am sure for the 7th La for he
                                    took down his gun and joined his Reg which had passed in the foray. I followed him
                                    into their ranks. I went and continued with them about four hundred yds. We here
                                    struck a cornfield and I dont think but few of them entered the field but I did. And
                                    I took a seperate row and I know you would have laughted to see my passibles coming
                                        
                              
                                 35 A stimulating account of the regiment's
                                            role in the Battle of Second Manassas is in Thomson, Seventh
                                                Indiana, 119-121. Incomplete casualty returns for the Seventh
                                            Indiana listed 3 killed, 16 wounded, and 4 missing. Official
                                                Records, Ser. I, Vol. XII, pt. 2, p. 255.
                           
                                     off. Haversack, canteen, cartridge box, and
                                    evrything loose went flying into the air and then to say I ran will hardly give you
                                    a mea[n]ing. I might have exclaimed with great propriety
                        "I am the rider of the wind the stirer of the storm
                        The Hericane I left behind to be with lightning warmed ["].
                        Fifteen minutes however brought me up with our rear where I found help. With the
                                    support of two friends I waded the river waist deep and walked 5 miles to 
                                        Centerville
                                     that night. To give farther particulars is unnecessary. However two
                                    days later found me where I now am in a very comfortable Hospital. The bone of my
                                    leg I think is not injured and the wound doing well. I walked out to dinner
                                    yesterday and to day and think by the close of this week I can walk quite well.
                        I have had no letter from you for five weeks. When I left the Reg we had had no mail
                                    for three week[s]. I answered your last on the banks of the Rapidan. I must quit for
                                    I grow very tired. No support for my paper but a little book. Be of good cheer Mary
                                    for the war will end and friends will return to your greeting and I hope to be
                                    first. Hoping that you m[a]y live long and happy I remain as ever
                        
                                    Your loving friend
                                    John
                                
                        Direct [letters] to Sergt. J. V. Hadley Ward A, Armory Hospital 
                                        Washington City
                                    , D.C.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington City
                                  D.C.
                           
                                    Oct 31st/62
                                
                        Miss Mollie J Hill
                        Dear friend—I wrote you some time ago, with the expectation of soon
                                    following the letter. In this I was a little disappointed but my hopes are still
                                    sanguine of hailing my native state soon again. I have been from my bed now near two
                                    weeks and during this time I have let no opportunity or circumstance pass that would
                                    aid me in getting a furlough. I twice attempted and twice failed and now have the
                                    third one in progress. The old addage has it, that "the third time is the
                                    charm ["] and I believe it will be in this case. I expect a furlough in a
                                    few days.
                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                        My wound is almost quite well. I walk now without the aid of even a cane. Hoping to
                                    see you soon I shall not write longer, but remain yours with affection
                        
                                    J. V. Hadley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Danville
                                  [Indiana]
                           
                                    Dec. 1st/62
                                
                        Mollie J Hill
                        Dear girl—another turn in the wheel of Fortune has made me 1st Lieut. of
                                    my Company—consequently I shall not be able to return to my Reg. for two
                                    weeks to come and I shall be most happy to see you again at your father's
                                    house on Saturday evening next (Dec. 6th). I am very
                        
                                    affectionately Yours
                                    J. V. Had.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Pratts Landing 10 miles below Aquia Creek
                           
                                    Dec. 28th/62
                                
                        My dear girl
                        After two days fearfully "riding on the Rail Road
                                    Keer"—steaming down the fabulous Potomac a hundred
                                    miles—walking 20 miles through a rough, thick, and desolated country I
                                    reached my Regiment, my Company, my home. I find them in much better condition than
                                    I expected. They suffered but little at Fredricksburg36—look the best I ever saw them [and] have good
                                    clothes—comfortable huts and plenty of blankets.
                        I find my favorite Col [Corporal Henry Thomas] Ashby still up and
                                    doing—with plenty of dry fun and much applauded for his gallantry at the
                                    late battle.37 James W. Adams is looking well and has not in
                                    looks, habits, or manners materially changed. I presume he will soon be 2d Lieut. as
                                    Lieut Luke is resigning. I am sorry that we are going to loose Luke for he is no bad
                                    man—but brave, manly, amp; honorable and is very indignant at me being
                                    promoted over him. He seemes to not blame me but my friends who procured it. Were it
                                    to be done over again I would not accept it over him. I dont blame him for it. I
                                    told him so—I would do just as he is doing—though I hate to
                                    see him leave us.
                        Mary this is Sunday night and what a change three weeks have wrought. I have not
                                    forgotten where I was then; and I feel and know where I am now. Then in the presence
                                        
                              
                                 36 The regiment's losses at
                                                    
                                    Fredericksburg,
                                                    Virginia
                                 , were 1
                                            killed and 6 wounded. Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXI,
                                            138. A summary of its role in the battle is in Ibid.,
                                            471-472.
                              
                                 37 Hadley here refers to a messmate in Company B,
                                            Corporal Ashby. Apparently the men in the ranks gave this noncommissioned
                                            officer the sobriquet of "Colonel," possibly because they
                                            had fought several times against a Confederate cavalry officer with the same
                                            surname, Colonel (later Brigadier General) Turner Ashby. Thomson, Seventh Indiana, 136.
                           
                                     of a friend who had no intention but to make
                                    happy and no motive but to bless. But how changed now. The roar of hostile guns that
                                    I now hear in front tell me that I am in the presence of an armed foe and that death
                                    may be mine before this is yours. The world seemes to be mourning to night Mary.
                                    Evrything is hushed and not a noise to break the solitude but the sharp shrill notes
                                    of the trumpet which tells the troop[s] that it is time to go to rest and the
                                    reverberating echoes of the canonade in front. Evrything seemes to sigh. There is
                                    enough of solem pathos in one blast of winter wind around the corner of my tent to
                                    put all mankind in tears.
                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                        I have not forgotten, nor never will the time when we sat together as we were about
                                    to part for the evening and I heard those words "I ask you not to stay but
                                    go. Be patient, be enduring, be obedient, be kind, be gallant, but of all things be
                                        moral". Be moral. Whence the supernatural power of
                                    these two words? Be moral. They stand before me like a giant with eternal strength
                                    whose outstreached arm is ever ready to snatch me from the destroyer. Be moral.
                                    There is sweetness in the words. There [is] music in them to lull the fatal Siren
                                    and let me escape. Be moral. May these two words be engraven on the banner that
                                    shall lead me in battle, that shall wave over me in camp, and may they be a pillar
                                    of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night to lead me, at last, safely back, to
                                    claim the hand of her that uttered them.
                        Mary my stile is pathetic to night. I know it and would have it so. There is a time
                                    to mourn and a time to dance. There are times when the heart should be unlocked and
                                    evry tender feelings indulged and let this be my lot to-night. Let the eyes that
                                    have be[en] dry for years be moistened with the tears of remembrance. I left a
                                    mother whose form was drooping with the heaviness of age and who lavished her love
                                    upon me not wisely but too well and a loving sister tottering on the grave who as
                                    she pressed my hand whispered in my ear Farewell forever. Mary these things come
                                    heavily on me to night.
                        Mary[,] Jim Adams has got a letter from home and he comes in to tell me of a great
                                    misfortune that has happened to your family.38 I was much
                                    surprised. But such is the end 
                              
                                 38 This misfortune was the death of Mollie's
                                            mother, Mrs. Rebecca Hornaday Hill, who had died of typhoid fever. John V.
                                            Hadley (ed.), History of Hendricks County, Indiana: Her People,
                                                Industries and Institutions (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1914), 176.
                           
                                     of our kind—the nature of our being.
                                    Accept dear friend my deepest sympathy in mourning for the dead and allow me to
                                    sorrow with you for the bereavement it has caused.
                        I have had no letter from you yet since I returned but hope for one soon. Direct your
                                    letters as before. I will write no more now.
                        
                                    Yours with great regard
                                    J. V. Hadley
                                
                        Miss Mollie J. Hill
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Pratts Landing Va.
                           
                                    Jan 7th/63
                                
                        My dear friend Mary
                        Yours of the 22 ult. was received with usual joy and thankfulness. Although its
                                    principal contents were anticipated, it was read with grave interest and with a
                                    depth of feeling that is called forth by no other correspondent. As I read your
                                    affecting discription of your mother's death I thought I could see the
                                    upheavings of distress and hear the wailings of sorrow that followed this stroke of 
                                        Providence
                                    . So sudden, so unexpected, so affecting that it would break the bars of
                                    the hardest heart and soften it to tears. Mary I some times believe that death is
                                    the portion of the fortunate. The longer I live the more I learn to distrust and
                                    dispair of my fellows. So often have I trusted and been deceived. So often confided
                                    and been betrayed.
                        This world is not so bad but the people in it are a great cheat. Our best friends
                                    seemingly are laying in ambush to destroy us. While they would have us believe that
                                    they would do anything to make us happy and promote our honor they at the same time
                                    are trying to cut our heads off and I have frequently thought that they are
                                    fortunate who die good and honorable and that we should rejoice rather than mourn
                                    their loss, no matter how tender the cords which bound them to us.
                        Your mother and sister were noble as they were good—beloved as they were
                                    true and now while the world is in confusion and our country at war they remain
                                    undisturbed and untroubled. Now when a bloody conflict is announced and the death
                                    knell is sounded in a thousand homes while the groans of wounded and suffering
                                    humanity are caught up, carried, and [chanled?] in the circle of distressed
                                    friends—these peaceful sleepers rest in blissful ignorance of all.
                        
                        So Mary be of good cheer, banish grief—it is the end of us all. Stand up
                                    bravely and face the adverses of the world. Put on a bold front and vindicate
                                    yourself. Strike for yourself first, for your friends afterwards. It is the moto of
                                    the age. First accomodate yourself then indulge your friends. This is the spirit
                                    that succeeds.
                        The mystery of my Promotion is now explained. It was the work of Capt Bank and Col
                                    Gavin. Luke sent a protest to Govoner [Morton] against the measure and in accordance
                                    with an order the Gov. issued last winter he could not Promote me over Luke.
                                    Consequently upon Lukes' protest the Gov. revoked my Commission making Luke
                                    first and me Second Lieut. This is a little embarrassing to me, but not so much to
                                    me as the other was to Luke. Luke is a meritorious man and I was surprised that he
                                    was not Recommended for 1st Lieut. Luke has done by me exactly what Major [Ira G.]
                                        Grover39 of our Reg. did by Capt [Alexander B.] Pattison.
                                    Pattison was elected Major by the unanimous vote of the officers, but Grover was the
                                    ranking officer. And after Pattison had been playing Major for two months Grover
                                    came out with his commisson and sent Pattison back to his Company.
                        
                                    Write soon and believe me yours truly
                                    Jno V Hadley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Pratts Landing Va.
                           
                                    Jan. 14th/63
                                
                        Miss Mary J Hill
                        Dear friend… . Lieut Luke had just received the miniature of his affianced
                                    fair (Miss Cara Howard) and we were lying on the bed extolling the qualities of our
                                    friends when the Post boy handed me your letter and with an outburst of pleasure I
                                    broke its seal for I knew the writer.
                        In your letter you spoke of telling your dying mother our secret, at her request and
                                    you ask me if I blame you. Mary why do you ask me such a question? Do you think me
                                    so intolerent? I would indeed have thought you very ungrateful had you refused to
                                    tell her. I am very happy to know that she had such an exaulted opinion of me and
                                    feel that I am not worthy of such confidence. Should I live to prove that your
                                    mother was not entirely deceived I shall have accomplished one great object of my
                                    life. You also speak of 
                              
                                 30 Grover, a native of 
                                                Greensburg
                                            , had left his seat in the state legislature to enter the army.
                                            Like Hadley, he was captured in the Wilderness fighting. See Thomson, Seventh Indiana, 10, 97-98, 183.
                           
                                     your arrangement for school being annulled. I
                                    am sorry of this but believe "that all things work together for
                                    good" and that this opportunity may sometime be restored.
                        I can't tell you any news for I have none. I can't tell you when
                                    we'll move for you know as well about this as I do. I cant give you any
                                    signs of peace for fortune seemes against us. I can't tell you that the
                                    army is enthusiastic for I fear that is not the case.
                        Jim Adams is well to do. Is liked as Ordely Sergt. by both men an[d] officers. He is
                                    professedly a bosome friend of mine and if he writes anything to the contrary to his
                                    friends at home in order to conciliate his illfortune in promotion—you
                                    will please keep me advised. I have no reason to be jealous of Jim but I know the
                                    misgivings of our nature… .
                        With my best wishes for your happiness and success with the responsibilities that are
                                    upon you I
                        
                                    remain as ever
                                    John
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Pratts Landing Va.
                           
                                    Jan. 26th/63
                                
                        Miss Mollie J Hill
                        My dear friend—another one of your coveted letters is before me and for me
                                    to tell how thankful I am to you for it would be but an idle repetition of
                                    words… .
                        Since I last wrote you we have made another attempt to redeem the honor of the Army
                                    of the Potomac.40 At noon on the 21st inst. we struck tents,
                                    strip[p]ed our shelter sheets from their wooden walls, and with buckled swords,
                                    shouldered guns, packed knap sacks, and three days cooked rations, fell in and
                                    marched out to our parade grounds. Here we were formed for the march in the
                                    following order[:] 7th Ind. Commanding by Capt Will C. Banta (Lieut Col. [John F.]
                                        Cheek41 and Maj. Grover being absent) in front of the
                                    brigade Commanded by Col Gavin.
                        
                           
                              40 Here Hadley describes Major General Ambrose
                                        Burnside's inglorious "Mud March" of January, 1863.
                                        Overriding the protests of every one of his corps commanders, Burnside attempted
                                        to turn the Confederate left flank by a forced march. The elements, however,
                                        turned against him; his army floundered at an average pace of a mile per day.
                                        After three weeks of frustration, Burnside cancelled the move. Shortly
                                        thereafter, Major General Joseph Hooker succeeded him to the command of the Army
                                        of the Potomac. See Warren W. Hassler, Jr., Commanders of the Amy
                                            of the Potomac (
                                            Baton Rouge
                                        , La., 1962), 119-124.
                           
                              41 Lieutenant Colonel Cheek, a native of 
                                            Lawrenceburg
                                        , often commanded the Seventh Indiana until March 15, 1863, when he
                                        resigned from service. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant
                                        General, II, 40; Indiana at 
                                                Antietam
                                            
                              , 83-88.
                        
                        
                        We had a fine afternoon for marching. The air blew a cool refreshing gale and the
                                    roads were hard but entirely free from dust. There was no artillery stuck in our way
                                    and the men being fresh with plenty of nerve we made without much difficulty 12
                                    miles before dark and that too with most prodigeous loads. Darkness was now upon us
                                    and we were two miles above Falmo[u]th in the face of the enemy. The elements now
                                    became alarmingly infuriated. The wind blew almost a herricane while the rain began
                                    to desend in perfect torrents. To march was impossible and to hunt a camp seemed
                                    almost as difficult. We succeeded in groaping our way to a rough hill side which had
                                    been heavily wooded, but was now cut off and put in the cord. It was green pine but
                                    by putting a sufficient quantity of it together we finally got a fire.
                        We tried to patch our little canvass but it seemed all of no purpose. The wind blew
                                    so violently and the rain beat so furiously against our humble little huts, that
                                    they afforded us the least comfort. We had not been to bed more than an hour before
                                    evry blanket was drenched with rain. The fires were all blown and washed out and to
                                    rekindle them now was an impossibility. I once thought that I had suffered intensely
                                    while on Picket once at Elkwater. I thought too that I had discovered the extreemity
                                    of human endurance on Picket below Strausburg. And I now believe that it was all
                                    eclipsed by this night. It was one of these cold winter rains that we have in
                                    Indiana, but it seemed now that its fury was fabulous. Notwithstanding the weather
                                    the night was a busy one. Troops were passing all the night. The curses of men, the
                                    braying of mules, the notes of the bugle were heard at evry hour.
                        Morning came and with [it] the rain seemed [to] increase. At 8 we again moved and the
                                    roads were now very mudy. Several yes many of our boys now sank under their great
                                    loads and they were forced to leave them. We marched but five miles to-[that?] day
                                    and camped in some waste land now grown up thickly with pine bushes.—Here
                                    we spent the remainder of the day and the following night as we did also the next
                                    day and night, and not one hour during the whole time did it cease raining. It
                                    rained not hard but incessant. The Army passing and repassing had made the mud
                                    alarming. I can give you no idea of its extent. At one time I saw 12 heavy mules to
                                    one waggon with three boxes of crackers and it seemed that the weight of one man
                                    would have stuck them.  Our guns and trains
                                    became mired and mud so deep that horses were no more to them than flies to an ox
                                    waggon.
                        So we could move no farther. The army was stuck in the mud and the battle must be
                                    postponed. And with long ropes and a hundred men the artillery and waggons were
                                    dragged to high ground and left with strong guards while the infantry were sent back
                                    to their respective camps. With this rain, in my opinion, perished the brightest
                                    prospects of this war. I am sanguine in the belief that it would have fared ill with
                                    the rebels if we had got across the river. There was a solemn candor and sterness
                                    about evry man which seemed to say "give us this time the issue".
                                    Whether we will repeat the effort remains for future events.
                        Mary this is Sunday night and as I look at your miniature which lies opened before me
                                    my heart is filled with the rapture of other days when the holy Sabath seemed to be
                                    made more sacred by the divine presence of her whom I address. With a heart yearning
                                    to return to assure you of its fidelity I remain faithfully
                        
                                    Yours
                                    Jno. V Had.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Pratts Landing Va.
                           
                                    Feb. 7th/63
                                
                        Endeared Mary—I have just read yours of the 23d ult. and was glad to hear
                                    that things are as well with you as they are… .
                        You ask me how I like the position I now occupy. Of course I like it better than
                                    playing, Private, Corporal, Sergt. or Ordely,
                                    yet among the advantages and pleasures there are many disadvantages and
                                    displeasures. There is a throb of pleasure felt in shoulder straped authority, when
                                    away from home, when instead of having the Guards beyonett placed at your breast and
                                    halted, you are saluted as you pass along. Yet in this I never felt any glory for I
                                    feel that I was just as good a boy—just as meritorious and
                                    brave—when I stood shivering on my post as now when I review the Guard
                                    with a Red Sash. A thousand times have my feelings chafed like a fettered lion when
                                    I remember how often I have been so grossly insulted by intilecual blanks and now
                                    [am] received with courtesy on the same business.
                        Our situation is now good. Our culinary condition has been much improved. Soft bread,
                                    Potatoes, onions, Molasses,  beans, beef, and
                                    butter are among the things we now eat. Like a herd of poor oxen they are fattening
                                    us for the slaughter. We eat and sleep and wait patiently for the time.
                        Our army here is being dispersed. The 5th Army Corps has embarked for Fortress 
                                        Monroe
                                    , the 9th has similar orders, and from all indications we are to follow
                                    soon. I dont know whether it is for a Southern Campaign or for another trial for 
                                        Richmond
                                    . I think the former the most probable as it would be the most wise. 
                                        Richmond
                                     I think almost out of our power. So well fortified and defended with
                                    such desperate valor that it would be almost floated away in blood before it would
                                    yield.
                        … . When I again write you it will probably be from another Station. At
                                    present I am devotedly
                        
                                    Your friend
                                    John
                                
                        Miss Mollie J Hill
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Pratts Landing Va.
                           
                                    Feb. 24th/63
                                
                        Dear Mary
                        Your letter of the 15 inst was received last night. Although it had seemed like an
                                    age since I had received a letter from you, yet never once did I feel like you were
                                    neglecting your duty. But I feared you were sick, seized with the assassin Typhoid
                                    for I had heard of his ravages about Pittsboro. I was extremely happy to hear that
                                    you were recovering from the Dyptheria a disease but little less frightful in its
                                    nature than the Typhoid.
                        Mary may I tell you my dream? Yes I will tell it, for you will not be offended. No,
                                    No, you cannot be. The Earth was covered with a deep and drifting garb of snow. The
                                    wind was cruelly cold as I lay in my tent and dreamed. I was at home again. War was
                                    no longer our watchword or death and destruction our calling. I was before my
                                    mothers hearth stone and the family was there. Brothers and one sister were all here
                                    and there was merry making. Though we had all grown into stern man and woman hood,
                                    yet we were all there who once formed a happy little houshold and hand in hand, led
                                    by a mother, we seemed to journey back through childhood and gathering, strewed
                                    flowers upon the grave of a sister we buried then. Our evening tales were
                                    told—our festivities were over and we retired.
                        
                        The next morning looked happy with sunny smiles and we were up and the morning
                                    salutations passed. At 12 o clock with a fluttering heart and decent attire I bent
                                    my way to your house. The minister was to be there. Well I arrived
                                    and met you at the door and there was grasping of hands and touching of lips.
                                    Leaning upon my arm we went into your chamber. The minister was ready and announced.
                                    We knelt before the alter, plighted our hearts, we uttered our vows, we loved, and
                                    we were married. Like two weary, wandering souls stepping into Heaven did we enter
                                    into the happiness of wedlock and as the evening wore away our cup of happiness
                                    seemed to grow fuller and fuller. You were leaning on my arm and we were strolling
                                    through the yard drinking each others' sighs and shaping our course for
                                    life when I awoke and found nothing but the rough touch of Captain Banta.
                        What a deceit. For many long years yet I fear there will still be war. And whil there
                                    is war among us there is no peace for me. As to this my fate is sealed. There is no
                                    turning back for me. The cause the same. My country as dear, my aid as needed. Why
                                    should I lay down my arms? I love peace but I love my country more. I am now wedded
                                    to war and while God gives me strength I mean to share her fortunes until the issue
                                    comes. I am as sanguine to day in the belief that the Union will be restored as I
                                    ever was. I fear no Revolution of the North West because they know too well the
                                    retribution that would follow them. I fear no Forein power for they know too well
                                    our strength. But I believe there is a day coming when this Union will again be
                                    united, when its people will again be happy, when we will love where we now hate,
                                    and where we now have war we will have domestic happiness. At least like the sweet
                                    s[c]ent within a budded rose such a joy is folded in my heart. And when I view the
                                    end of this war—see men returning to their families with heads crowned
                                    with glory won and nestling in their bosoms the concienceness of having done their
                                    duty—"my heart is burning to be one of those".
                        If you read the Hendri[cks] County Ledger at your house and desire to know the
                                    sentiments of the boys from that County you can learn them by refering to a Document
                                    that will appear in about next weeks' number. At a meeting of the officers
                                    of the three Hendricks Co. Companies we  wrote
                                    and ratified those sentiment[s] and [if] there is any honor in them I claim my share
                                    for writing the Document.
                        Hoping that you are by this time well and able to write me a long letter I close with
                                    my best wishes for your health and happiness.
                        
                                    J. V. Hadley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of the Potomac
                              Pratts Landing Va.
                           
                                    M[arch] 15/63
                                
                        Miss Mollie Hill
                        Pittsbor[o] Indiana
                        My Dear Mary—We've got lots of company to day and they have got
                                    so many things to tell and so many come in to hear them tell—that it is
                                    impossible for me to write you but a short and worthless letter to day. Father
                                    Horniday from 
                                        Plainfield
                                    , E. M. Straughan of 
                                        Danville
                                    , and Asa Strong of Clermont are our guests and each has his story and
                                    opinion to give which keep a perfect clamor in our tent all the time.
                        You wonder if I were at church on the 1st. Dont believe I was, Mary. Was on Picket
                                    then. Wanted to go to "me[e]ten" but
                                    couldn't. Had to go to a house hard by where I saw a bird
                                    light. It looked like a bird of Paradise. Guess
                                    it wasn't though. Her feathers had the appearance of once
                                    being beautiful. But had been roughly used. When I approached she didn't
                                    fly. Dont know whether she was frightened or not. Guess she wasn't. She had
                                        seen men before. I think she (or it) was some ones pet. I
                                    couldn't see the attraction and pitied the one who could. Had business at
                                    the house. Was looking for a man. A shoulder straped man. An Officer of the Day.
                        You ask me if I still play "Checkers". You mean
                                    "Cards". No, I have not had a game for a month. Chess has become
                                    the game. It is now the most popular thing in the Reg. except
                                    "Stealing". The times has come when we can not steal maiden
                                    hearts, for want of opportunities and our instincts teaches that we must steal
                                    something. But my hear[t] has long been stolen and I would not reclaim it and I also
                                    have some assurance that I have stolen one in return which makes me more content
                                    than most of my comrades. You say that you are opposed to me killing
                                    "Ducks" and that you will settle with me when I come home.
                                    I'm glad of this. How I long to make this settlemen[t]—what
                                    happiness will follow as an issue.
                        
                        I can but call to memory these happy coming times when my heart with one endless leap
                                    bounds to Indiana and is there lost amid the mazes of waiting joys. But you laugh
                                    and say I'm love sick. Well if I am its no fault of mine.
                                    It [is] yours. It seemes cruel but I cannot call it mean. You say that "You
                                    were over-come with joy the other day on receiving a letter from
                                        your gallant Ambrose full of love, and
                                    lovely sayings," and from the honeyed style you expect a marriage proposial
                                    in his next. And what shall you do about it you ask. I will just say. Ask your heart
                                    and do its bidding—'tis all the honest way. For where the heart
                                    is not given it is wicked to give the hand—yea criminal.
                        We go on Dress Parade now in a few minutes. I wish you were here to see us. I have
                                    got to believe that we look pretty well with good clothing, shining steel, noisy
                                    Drums, and flying colors. I believe we look like respectable soldiers. At least we
                                    think we do. All quiet—weather bad—spirits good and Spring a
                                    going and danger coming. May Heaven shower its blessing on your head. Make you
                                    always happy and pure to bless.
                        
                                    Your loving
                                    John
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of the Potomac
                              Pratts Point Va
                           
                                    Ma[rch] 22 [?] 1863
                                
                        Mollie J Hill Pittsboro Ind.
                        Dear Mary—"remember the Sabath day to keep it holy"
                                    began your last letter amp; I can think of nothing more appropriate to begin this
                                    one of mine. If I have read my Bible right this is one of the Ten Commandments
                                    enjoined upon man amp; forms one tenth part of his Duty to observe and obey. I have
                                    no Minister to tell me of this to day but I remember it from my maternal teachings
                                    of many years ago amp; shall try as I have ever done in some degree to respect. Yet
                                    while I have said no prayer nor read a Chapter, I feel that I am discharging a Duty
                                    just as holy and just as worshipful as if I were at the Sanctuary or in my closet.
                                    And how I love this duty. How I love to keep the Sabath day holy in discharging it.
                                    In writing to the guiding star of my ambition—to the object for which I
                                    wish to live—to the Being who seemes to have my happiness and destiny in
                                    her hands  to bless or ruin. Mary I know you
                                    often laugh a[nd] say I talk silly. But Shakespear tells us to
                        
                                    "Learn to love the lesson is but plain
                                    And once made perfect never lost again".
                                
                        And I believe it. I once learned the lesson two long years ago, amp; I have not yet
                                    forgotten it. Nor never will nor never wish to. A flame is burning in my breast and
                                    though it is painful, I cannot seek to quench it. Better men have loved and worse
                                    men have been enslaved. Kings have at all time been suitors amp; beggars worshipers
                                    of this mighty Goddess amp; why should I claim or wish to be beyond its power.
                        It was Sunday night when you wrote your last amp; you say that you wished me there.
                                    Thanks for the honor you do me. And Heavens how my heart fluttered in responding
                                    Amen to your wish. But my heart sank to remember that no such happiness was mine nor
                                    promised to be soon. Oh how I did wish it were mine to slip to your back and just as
                                    you recorded that sentence ("I wish you were here") to have
                                    touched you gently on the shoulder amp; exclaimed "I am here". The
                                    ecstacy of the moment I believe would have been fully felt with grasping hands and
                                    touching lips our meeting had been made and while our lips would have been sealed
                                    our hearts would have told the story of their suffering. But such a time is coming
                                    Dear Mary. And we'll sit on the sofa. We'll draw nigh unto each
                                    other, we'll talk, we'll love.
                        To day I have been Detailed by our commanding officer from the leisure and quiet of
                                    my official Duties in the Company to the more arduous amp; responsible Duties of
                                    Regimental Quartermaster. My career in this Department will be short, though.
                                    Probably not to exceed a month. It is occasioned by the Regular Quartermaster going
                                    home on a leave of absence.42 I shall try to improve my
                                    opportunities amp; get many good rides out of his excellent charger amp; if the
                                    roads were not so bad I might come up to see you to night. Would I surprise you or
                                    would you surprise me by finding "your company engaged". With the
                                    exception of a raid occasionally things are still remarkably quiet. No signs of a
                                    move nor no signs 
                              
                                 42 The regimental quartermaster was Lieutenant
                                            Benjamin F. Burlingame from Company A. At the Battle of Corrick's
                                            Ford, 
                                                Virginia
                                            , July 13, 1861, Burlingame, then a sergeant, allegedly fired
                                            the shot that killed Confederate Brigadier General Robert S. Garnett.
                                            Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, II, 41; Kemper,
                                            "The Seventh Regiment," Indiana War
                                            Papers, 129.
                           
                                     of the mud drying up. Rain, Snow, and [shine?]
                                    mark the passing of evry day. But as the old song goes more rain more rest. I salute
                                    you Mary—
                        
                                    John
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Q.M. Dept. 7th Ind.
                              Pot. Army Pratts Point Va.
                           
                                    M[arch] 29 [?]/63
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Pittsboro Indiana
                        My Dear Mary
                        Sunday morning is again upon me amp; my happy task of writing you
                                    commenced… . Mary you tell me that you sit writing before the stone where
                                    we once sat together amp; with unlocked hearts told the secret of our inward
                                    passion. Oh those were days that were ripe with happiness—full of joys as
                                    the Rainbow is of brightness.
                        There was—… oh how many sorrows crowd within these two brief
                                    words—There was a time when it was mine to live amp; learn amp; linger in
                                    the haunts of love—to bask in the sunny smiles of Angilic
                                    purity—to lean gently upon the alabaster arm of her who makes me happy
                                    amp; who makes me want to live. But why should I recall what was.
                                    'Tis enough amp; all to know they have
                                        been. They may return. We may
                                    hope—but not to[o] sanguine. The firery ordeal is yet to be passed. The
                                    fair castle of our hopes may yet crumble. The present tells us to wait. The storm of
                                    war amp; battle is again lowering. Across the hills of Fredricksburg we can again
                                    hear the thunderings of its murderous moan. Balloons hang upon nearly evry breeze.
                                    Rockets are flying in evry hour of the night, all of which are forebodings of the
                                    coming conflict.
                        My Department has been very active for the last week. I have turned over to the
                                    Brigade Q.M. during the present week all extra horses, waggons, clothing, Supplies,
                                    …c. which we cannot transport on a forced march. I have also drawn pack
                                    mules amp; saddles which will carry all personal baggage amp; provision. We have
                                    also mule trains that will carry Ammunition. This is something new in our army amp;
                                    I have fears of its working well. The alloted load I think too great, 275 lbs to the
                                    mule. I believe this will kill the train in a weeks time. The Baggage allowed
                                    officers is growing "small by degrees amp; beautifully less". No
                                    Regimental officer is now permited to take any thing with him which he cannot carry
                                         himself. I consider this right but it is
                                    humiliating to some. Where shoulder straps have hitherto appeared in gaudy splendor
                                    will soon be seen the grim visage of a burdensome knapsack, amp; where the plated
                                    canteen has often swung full of sparkling spirits will soon be found a spacious
                                    Haversack carrying 10 days rations.
                        
                        How smarting this will be to young officers who have never been knapsack victims. I
                                    shall laugh I know at some of my acquaintances. As for myself I have no feelings of
                                    horror at all on returning to this humble but honest way of soldiering. I have done
                                    it once amp; am no better now.
                        You ask me if I wont come home next summer. This is a very hard question for me to
                                    answer in fact I cannot answer it. If I have no mishap it is now my desire to come
                                    next Fall to visit my friends. We will talk about this however as the time comes
                                    nearer to hand. Im coming if I can. I am yours sincerely
                        
                                    J. Vestal H.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Amy of the Potomac
                              Pratts Point Va.
                           
                                    April 12/63
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Pittsboro Ind.
                        Mary
                        Your last letter was an excellent one. Dont think I ever enjoyed as good a laugh all
                                    with myself as I did from this letter… . You say my last letter was so
                                    different from any you had ever received before that you could hardly comprehend
                                        it.43 Thought I must have been posessed of a Devil or was
                                    tight. The former I never disavowed, but as to the latter I venture to say that I
                                    have seen nothing for the last three months to get tight on but
                                    pork and beans, vinegar, amp; coffee and though I have been tight on these
                                    frequently yet I dont believe that they have at any time robbed me of reason.
                        You say that it seemes strange that we should have company here. Not strange we have
                                    lots of it. You say that you would have liked to be one of my guests. Thanks for
                                    this kind wish. You ask if I would entertain you if you were here. Not in my rude
                                    tent, Mary—no but leaning upon my arm 
                              
                                 43 Here Hadley is probably referring to his letter of
                                            March 22, 1863.
                           
                                     we would stroll out of camp upon some
                                    neighboring hill, and sitting upon the Sacred Soil, beneath the massive branches of
                                    some old Virginia pine I would try to entertain you. And with thoughts joining in
                                    the same lofty design, with hearts swelling from the same holy cause, with tongues
                                    knowing no language but the purest concord, I believe, Mary, the occasion would be
                                    interesting to both—would it not?
                        You caution me to beware least I meet with a fate similar to one of my friends. There
                                    may be danger amp; I shall beware. Thank you for the advise. It
                                    will be remembered. Yet I have never seen anything that I believed dangerous, but I
                                    may meet it some time. Didn't see the attraction of the
                                    "birds" the first time—'tis true. Didnt get a
                                        Second Sight or I perhaps could have seen it.
                                    Couldn't stay so long. But enough of such nonsense. You are sick of it I
                                    know.
                        Three days ago I was relieved from the Quartermasters Department by the return of
                                    Q.M. Burlingame. The same evening I was redetailed as Acting Adjutant of the
                                    Regiment in which capacity I now am. Adjt [Anderson] Miller is suffering under a
                                    severe indisposition which may confine him for some time." The position as
                                    Adjutant I believe is the most desireable of any in the Millitary Catalogue. At any
                                    rate it has always been my ideal. The Duties are pretty heavy but it is a
                                        "Hoss Office" which makes it desireable.
                        I received an order yesterday and read [it] on Dress Parade among many others, from
                                    [Major] Gen [John F.] Reynolds commanding all public animals to be shod before
                                    Teusday the 14th. This looks like there was work before us. I also received another
                                    order last night to report to Brigade Head Quarters the number of men able to march
                                    in our Reg. My Report was sent in showing 483 men ready for active service. The
                                    roads are drying fast. The weather warm amp; balmy amp; you may look out for [a]
                                    fight.
                        I forgot to mention in my last that Jim Adams had at last got his Commission as 2d Lieut. We have so arranged it as to make my Commission as
                                    1st Lieut. date from the 1st of Oct. 1862. If I dont write next
                                    Sunday—know that I am sick or marching. A happy Sunday to you Mary. Sweet
                                    dreams tonight, dear girl. I am your Vestal
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  44 Adjutant Miller, a native of 
                            Aurora
                        , died of smallpox December 31, 1863. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant
                            General, II, 40.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of the Potomac
                              Pratts Point Va.
                           
                                    April 19, 63
                                
                        Miss Mollie Hill
                        Pittsboro Ind.
                        My dear Mary
                        When I wrote you last Sunday I expected to be on this one fighting the enemy or
                                    following him to 
                                        Richmond
                                    . Such were then our intentions but Fortune and Circumstances has
                                    changed that programme amp; I am still here amp; may still be even on the next but I
                                    think it hardly probable. We got orders to begin the campaign last Teusday. Got
                                    ready, packed up evrything. Knapsacks [and] haversacks with eight days rations.
                                    Tremendeous load—were to march at 4 P.M.—began to rain
                                    terrible. Orders were countermanded. Our Regiment was then sent on Picket. Me in
                                    command of our Company. Didn't cease to rain for the first night amp; day.
                                    We had not a particle of shelter—wind blew cold—my oil-cloth
                                    proved a bad one amp; leaked fearfully.—Became saturated with water amp;
                                    nearly froze.
                        Moved my Head Quarters towards evening to the house of a widow—whose
                                    family consisted of one boy 10 years old. She met me kindly. Talked freely, amp;
                                    familiar. Knew some things and made some pretensions to literature. She
                                    wasn't violent but was purely secesh. Spoke kindly of our Army but had a
                                    brother in the Southern ranks. Staied with her all evening amp; night amp; until I
                                    was relieved. Slept on a feather bed. Ate from a white table cloth. Cut my meat with
                                    case knife amp; drank my coffee from cup board ware. It seemed domestic like and had
                                    it not been for the color of my clothes amp; the rattle of my sword dangling at my
                                    side I really would have felt my self a citizen again.
                        And I tell you, dear Mary, as I sat by a dimly burning fire, all alone and considered
                                    this three years blank of my life, how full of dangers, how full of temptations, how
                                    uncertain its passage, amp; how long it would yet be before I could cry "it
                                    is finished"—it was to me a painful reflection. But I would
                                    forget this threatning Gulf amp; stand on the other side where war was only
                                    remembered. This favorite pair of mine were happy. They were sitting before a
                                    sparkling fire in a cozy little room. The cat froliced. The watch-dog barked.  And evrything necessary to a
                                    happy begining was theirs. Mary this day is very warm. The sun strikes me with
                                    peculiar force and I am fearfully lazy—wish you were here to rest my
                                    head—what an excellent sleep would I have.—Wouldn't
                                    wake for a week if you didn't distrub me.
                        The "lady soldier" has been sent home to her folks.45 Her man remains in the Army. Sorry for the
                                    girl—forced to leave him at last amp; in much worse condition. I
                                    understand [a] contribution fund has been established in the Army to give her boy a
                                    military education. I hope it is so. I have a mite to cast for such a purpose.
                        Health is now good.—All quiet. When we march we carry 13 days rations, 8
                                    in haversacks amp; 5 in waggons. I am with the most tender regards—Yours
                                    J.V.H.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of the Potomac
                              Pratts Point Va.
                           
                                    Ap[ril] 26, 63
                                
                        Miss Mary J Hill
                        Pittsboro Ind.
                        My dear girl
                        I haven't received your letter this week. Am sadly disappointed. Yet it may
                                    come this evening, I think it will. At least I hope it will. Oh it is so hot to day.
                                    We have just returned to Quarters from General Inspection. We'v'
                                    been out since 9 o'clock this morning. Tis now 1 P.M. Sweating and swearing
                                    was the order of the forenoon. Stood in column for three hours with knapsacks. Who
                                    wouldn't swear? Who wouldn't sweat under the scorching rays of
                                    this days sun? But tis over now amp; who cares? Only dread the next one.
                        Havn't any news for you to day. Will go back a few days when I was last on
                                    picket. Tell you of a little incident or 
                              
                                 45 Probably this was the woman mentioned in the
                                            history of the regiment. "Pratt's Point, March 2.
                                            'Quite an exciting and unusual incident is reported as having
                                            occurred on the picket line two or three nights since,' (unusual to
                                            the army, but not with well regulated families,) a soldier gave birth to a
                                            baby. The story ran thus: the soldier belonged to a 
                                                New Jersey
                                             regiment, had been with it nearly a year, and had been in four
                                            battles, so said. Her lover had enlisted, and determined to meet the fates
                                            with him, she donned the male attire, passed examination, and joined the
                                            company with him. It was said no one had suspected anything wrong up to the
                                            very hour of the picket line denoument [sic]."
                                            Thomson, Seventh Indiana, 150-151.
                           
                                     two. It so happened that I had Comamnd of our
                                    Company on that time. Luke couldn't go out. "Had
                                        business" in Camp. My services were not needed as Adjutant on the
                                    Picket line amp; from request took out the Co. A mile of the line fell into my
                                    charge. On my territory there lived an old man with immense wealth amp; a small
                                    family. He had considerable personal property yet left. Was once well fixed to live.
                                    Had many out houses, cribs, graineries, sheds, …c, and 30 or 40 Negroes.
                                    The old man was radically Secesh. Had one son at home Discharged from Stewarts
                                    [Major General J. E. B. Stuart's] rebel Cavelry amp; two more still in the
                                    Southern ranks. Well it so happened that on the night that we took command of his
                                    house that 12 of his most valueable Negroes, hitched up a yoke of fine oxen to the
                                    only cart the old man had left—put in their little Domestics amp; Drove
                                    over to the Provost Marshel of our Corps. Of course they got transportation to 
                                        Washington
                                     and their team turned over to the Quartermaster's Department.
                        On arriving on the line the day previous it was my duty to take a man amp; relieve
                                    one that was posted at the old man's house as a safe guard. I detailed John
                                    Ridgeway of Browns-burg as good looking and fine a man as is in the Camp. Was
                                    escorted over by the relieved Lieut—introduced to the
                                    family—highly recommended [and] received kindly. And evry thing promised
                                    me rustic enjoyment (for by the way there was a young daughter, 20 years old, who
                                    smiled and courtecied when my friend Lieut Smith 34 N. Y. remarked "that
                                    you will find good protection in the hands of my young friend Hadley["].)
                                    Sat 10 minutes with the family. Promised to call frequently. Went to my
                                    post—spent the night as usual in the rain.
                        Still rained hard in the morning. Concluded to go over to Bullards and stay while it
                                    rained so hard. Says I "Dave hurry amp; prepare our coffee for I must go
                                    over amp; see how Ridgeway gets along". Coffee soon ready—drank
                                    it, filled my pipe—started. Arrived at the
                                    house—darted in out of the pelting rain with a light heart. Felt that I
                                    had shelter for the day. No body in the room but Ridgeway. He arose laughing amp;
                                    remarked "Hadley there is Hell here this morning. The old man's
                                    negroes ran away last night—took his oxen amp; cart. They accuse us of
                                    causing it—mad—furious".
                        
                        Just here we heard a low rumbling noise in some other apartment which sounded much
                                    like the frighful noise of a hundred horse in a desperate charge. As it neared us,
                                    however, we found that it proceeded only from, chairs, churns, tables, stools,
                                    …c flying before the approach of four infuriated demons. Father, mother,
                                    sister, brother, came dashing headlong into the room with faces red amp; fiery as a
                                    boiled lobster and tongues making a worse jargon than was heard at the tower of
                                    Babel. Louder and more threatning than was made by the two Devils among the tombs.
                                    Ridgeway sceized his faithful musket, amp; prepared for the conflict. My sword was
                                    snatched from its sheath for I thought there would be sharp work for it to do. And
                                    both standing at a guard we prepared for the conflict.
                        Soon discovered that words would be the only arms used. Met them best we could. Scene
                                    closed by me ordering the guard to camp. They now be came suppliant. Said they would
                                    take back all that was said amp; feel sorry for it. Begged Ridgeway to stay amp; me
                                    to let him. But I wasn't "letten" like
                                    I was. Ridgeway wasn't "stayen" like he
                                    was. Could tell you what they said but wont here. Want something to tell you when I
                                    again sit by your side.
                        Hadn't been half an hour from the house when I saw the boys charging on his
                                    out houses. It was raining. They didnt leave a board on top or side. Also carried
                                    off all his garden fence for fire. I didn't care—glad to see it.
                                    Went over to [Brigadier] Gen. [James S.] Wadsworth and reported me. Expected to be
                                    Court Martialed for taking the Guarg [Guard] off without proper authority. I sent a
                                    statement of the facts to the Gen. Guess they were satisfactory. Grand Officer of
                                    the Pickets endorsed my actions. [Brigadier] Gen [Ly-sander] Cutler said I did
                                    right. Don't care—wouldn't guard such a man if [Major]
                                    Gen [Joseph] Hooker would give me possitive orders.
                        Mary what would you say if I were to accept with an Adjutantcy of a Negro Regt? I am
                                    still Acting Adjutant of our Regt. Must close—Happy Dreames to night, I
                                    salute you.
                        
                                    J. Vestal46
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  46 Included among Hadley's letters is another description of the
                        incident at the old man's house. This material has been omitted since the beginning of
                        the letter is missing and much of the language is the same as that given in the April 26, 1863,
                        letter. From internal evidence it appears that the omitted description was part of a letter
                        written to Mollie a day or so after the other one.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of the Potomac.
                              Near Falmoth Va.
                           
                                    May 10th/63
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Pittsboro Ind
                        My dear Mary
                        The battle was a desperate one. In many instances the carnage was the greatest of
                                    this war. For Seven successive days, begining on the 29 of April amp; ending on the
                                    5th of May, clouds of smoke could be seen rising from the battlefields along the
                                    Rappahannock and yet strange to say, Fortune so willed that the 1st Army Corps
                                    should not be hotly engaged.47
                        
                        During the entire 7 days, there were but 12 hours that we were not under the enemie
                                    fire and during all we lost but one killed and a dozen wounded in our Regiment. Two
                                    brothers in Co G—Higden [Benjamin and Daniel Higdon] by name-one killed
                                    amp; the other severely wounded by the same shell48—no one hurt in our Company. Battle of the Wilderness on Sunday
                                    Morning was terrible. On an elevation of 60 ft we had in position 36 peices of
                                    Artillery. It was the only place in the neighborhood was a gun could work with
                                    advantage—so level and wooded. It was in our center—Rebels
                                    wanted the position as they wanted the guns. Our Center once broken, this position
                                    once lost, amp; our pontoon bridges would at once be sceized, but 3 miles in the
                                    rear our Army divided amp; cut off, whip[p]ed and destroyed would have been the
                                    result.
                        The enemy saw amp; knew this and the way they fought for it will never be forgotten
                                    by history. Our batteries were heavily entrenched and 15,000 infantry defended them
                                    standing behind piles of oaken logs which were impregnable against bullets and
                                    shell. Notwithstanding our position amp; strength the Rebels presumed to charge it
                                    12 times on Sunday amp; four times on Monday, before they would yield the hope of
                                        
                              
                                 47 Hadley's reference is to the multistage
                                            Battle of Chancellorsville in 
                                                Virginia
                                            . The major fighting occurred May 1-4, 1863. Confederate losses
                                            were 1,581 killed, 8,700 wounded, and 2,136 missing. Federal casualties
                                            totaled 1,575 killed, 9,559 wounded, and 5,711 missing. The Seventh Indiana
                                            lost 1 killed and 4 wounded. Official Records, Ser. I,
                                            Vol. XXV, pt. 1, pp. 173, 185, 191, 809, 854, 1051. For a human and
                                            excellent summary of the Chancellorsville campaign, see Otto Eisenschiml and
                                            Ralph Newman, The American Iliad (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1947), 378-414.
                              
                                 48 Private Benjamin Higdon, of 
                                                Decatur County
                                            , was killed in action. His brother, Private Daniel Higdon, was
                                            wounded but returned to duty and served out his enlistment. Thomson, Seventh Indiana, xxviii.
                           
                                     posessing it. We lay about 1/4 of a mile to the
                                    right of the batteries amp; formed part of their support. Could easily see amp; hear
                                    the charges. 'Twas beyond discription. In column[s] of Regiments they would
                                    march up within 400 yds of the 36 guns, unmolested. Then they would all open with a
                                    double charge of canister amp; the havoc would be frightful. Sometimes they would
                                    almost reach the mouth of the guns before beaten back which once commenced our
                                    infantry would charge them from behind their works with great effect making many
                                    prisoners—nearly 3,000 in all-one Brigadier Gen [and] 4 Cols—6
                                    stands of Colors amp; 4 peices of artillery.
                        The destruction before these batteries is said to be without parallel. I
                                    didn't visit the field myself—did want to—but I have
                                    it from authority that in one place 8 rebels were found lying upon each other just
                                    as they were killed. This may be exagerated—perhaps it is but 16 charges
                                    as desperate as was made by the rebels on such powerfull workers of death, is
                                    expected to cover the field with slain. I should like to speak of the battle in
                                    detail, but I have just given it to my sister amp; am tired—it grows very
                                    long when all told.
                        The principal object of our move was in my opinion a failure. We fell back across the
                                    Rappahannock this is plain amp; certain, but the object is not so possitively known.
                                    Some crowned heads assert that Hooker accomplished all he planed, but I
                                    can't see it. He surely was not fool enough to march his army over to fight
                                    for fun or favor. He surely was not knave enough to order [Major General John]
                                    Sedgwick to charge the Hights just be cause it could be done.49
                                    No he had his plans admireably laid and would have made a complete success had the
                                    11th Corps proved "warriors worthy of their Steel".50
                        
                        Victory was once ours. Hooker with five Corps, on Sunday the 3d, was 10 miles to the
                                    right of Fredricksburg, 
                              
                                 49 While Hooker's major force moved through
                                            the Wilderness in search of Lee's army, Sedgwick's Sixth
                                            Corps assailed and finally carried the heights to the east at
                                                    
                                    Fredericksburg,
                                                    Virginia
                                 . Yet
                                            Sedgwick's subsequent advance was checked in bloody fighting at 
                                                Salem
                                             Church on May 3-4.
                              
                                 50 Major General Oliver Otis Howard's
                                            Eleventh Corps, which formed the extreme right of Hooker's line,
                                            caught the full onslaught of "Stonewall" 
                                                Jackson
                                            's most successful flank attack. Half a century later
                                            Howard wrote about the surprise Confederate assault: "It was a
                                            terrible gale! the rush, the rattle, the quick lightning from a hundred
                                            points at once; the roar, redoubled by echoes through the forest; the panic,
                                            the dead and dying in sight and the wounded straggling along; the frantic
                                            efforts of the brave and patriotic to stay the angry storm!"
                                            [Oliver Otis Howard], Autobiography of Oliver Otis Howard
                                            (2 vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , 190'7)' I, 370-371.
                           
                                     holding the enemy at bay. Sedgwick with the 6th
                                    Corps charged the Hights Saturday night and carried them and Sunday the Stars amp;
                                    Stripes floated over the rebel strong hold. Our Corps the 1st was a cross the river
                                    one mile below Sed[g]wick and was his support.
                        11th Corps most disgracefully ran in panic-periled Hookers center.—Our
                                    Corps was withdrawn from Sedgwick to Hooke[r]s support.—Marched on a
                                    double quick. Consequence was—enemy concentrated against
                                    Sedgwick—drove him from the Hights—almost ruined him.
                        Tis easy to trace the cause of our failure amp; it must rest though heavy upon
                                    rightful shoulders. It was no fault of Hookers. Joe is a fighting man and a General.
                                    Better plans could not be laid. The world should know this for it is true. [He?]
                                    drew the enemy from their works to fight us on fair grounds or behind works. They
                                    gained the Hights with but a few drops of blood but all was lost by the fiendish
                                    cowardise of the 11th Corps. Our loss was heavy with Sedgwick also in the 11, 12,
                                    amp; 3 Corps caused again by the runing of the 11 [Corps].
                        11th formed the center, 12th Right, 3 left, amp; when center gave way right amp; left
                                    were flanked. Our loss was probably 15,000 of whom, in my opinion 10,000 are
                                    prisoners. We captured 5,000 men—30 peices of artillery
                                    …c—papers will tell you all about this. The Army is generally
                                    occupying i[t]s former positions. Our Corps I believe is all who didn't
                                    return. We now lie a half mile from the Rapp [ahannock] river amp; two miles below
                                    Fredrick[sburg]. Dont know when we'll move again—some think
                                    soon. For the present I remain your affectionate John.
                        Your letter of the 29 ult was recd last evening. Thanks for its warmth of feeling. If
                                    my letters don't come regular you will judge the reason amp; not fail to
                                    write. J.V.H
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of the Potomac
                              Falmouth Va.
                           
                                    May 24/63
                                
                        Miss Mary J Hill
                        Pittsboro Ind.
                        My dear Mary
                        Our Regiment being on Picket last Sunday I was prevented from writing you and as I
                                    had no news to commu[ni]cate I thought it unnecessary to write during the week. And
                                    in fact I've felt but little like writing letters for  the last three weeks, and write only to a particular
                                    few, and to those only on those rare occasions when I felt that necessity or
                                    obligation compells me to do so.
                        I have been confoundedly "blue" of later days I
                                    acknowledge—so sadly disappointed in our last move against the enemy.
                                    Often have I reviewed the proud Columns of the Army of the Potomac under Hooker,
                                    with pride, for in it I recognized the most efficient that ever bore that name. I
                                    believed, that for it to march was to certain victory. Gigantac in numbers, powerful
                                    in strength, uneaqualed in discipline, faultless in equipment, strangely
                                    enthusiastic,—I had a right to expect for it to do battle was to gain
                                    victory. But we marched, we fought, we failed. We were not defeated but we did not
                                    defeat. A failure we must acknowledge inasmuch as it was our intention to route the
                                    enemy which we didn't do. There is no doubt but they feel our blow heavier
                                    than we feel theirs for they have already acknowledged that the death of 
                                        Jackson
                                     was to them a greater loss, than the whole of Hookers' [army]
                                    would be to us… .51
                        
                        Our boys and the rebs have grown great friends since we were last over the river. Our
                                    camp is now but a half mile from the Rappa[hannock] and we can see them at any time
                                    or in any numbers by going to the river. A friend and I went down yesterday on horse
                                    back and as we sat mounted watching the rebs fishing with a sein a couple of secesh
                                    officers came dashing up on the other side to see the fun. Here we sat for a half an
                                    hour, within stone throws distance of each other and I couldnt realize that we were
                                    enemies. We have orders not to communicate but 2 boys did it last Sunday in spite of
                                    orders.
                        The officers would retire and let the boys go in. They ate, drank, smoked, played,
                                    bathed, together. Exchanged pipes, knives, rings, and coffee for tobacco and the
                                    occasion was marked with as much hilarity as if it had been the meeting of long
                                    absent brothers. Our friends were the 7th La. Distinguished as our antagonists
                                    always in battle and friends on picket. In the Reg. we found two Hendricks County
                                    boys. One [was] Jim Givens, 1st Lieut Co. F 7th La. who used to be much about 
                                        Danville
                                     and another [was named] 
                              
                                 51 On the night of May 2, 1863, 
                                                Jackson
                                             was accidentally shot by his own men. The amputation of his
                                            left arm produced pneumonia, and he died eight days later.
                           
                                     Lindley.52 They had many
                                    questions to ask about the County &c.
                        Regiments are daily leaving us for home. Inside of 20 days all the 2 years amp; 9
                                    monthes men, 60,000 or 70,000 strong will be Home ward-bound. Army
                                    quiet—no signs of a move. Health good amp; weather hot. A merry Sunday is
                                    wished you by your devoted friend Vestal
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of the Potomac
                              Falmouth Va
                           
                                    June 7th/63
                                
                        Mary J Hill
                        Pittsboro Ind.
                        Dearest Mary
                        I snatch an opportunity this morning of dropping you a line, for it is Sunday and may
                                    be the last too for some time upon which I can discharge this sacred duty. Our Army
                                    is again in commotion where it is going I can not tell you—neither do I
                                    know. But one thing I do know amp; that is, the 6th Corps has again crossed the
                                    Rappahannock amp; we are laying under arms ready to cross. The main body of the
                                    Rebel Army we think has moved amp; ere this reaches you I should not be at all
                                    surprised that you will hear of another bloody battle fought upon the twice gore
                                    stained field of Bull Run. I must not tell you what I believe to be the task of the
                                    1st amp; 6th Corps, for such is at present contraband to letter
                                    writers—but I hope my view of the matter is correct amp; that it will
                                    meet with success.
                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                        You asked me what I now think of the battle. I think it was a failure but not a
                                    defeat. But am not without hope—believe that all will yet be retrieved
                                    amp; that the Army of the Potomac will yet redeem itself.
                        Did we go back to our old Camp? No. We pitched our camp two miles below Falmouth amp;
                                    a half mile from the Rappahannock. Do I look as well amp; have my health as good as
                                    when I was at home last winter? My looks, I would think, 
                              
                                 52 The Compiled Service Records of Confederate
                                            Soldiers (National Archives, 
                                                Washington
                                            ) lists neither a "Givens" nor a
                                            "Lindley" as serving in the Seventh 
                                                Louisiana
                                            . A Lieutenant John D. Givens and a Private Battle B. Lindsey
                                            were members of the Twelfth 
                                                Louisiana
                                            , but no record exists of this unit being in Virginia during the
                                            period in question.
                           
                                     have not materially changed—but I
                                    can't see the well you speak of.—My health, if
                                    it is bad, I'm not aware of it. Guess if you were to see the quantity of
                                    food that I consume daily you wouldn't think it very delicate.
                        Mary I write this note on my knee—it is short amp; without interest, but
                                    in it is infolded a kiss budded from a loving heart which I wish to give you for the
                                    trouble of reading it. Good by Dear Mary. Your image will prompt me to do my duty in
                                    the coming conflict if come it must. I am your John
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Boonsboro Md
                           
                                    July 9th, 63
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Dear girl
                        No mail has left us for a month nor promises too for a month to come. While we rest a
                                    moment by the road side I write you this note as a citizen among us promises to mail
                                    it for me. I passed through the great battle amp; have shared in the glorious
                                        victory.53 Cant give any particulars now—nobody
                                    hurt from your part of the county. Our victory amounted to about this. In killing
                                    amp; wounding 25,000 of the enemy [and] capturing 12,000. Nearly all his train amp;
                                    pack animals, considerable artillery, amp; 2,000 horses. Add this together amp; then
                                    tell us of a more glorious victory. Western Army look well to your laurels or the
                                    Cowardly Army of the Potomac (as they are pleased to call us) will eclips them. Will
                                    write again the first opportunity. Heavens' blessing on you My dear Mary.
                        
                                    John
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of the Potomac
                              Warrenton Junction Va
                           
                                    Jl 26 1863
                                
                        Miss Mollie J Hill
                        Pittsboro Ind
                        My dearest
                        I cannot delay longer in writing you a short note. I droped a note to you immediately
                                    after the battle of 
                                        Gettysburg
                                    
                                    
                              
                                 53 It is unfortunate that Hadley did not pen
                                            reminiscences of the July 1-3 Battle of 
                                                Gettysburg
                                             in 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            . As part of the Federal First Corps, the Seventh Indiana lost 2
                                            killed, 5 wounded, and 3 missing. The engagement took a combined toll of
                                            43,500 casualties, Federal and Confederate. Official
                                            Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXVII, pt: 1, pp. 155, 173, 187, pt. 2, p. 346.
                                            For the Hoosier regiment's participation, see Ibid., pt. 1, pp. 281-286.
                           
                                     but it was placed in strange hands to mail and
                                    I have no assurance that it ever reached you.
                        Appreciating the anxiety that you may probably feel in my behalf I have been more
                                    than desireous of writing you for the last month but it has been impossible. And
                                    today I have but time enough to tell you that I still live, that my health is
                                    unimpared, that it was never better, that we are still trying to do something for
                                    this rebellion, that we are still active, &c.
                        We are considerably worn and wasted. Many sore feet and slim jaws but none sick or
                                    disabled. I have hardly seen a sick man since we left Falmouth. Strange but true.
                                    Since the 12 of June up to this date we have marched 326 miles and bid fair to make
                                    another hundred before we stop or end the campaign. I needn't tell you
                                    anything about where our Army lies or where the rebels are for they change evry day
                                    amp; ere this reaches you it would be old. The particulars of the 
                                        Gettysburg
                                     battle I mean to give you in detail as soon as circumstances will
                                    permit. There are some incidents connected with that affair that are worth relating
                                    or at any rate I am going to relate them "when quiet comes and heated steel
                                    is cooling".
                        We are stopped here but for a single day to draw rations amp; then "on to 
                                        Richmond
                                    ". Dont know when we 11 get there but I guess as soon as
                                    practicable. We have excellent times here when we halt in picking blackberries which
                                    abound in Virginia as they do in no other State. I have stood in one spot amp;
                                    picked a quart of larger berries than I ever saw in Indiana. They are most excellent
                                    and most timely for us fellows.
                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                        Jim [Adams] and the boys of Pittsboro are all able to act well their part. Jim is now
                                    on picket. Write me often. You have plenty of time amp; chance. I have almost none
                                    or as good [as] none. I close. I am yours. J.V.H.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of the Potomac
                              Rappahannock St.[ation]
                           
                                    Aug. 9th 1863
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Dearest
                        for the last 10 days we have been doing Outpost Duty and I couldnt possibly write
                                    sooner for want of pen and  paper. Not a Team,
                                        Sutler,54 or News boy was permited to come near us either
                                    fearing to be seen—or fearing a shot from the enemy.
                        While out we didn't do much in the shooting business. But now amp; then an
                                    occasional shot from some tired picket. The Cavelry boys on our right quareled with
                                    the enemy some and last Thursday night captured 8 because they insisted on standing
                                    picket upon the same post. Our Out-post at this point is a mile amp; a half South of
                                    the Rappa[hannock]. We were relieved yesterday from duty there and came back to the
                                    North bank of the river and established ourselves in camp. I think we'll
                                    rest here for some time.—Can't see why or where we'll
                                    move. It wont do to move on [General Robert E.] Lee—now fortified on the
                                    Rapidan for he is too many for us. We will not try to flank him for it
                                    wouldn't be expedient just now.
                        Conscripts are rapidly arriving to fill up the Yankee Regiments to 7,000 each.55 When once completed we will be a powerful Army—in
                                    numbers if nothing else. At present the Regts. in our Army average 300 men.
                        Mary it is killingly hot to-day. And as I sit out in the middle of a parched field,
                                    under my little shelter tent, with my whole system apparently melting I think that
                                    if I could but feel the touch of a single breeze that fans the beach [beech] in your
                                    yard that I should be made one of the most comfortable and happiest being [s] in the
                                    world.
                        There is no place that I have ever been where the Sun seemes so much like striking to
                                    the heart as in these baren amp; desolated fields of Va. With but few trees large
                                    enough to make a shade and the fields covered with rock the sun has nothing to
                                    resist it and when the rocks once become properly heated, it is like living in an
                                    oven to live in Summer along the Rappahannock.
                        Sweat and swear is the occupation of the Army now. Heat is not the only anoyance.
                                    Musquetoes, oh musquetoes. I have read of the Musquetoes of the Arkansaw swamps and
                                    have heard something of those that infest region of the Nile 
                              
                                 54 Sutlers were civilians who followed an army with
                                            wagons laden with all sorts of goods. They reaped rich profits at the
                                            soldiers' expense.
                              
                                 55 On March 3, 1863, as a result of "the
                                            necessity of some more thorough and vigorous system of
                                            recruitment," Congress passed a conscription bill known as the
                                            "Enrollment Act." The one major flaw in this sweeping
                                            legislation was that any person could exempt himself from military service
                                            by furnishing a substitute or by paying a $300 commutation.
                                            Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I, 46-66.
                           
                                     but I never came in contact with such gigantic
                                    cannibals, such Mammoth blood suckers, such unprincipaled glutons as the Musquetoes
                                    of the Rappahannock. Our camp kettles amp; mess pans have all very mysteriously
                                    disappeared and Col. Ashby (Tom) very mournfully remarked the other day that he knew
                                    what had become of them. Said that they had all been worn out by the Musquetoes
                                    wheating their bills on them. The only way that a picket can sleep is to build a
                                    circular fire amp; then lay down in the ring. Smoke drives them away.
                        You asked me what I think of the war by this time. When I am to come home to stay
                                    with—oh you know who. Well in my opinion the prospects of an early peace
                                    is better now than they ever were before. Still there is much yet to do. The fall of 
                                        Vicksburg
                                    , the surrender of Port Hudson, the defeat of Lee, the demoralization of
                                    [General Braxton] Bragg, the disaffection of 
                                        North Carolina
                                    —are all crushing blows to the Confederacy but they can amp;
                                    will stand more and still harder ones. Mobeal [Mobile], Savan[n]ah, 
                                        Charleston
                                    , and 
                                        Wilmington
                                     must be reduced and their ports blockaded. [Major General Ulysses S.]
                                    Grant must push into Miss[iss]ippi, [Major General William S.] Rosencrans
                                    [Rosecrans] into 
                                        Georgia
                                     amp; 
                                        Alabama
                                    , amp; [Brigadier General George G.] Meade to 
                                        Richmond
                                    . And when this is done, then indeed we may expect to see the beginning
                                    of the end.
                        No mortal has a more consuming desire to live to see the Armed Minions of our
                                    Government returning to their friends and families and to be one of them. Im tired
                                    of war. Im tired of wearing away my life in loneliness when it might be blessed with
                                    Angelic society. I watch, I hope, I fear, I wait anxiously for the Angel of peace.
                                    May your guardian Angel whisper to you this evening the name of your Devoted
                        
                                    J.V.H.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of the Potomac
                              Rappahannock St Va
                           
                                    Aug. 23d 1863
                                
                        Miss Mary J Hill
                        Pittsboro Ind.
                        My dearest
                        Three weekly mails from Pittsboro have been received but neither has brought me any
                                    intelligence from you. Three weekly letters have been written and mailed, but
                                    neither has received an acknowledgement from you.
                        
                        How painful this delay. When in health, your promptness to write forces me now to
                                    believe that illness can be the only cause. How serious this illness I have no means
                                    of judging but hope it may be slight and soon pass. Mary when possible do not
                                    neglect your duty. Remember that your letters are to me a source of happiness that
                                    nothing can possibly replace. Remember that their delay is the source of my greatest
                                    punishment.
                        One whose interests have been so closely studied, one whose happiness seems of so
                                    much importance to me, one whose life seemes to be the great Arbitrator who is to
                                    decide my life desirable or worthless—cannot be forgotten, neglected, or
                                    disregarded by me.
                        I will write once a week when it is possible. This I have promised to do, and if you
                                    can but reciprocate the sentiments that I have so often expressed I need not again
                                    urge it upon you. If I had but one line to answer from you this morning, my task
                                    would not be half so heavy.
                        Mary I am not a believer in dreams this I believe I have before told you nor do I
                                    attach any importance to their Revelations, but I had one the other night so
                                    singular so unlike any I ever before had in the service that I make no excuse for
                                    unfolding it to you.
                        I was on Picket four miles from Camp sleeping on the Second floor of a deserted farm
                                    house that had once no doubt been the theater of pride and Southern licentiousness.
                                    The war was over. Peace was smiling in the door of evry household. Our bloody hands
                                    had been washed in the waters of the Potomac. Our sabres had been returned to their
                                    scabbards. Our arms stacked on completely and honorably finishing our task we
                                    boarded the cars for home.
                        
                        There was singing and dancing and "much merry making". Evry heart
                                    danced light upon the expectations of soon seeing the "loved ones at
                                    home". 48 hours and we were at 
                                        Danville
                                    . There were many people there, many strange faces, many familliar ones.
                                    But how disappointed the soldiers.
                        The bright eyes they expected would "mark their coming and look brighter
                                    when the[y] come" discerned us not, only to shun us. The hearts that we
                                    expected to see swell with gratitude for what we had done in restoring their
                                    Government were turned aside in cold and haughty indifference. The tongues, which we
                                    expected would be busy in welcoming us among them again were mute only in
                                    blaspheming the name of Soldier. Mothers were there, but they prefered the hand  of the son who had stayed by her side. Sisters
                                    were there but they prefered the sosiety of brothers who remained dreaming behind
                                    amp; had not the tawny amp; worn look of the soldier.
                        Maidens were there whoes hearts had once been given, but were now reclaimed amp;
                                    posessed by those who hated the profession of war. Shuned and disowned by all we
                                    turned, enraged, heart-broken and distressed, from the mothers who bore us, from the
                                    board that had nourished us, from the friends that had once owned us; and when I
                                    awoke we were tossing on a bark which was bearing us to Sanfransisco [
                                        San Francisco
                                    ].
                        It's later. Of course I don't believe anything it
                                    tells—glad I don't. If I did I'll bet I
                                    wouldn't sweat another hour under this little yard of canvass. I ll bet I
                                    woundn't march another mile through suffocating dust to save the Union. I
                                    ll bet I wouldn't stand again before the enemy amp; offer my life for a
                                    principal no better appreciated. But instead thereof, I can sweat amp; march, amp;
                                    fight evryday with increased enthusiasm.
                        We re doing nothing—nor wil we in my opinion for some time to come.
                                    Weather dry amp; very hot. Health good. May the angels of Heaven crown you with the
                                    completest happiness and make you believe that I am sincerely yours.
                        
                                    J V H
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of the Potomac
                              Rappk. St Va.
                           
                                    Aug 25 1863
                                
                        Miss Mary J Hill
                        Pittsboro Ind
                        Darling Mary
                        Your long looked for letter was received but yesterday. In addition to the usual
                                    interest I find in your dear good letters, was the reception of your photograph. It
                                    was a long time before I could persuade my self that that was the shadow of my Mary.
                                    So changed. So unlike the rosy tinted girl I had in my posession. But the change is
                                    not for the worse—happy to say it. The girl has given place to the woman.
                                    Such female physical power—such prominent intelligence—such
                                    exponents of genuine goodness—such blossomes for the richest harvest of
                                        love—are rarely found associated in sex. I m proud
                                    of the picture as I am proud of you amp; vie with lieged lords in the posession of
                                    the noblest sweetheart.
                        
                        Mary, you seeme to have a passion for hospital Duty amp; do me the honor of asking my
                                    opinion in regard to its propriety. I am ever ready to render advise when asked for
                                    but in this case I feel a little loath.
                        I don't like to shape your actions or influence you from the path of duty
                                    which seemes plain, while such relations exist between us and while I know it will
                                    be contrary to your wishes. Not that I oppose the system of female
                                    nursing—for it is good and noble as well as consoling and comforting to
                                    the soldier. There are thousands of obsticles that would rise before you that you
                                    never behold in your sympathetic fancy. Having been 10 weeks a patient in hospital I
                                    should know something of its character amp; being constantly attended by females I
                                    should judge whether it would suit you or whether you would suit the soldiers. That
                                    you would give satisfaction I am sure—this I know but that you would
                                    receive satisfaction I am not so sure.
                        If none but gentlemen found their way to hospitals it would be easy enough, pleasant
                                    enough, safe enough, but some of our meanest society is always there—men
                                    who have no respect for female presence or female modesty. To make a bed, to carry a
                                    cup of water, to prepare a nice toast or steak would be the easiest thing out of a
                                    hundred that you would be called on to do. The labor is most fatiguing as well as
                                    embarrassing and while I know that you are not unwilling to do yet
                                    by the labor you would be worn amp; wearied and while I know you are not fastidious,
                                    there are hospital scenes of hourly occurrance that would be unpleasant to one
                                    raised in modest retirement.
                        And the hospital is such a place to shade the heart and fetter joys. Sadness is King and Melancholy Queen, and to their rule
                                    you are as all are the most crouching vassal. Last farewell words,
                                        agonizing groans, frenzied screames, dying strugles, laying
                                    out of the dead, &c. are their constant amusements and you the constant
                                    spectator.-Have you nerve enough for such things?—study well.
                        Were you to spend six months in hospital I should expect to find
                                    you in a nunnery wearing the emblems of the sisterhood of
                                    Charity—never expect to see your face smile or radiate happiness again.
                        There are those who love to feel sad and mour[n]—who prefer it to any
                                    other life-who have lost irreparable happiness—such are fitted for
                                    hospitals and such only, I  believe, can enjoy
                                    the life. But dont let me influence you. If you want to go amp; have good company to
                                    go with I say go amp; my best wishes shall go with you my darling.
                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                        I m on picket again—got the—toothache. I salute you.
                        
                                    John
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              On Picket. Near Rappahk[.] St. Va
                           
                                    Sept 13th 1863
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Pittsboro Ind
                        Dearest Mary
                        If the enemy gives fight this sabath is to be commemorated by another battle from the
                                    Army of the Potomac. The Cavelry Corps is now drawn up in Mass Column in front of my
                                    Picket Post and scarcely a hundred yards from where I sit the 2d Infantry Corps is
                                    filing out side the lines with flying Colors amp; glistning steel.
                        Before I am half done this hurried letter I shall expect to hear the begining of the
                                    fight. Can't believe it is a general move. Think it is a heavy reconnosance
                                    to learn the enemies' whereabouts. As far as I can learn our Corps has not
                                    yet received marching orders. At any rate we've received none on the Picket
                                    line.
                        I hope we will not receive marching orders for we have just completed the nicest
                                    Regimental Quarters in the world—none can beat them I defy the world.
                                    Evry available man has worked hard for a week upon them amp; just last evening
                                    pronounced them done. Wish you could see them. Instead of appearing like a camp of
                                    rusty soldiers it looks like a city of magnifficent splendor—shall not
                                    attempt to describe them—for we are going to have them photographed if
                                    possible amp; if we succeed I shall send you one. As I expected.
                                    Away goes a shell screaming in direction of the rebel Pickets. Another comes howling
                                    towards our Cavelry.
                        My darling you ask me when. Oh how I wish I could say now. If it
                                    were even to-morrow I would be sorry. And as it must be many morrows hence it pains
                                    me to the hearts' core to think of it. One long year from
                                    this date I belong to the army amp; if kind 
                                        Providence
                                     favors me so much as to lead me out unharmed, I should not wish to
                                    delay the consumation of our happiness a single day.
                        
                        
                        Tis true I am not yet done study—much of it to do before I am ready to
                                    meet the world. But I believe that I can study as well if you bake my biscuits amp;
                                    make my beds as if they are done by other hands. What think you?
                        The cannonade in front is becoming savage—the Rebel Pickets fall back
                                    stubbornly. So much excitement I can't write more. Farewell my
                                    dear—John
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Raccoon ford, Rapidan River Va
                           
                                    Sept. 27th 1863
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Pittsboro Ind.
                        My dearest
                        I write you today from the Rapidan where I believe I addressed you a little more than
                                    a year ago. Three days ago we were given 15 minutes to get ready to march from
                                    Culpepper [Culpeper] and though no immediate danger was apprehended, it was believed
                                    that our move was a necessity. 15 minutes passed amp; we were filing out of camp and
                                    continued a brisk march Southward 6 miles, when the hights of the Rapidan thickly
                                    studded with cannons and bayonets rose frowningly before us. We all believed that
                                    our mission was to cross the river amp; give the enemy battle but to our great
                                    surprise we relieved the 12th Corps who pulled up amp; went back to the rear.
                                    Reports tell us today that the 12th amp; 11th [Corps] have taken cars at Bristow
                                    [Bristoe] St. for Rosecrans' Department. Can hardly give it credit but it
                                    may be so.56
                        
                        Our situation is a little more mysterious to me now than ever before. Don't
                                    know where our army is—know it isn't here—none but
                                    the 1st Corps. If a portion of it is not going to Rosecrans I believe it is trying
                                    to flank the enemy here. Probably by way of Fredricksburg as I hear there are no
                                    rebels in that vicinity. God knows where it is going no body els I guess. We must do
                                    something here—times and circumstances demand it. Rosecrans has been
                                    whipped—badly too. 
                              
                                 56 On September 24, 1863, Major Generals O. O. Howard
                                            and Henry W. Slocum, commanding the Eleventh and Twelfth corps respectively,
                                            received orders to reinforce Major General William S. Rosecrans'
                                            army at 
                                    Chattanooga, Tennessee
                                 . Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXIX, pt. 1, pp. 160, 184, Vol.
                                            XXX, pt. 1, p. 37.
                           
                                     A bit of Lee's Army has gone down
                                    there and showed them a little earnest fighting.
                        That army as well as the Army of the Miss. has looked upon the Army of the Potomac as
                                    a multitude of cowards because of so many failures. When at the
                                    same time we can take them to a half dozen fields and count more killed amp; wounded
                                    on each than they can in all their bo[a]sted
                                    engagements. 
                                        Antietam
                                    , Fredricksburg, Chancellorsville, and 
                                        Gettysburg
                                     are among them. At 
                                        Gettysburg
                                     alone the rebels acknowledged a loss of 30,000 men, while ours was
                                    20,000 amp; we fought altogether on the defensive which gave us great advantage.
                                    Consider these figures for a moment and remember that in all the campaigns and
                                    battles, Champion Hill, Bakers' Creak [Creek], Port Gipson, 
                                        Jackson
                                    , Big Black, and the entire seige of 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     which was [described?] by them as awful, all told,
                                    there were but (1050) one thousand amp; fifty men killed, amp; five thousand
                                    wounded. This was Grants official report. A little more than one
                                    fourth in six awful battles than we lost in a single one. And
                                    a little more than one fifth as many as we disabled in a single
                                    battle. And still they say we wont fight. And it must be remembered too that we
                                    fought the battle of 
                                        Gettysburg
                                     with 40,000 men while they seiged 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     with 70,000. They fight a cowardly enemy with a superior force. We
                                    fight with an inferior force the bravest of the brave. There's the
                                        difference.57
                        
                        Natural enough I feel pride in western troops. They have done their duty amp; done it
                                    well but it has not been of the severest kind, but I believe that if the Army of the
                                    Potomac had been composed entirely of western men that its history would have been
                                    no brighter than it is. One thing I know that Yankee valor is just as
                                        good as western amp; it greatly displeases me to see so much abuse thrown
                                    upon it by western knownothings. A few days ago I noticed in a
                                    letter from the 
                              
                                 57 Hadley's tirade was typical of the keen
                                            jealousy that existed between the Eastern and Western armies. His slight
                                            juggling of statistics is therefore understandable. At 
                                                Gettysburg
                                             Confederate losses numbered 20,451 men, while the Federals
                                            suffered 23,049 casualties. In the course of the 
                                                Vicksburg
                                             campaign, Grant lost a total of 9,362 men. Meade, commanding
                                            the Army of the Potomac, officially reported 84,158 men "present
                                            for duty equipped" at 
                                                Gettysburg
                                            . On April 30, 1863, Grant listed 97,344 men present for duty in
                                            his western department. Most of these troops were besieging 
                                                Vicksburg
                                            , defended by 30,000 Confederates. Official
                                            Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXIV, pt. 2, p. 167, pt. 3, p. 249, Vol. XXVII,
                                            pt. 1, pp. 151, 187, pt. 2, p. 346.
                           
                                     "Mighty 11th Ind" that they
                                    had been Reviewed twice amp; the writer was afraid that if they were Reviewed again
                                    they would become as worthless as the Army of the Potomac. Who
                                    ever the writer is, is a fool for the want of knowledge, a braggart, amp;
                                    I'll bet a coward.
                        
                        By the way I was up to witness the execution of private [Charles] Williams of the 4th
                                    Md Vol. 3d Div. 1st Corps who was sentenced to "be shot to death with
                                    Musketry" for desertion.58 There was a little more
                                    circumstance than pomp about the occasion. The entire Div was out, amp; drawn up
                                    forming 3 sides of a hallow [sic] square. At 4 P.M. the convict
                                    amp; company made their appearance at the open end of the square in the following
                                    order. In front was a band discoursing a dirge that seemed to proceed from crying
                                    instruments. Next were four men bearing a rough emty coffin immediately behind which
                                    walked the doomed man with hands fastened behind him. Behind him were six files or
                                    12 men, the firing party, with bayonets unfixed amp; arms at a shoulder, and lastly
                                    was a guard of 30 men escorting 12 prisoners hand-cuffed, for the same crime.
                        The doomed man, was marched by the company around the entire column, closely to the
                                    ranks, following but a few inches from his coffin amp; stepping in perfect time to
                                    the Music. Not one of the whole escort had a firmer step or a more soldierly bearing
                                    amp; his countenance did not show half the internal agony as was manifest in the
                                    officer in command. The grave was at last reached all ready to receive the body. A
                                    long prayer was held by the chaplain of his Regt. The firing party placed. He takes
                                    one last, long, lingering look at the Heavens. Then at the Earth.
                                    A farewell look at his old comrades in arms, who look like stone walls standing to
                                    behold his death. Then at the men who are to kill him amp; he submits his eyes to be
                                    closed forever by a bandage. His coffin is placed near his grave—he
                                    stands beside it—turns amp; confronts his executioners-says I'm
                                    ready—a sharp note from a bugle—a
                                    volley—… he is dead, lying across his coffin.
                        
                           
                              58 The September, 1863, monthly return for the Fourth 
                                            Maryland
                                         [U.S.] Infantry contains the following postscript:
                                        "Private Charles Williams, Co. D, 4th Regiment Maryland Volunteers, was
                                        executed on Friday, September 25, 1863, between the hours of 12 o'clock
                                        and 4 o'clock P.M. in the presence of the 3d Division, 1st Army Corps.
                                        By order of General Court Martial near Rapidan, Va." Civil War Records
                                        Branch (National Archives, 
                                            Washington
                                        ).
                        
                        
                        I had a letter from Bob Parker but a few days ago. He is Discharged
                                    from our Company. Has accepted a Lieutenantcy in the 1st [4th] 
                                        United States
                                     Colored Infantry. His Regt. I believe is in 
                                        New Orleans
                                     where he will doubtless soon go. I shall know in a few days however. He
                                    is well.
                        The "Strange reports" you refer to are perfectly
                                    familliar to me. None very recent however. A month ago I believe was when they came
                                    in the greatest abundance. In fact the fatal day was at one time set, which day had
                                    expired ere the reception of news, amp; it was fixed in the minds or mind of a
                                    particular few that before the news reached me that you were Mrs Mary——I felt perfectly easy for I
                                    didn't believe a word of it. Would speak of it when forced with great indifference which soon crushed the pleasure
                                        of—–.59
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of the Potomac
                              Rapidan River Va.
                           
                                    Oct. 4th/63
                                
                        Mary J Hill
                        Dearest
                        Night has again streatched his mighty wing over the earth and put out the lamp of
                                    another Sabath. The Panorama of earth has begun. The light of a thousand camp fires
                                    appear like so many golden violets growing in Earth's garden. While above
                                    us "in the Measureless Medows of Heaven blossom the beautiful Stars the
                                    forget-me-nots of the Angels". It is a fit time for my mind to revert back
                                    to one by whose side I would now be so happy amp; to whom my pen owes a duty to be
                                    discharged on this holy day… .
                        A consuming excitement has prevailed among us to day. We have received an order from
                                    the War Department that if our Regt will, enlist for three [years] from this date
                                    that it shall be sent home to recruit its numbers to the maximum of 1,000 [?] with a
                                    Bounty of $402. The inducement is a strong one and many are anxious to
                                    reenlist. A great majority I think will go into it. This will secure our coming
                                    home. A meeting of the Regt will be had in the morning and I shall not seal or send
                                    this until an expression of the Regt. has been had. I for one will not reenlist for
                                    infantry. I am tired of walking for Uncle Sam. If the Regt goes home and they will
                                    give me privilege to raise a Company of Cavelry I will reenlist, upon no other terms
                                    will I.
                        
                           
                              59 The rest of this letter is missing.
                        
                        
                        There is no doubt that while the war lasts amp; I have strength amp; health but what
                                    I shall be identified with it but it must be on horse-back after this term. The
                                    question you ask me I defer answering at present through hopes of seeing you soon,
                                    when we can review the matter at length and consider all sides. If however the above
                                    mentioned scheme fails I shall answer you in my next. Evrything is quiet. No
                                    threatning signs of an early engagements.
                        It is generally believed that we will have no fight in this vicinity. I am of this
                                    opinion or at least for some time. Persimons are in abundance here amp; ripe. I have
                                    an engagement to [go] and hunt them tomorrow. Will eat one to the health amp;
                                    happiness of my Mary. Am writing a History of our Regt. to be published in Indian
                                    [a]'s Roll of Honor, prepared by Dr [David] Stevensin [Stevenson] State
                                    Librarian. I sent in yesterday the history of the three monthes Campaign.60
                        
                        I shall now lay this sheet in my book amp; await the results of tomorrow.
                        Oct 6th 1863
                        Our meeting over. Result much as I expected. Boys enthusiastic. Much in favor of the
                                    Veteran Corps.61 Believe our Regt will come home soon.
                        In hopes of soon greeting my beloved
                        
                                    I am as ever
                                    J.V.H
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of the Potomac
                              Thoroughfare Gap Va.
                           
                                    Oct 21st 1863
                                
                        Mary J Hill
                        Dearest Beloved
                        Sorry am I that this great delay has been forced upon me by the circumstance of war.
                                    Sorry because I couldn't tell my darling where I was amp; what doing but
                                    doubly sorry because I couldn't hear from her. For three weeks we have been
                                    all astir, marching amp; countremarching, advancing amp; retreating evry day without
                                    exception.
                        
                           
                              60 Possibly this history by Hadley, or an edited version
                                        of it, appears in David Stevenson, Indiana's Roll of
                                        Honor (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1864), 74-81.
                           
                              61 Those Federal units that re-enlisted at the expiration
                                        of their initial three-year term received the title "Veteran
                                        Regiment"—in distinction to "Volunteer
                                        Regiments," made up for the most part of conscripts.
                        
                        
                        Dont know what we've accomplished or what escaped, at what we've
                                    aimed or how succeeded, but do certainly know that we have made some hard marches,
                                    suffered cruel exposure, lost much sleep, been mighty hungry, amp; been shot at a
                                    few times. Wont attempt to tell you where we've been or what we've
                                    seen or felt, for we are only halted here amp; I may not even get to fill this
                                    sheet, before we are ordered to fall in.
                        I will say however that we were last Sunday within the fortifycations of Centreville
                                    boldly fronted by Lees' Army amp; skirmishing with his Lordships Cohorts.
                                    Expected that a fight would surely come off on Monday but to our surprise on Monday
                                    morning the enemy had "flewed". We started after him as is our
                                    game when he runs amp; his when we run. We had a keen little brush with him night
                                    before last which kept us up amp; watching all night amp; half
                                    froze to death. Our Regt was out as skirmishers amp; not a man was allowed a blanket
                                    or a wink of sleep. We were prepared for a fight yesterday but when morn came the
                                    enemy was again gone. We again followed amp; are now here amp; speaking for my self
                                    I have no idea where the rebs are.
                        The last three weeks have been full of privations. Until this evening we had not seen
                                    our baggage for four weeks, nor had a change of shirts in that time. I have seen
                                    people fastidious enough to call us dirty—perhaps we were certainly our
                                    shirts did not have the same color when pulled off this eve as they did when put on
                                    a month ago. Officers in a much worse fix than the men—having sent
                                    evrything extra to the rear expecting to see it at most in a week. Men carry all
                                    their clothes with them amp; consequently could change. Much fun has sprung however
                                    from our dirty shirts amp; their carniverous inhabitants.
                        You asked me if I am still of the Negro persuasion. As much so as ever I was but was
                                    never overly enthusiastic on the subject. Would feel no disgrace if I had command in
                                    a Negro Regt. Believe if it is honorable to use them as soldiers it is honorable to
                                    be their officers—but of course prefer those of my own blood amp; color.
                                    If in Bobs situation would have taken the same steps. Massa Lieut. Parker will make
                                    a good officer amp; no doubt like his posish. I am wedded to the
                                    Potomac Army, as you intimate amp; hope not to be devorced until my term of service
                                    expires amp; then I will gladly leave here only to enter into a higher, holier,
                                    happier, wedlock.
                        
                        Darling, I think in my last I spoke something about coming home soon to reorganize
                                    the Regt. Oh what a wicked delusion was this that forced itself upon
                                    me—fledged my hopes with silvery wings to soar on high, but to crush them
                                    to earth again in a few days afterwards. When I wrote you I firmly believed that the
                                    Regt. would soon come amp; believed that I would come with it though not to
                                    reorganize for three years more. To stick myself for three years more, before this
                                    job is done, to use a familiar phrase, "I couldn't see
                                    it".
                        The Regt may come yet, but I dont think it will, yet if it does, I shall not be with
                                    it, as I understand that all will be transfered to other Regts who refuse to
                                    reenlist to serve their term out. I believe I am as patriotic as the majority of
                                    people but I think I shall like a little rest when I have served 3 years. And then
                                    again I am not pleased with the infantry service. I prefer cavelry. When I have
                                    walked 3 years for Uncle Sam, I think if he needs me longer he must let me ride. Do
                                    you blame me for the course I take? I am the only Officer from Hendricks Co. who
                                    refuses to reenlist.
                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                        As to "The Question". I think now I should not like the
                                    postponement until after study if sooner would suit my darling. How is she in this
                                    respect? It is too hard to fight two wars at once. A war with hands amp; a war with
                                    hearts is too overpowering to wage at once. amp; if the one must continue I hope to
                                    settle the other soon on happy amp; holly [sic] terms. May I have
                                    a free expression from you?
                        No Regular Mails now leave us. This may never reach you but I shall cast it upon the
                                    waters amp; pray God to drift it into the hands of My Mary… . I salute
                                    you. J V H
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              H.Q. 2d Brigade 1st Div. 1st A.C.
                              Bristow St. Va.
                           
                                    Oct. 27th/63
                                
                        Mary J Hill
                        My dearest lady
                        "There is a tide in the affairs of Men which taken at its flood leads unto
                                    glory" says somebody. "And there is a tide in the affairs of
                                    Armies which taken at its ebb leads the d____l knows where" somebodyelse
                                    laconically adds. I am no philosopher amp; know nothing about the former but do
                                    observe a little sometimes and therefore know "there is a tide in the
                                    affairs of Armies" and an impetuous one too upon which we  have been drifting for a month and where it will lead
                                    us God knows—nobody else.
                        It is hardly a week, if I remember right since I wrote My Mary from Thoroughfare Gap.
                                    Since that time we have had the usual activity in marching, wading streams,
                                    &c. and have stopped again at Bristow St. waiting for something to turn
                                    up. And we thought it had turned up yesterday. A furious canonade was heard
                                    yesterday in direction of 
                                        Warren
                                    -ton62 all the afternoon and at Sun-down we were
                                    ordered to get ready on a double-quick to march. But something else turned up that
                                    we didn't march and are here yet.
                        I know not how much truth there is in the Report but we have it today that a brisk
                                    fight occurred yesterday in which the 3d amp; 6th Corps participated which resulted
                                    in the Burning down of the beautiful town of Warrenton. Rebel sharpshooter[s] are
                                    said to have been posted in the garrets amp; persisted in shooting at our
                                    skirmishers amp; which caused [Brigadier] Gen. [Hugh Judson] Killpatrick
                                    [Kilpatrick] to fire the town.63 Guess it was right enough.
                        Since I last wrote you I have been detailed on Brigade Staff—[Brigadier]
                                    Gen. [James C.] Rice64—as Commander of Provost
                                    Guards. I have near 100 men under my charge. My duties are easy and
                                    agreeable—have plenty of transportation—a good wall tent-will
                                    be mounted. In Regts no line officer is allowed anything but a shelter tent and here
                                    we are allowed one wall tent for evry two officers. My mate is Lt [Homer] Chisman
                                    Inspector General—an excellent fellow amp; full of fun.65
                        
                        There are 8 of us in all amp; all of whom I like very much with a single exception. I
                                    tell you more amp; all about them when I have more time. We have also the best
                                    living the Country 
                              
                                 62 What Hadley heard was a heavy skirmish that took
                                            place at Bealeton, 
                                                Virginia
                                            , a few miles south of Warrenton. See Official
                                                Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXIX, pt. 1, pp. 338, 418.
                              
                                 63 Hadley erred here. No Federal force, including
                                            Kilpatrick's cavalry, attacked Warrenton, 
                                                Virginia
                                            , during this period.
                              
                                 64 Rice commanded an enlarged Second Brigade in
                                            Cutler's First Division of the First Army Corps. In this brigade
                                            were the Seventh Indiana, the Seventy-sixth, Eighty-fourth, Ninety-fifth,
                                            and Hundred and forty-seventh 
                                                New York
                                            , and the Fifty-sixth Pennsylvania regiments. Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXIX, pt. 1, p. 217.
                              
                                 65 Chisman, a native of 
                                                Lawrenceburg
                                            , was a member of Company K of the Seventh Indiana. Like Hadley,
                                            whom he later met in prison, Chisman was captured during the Wilderness
                                            campaign, Along with two other men, they escaped from "Camp
                                            Sorghum" at 
                                    Columbia, South
                                            Carolina
                                 . Terrell, Report of the Adjutant
                                                General, II, 46; John V. Hadley, Seven Months a
                                                Prisoner (
                                                New York
                                            , 1898), 9-13, 43-46, 62-63, 76-76, 97-105.
                           
                                     and Commissary affords. Of milk amp; chickens,
                                    two great luxuries of mine, there has been no lack since I joined the Generals Mess
                                    and the way it is served to us is more homelike than one could expect in the Army.
                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                        Dearest I believe love of woman will conquer love of war and if God in his providence
                                    will once more lead me to civil life that I will remain there unless I feel that my
                                    services are absolutely necessary. May Heaven bless amp; keep you for the happiness
                                    of J.V.H
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Quarters 2d Brig 1st Div 1st A.C.
                              Near Beverly Ford Va
                           
                                    Nov. 15th 1863
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Dearest
                        A longer time has elapsed since I last wrote you, than I have desired but
                                    circumstances have rendered it difficult amp; almost impossible to write sooner.
                                    Since my last there has been some fighting by our Army but not by our Corps amp;
                                    therefore I shall enter into no particulars concerning it. Sufficient to say that it
                                    was one of the most brilliant affairs of the war amp; also one of the most
                                    successful. With a loss of 75 killed amp; 250 wounded the 6th Corps took 2,000
                                    prisoners, 6 peices of artillery, 8 stands of colors besides a great many rebels
                                    that they chased into the river amp; caused to be drowned.66
                        
                        By the spirit of Hymen, Mary I thought you were never going to write to me again. I
                                    had forgotten what I had written you or what I had not written, but could not
                                    believe that I had intimated anything to cause a secession or unfaithfulness. I
                                    would not believe you sick for I could think of no reason why you should be so amp;
                                    consequently a thousand strange thoughts forced themselves upon
                                    me. Don't punish me so again, darling I beg of you. If you hear of my doing
                                    wrong write amp; scould me for it—that is what I meant. If you hear of
                                    any waywardness or misgiving in me don't fail to notice them at once in an
                                    early letter.
                        
                           
                              66 Hadley here refers to the November 7, 1863, Battle of
                                        Rappahannock Station, 
                                            Virginia
                                        , waged between the Federal Fifth and Sixth corps and Major General
                                        Jubal A. Early's Confederate forces. The Federals lost 83 killed, 330
                                        wounded, and 6 missing, while Confederate casualties totaled 19 killed, 123
                                        wounded, and 1,631 missing. Official Records, Ser. I, Vol.
                                        XXIX, pt. 1, pp. 558-560, 616-617, 629-630, 635. For a detailed description of
                                        this engagement, see Douglas Southall Freeman, Lee's
                                            Lieutenants (3 vols., 
                                            New York
                                        , 1942-1944), III, 264-268.
                        
                        
                        You thought I was going to reenlist did you? Well I'm sorry you
                                    didn't know me better for I would not have you believe me so indifferent
                                    [to the] "pursuit of happiness." You say dear not to let them
                                    persuade me into a reenlistment. This might be done if I had not learned the first
                                    lesson in Natures' book "take care of
                                    yourself"—nor let them hire me. Money is
                                    not what I soldier for, if it were I should have a thousand dollars a month.
                        There was a time when I believe I was as patriotic as the common class of people amp;
                                    truly I don't know but what I am yet, but I have got tangled in the wily
                                    meshes of love which has extinguished much of my patriotic fire. But others have
                                    been as unfortunate as I in this regard. Wiser and better men have bowed before this
                                    indominatable God.
                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                        Our Hd.Qs. are near Beverly Ford on the Rap[pahannock]. river in a large house. Have
                                    finely furnished rooms above amp; below. Rich carpets, chairs, paintings, sofa, amp;
                                    piano are among the furniture. Like my position on the Staff finely. Splendid
                                    associates—gay amp; festive around our fireside. Was with the Gen.
                                    yesterday on a big Review in the 5th Corps—a huge time—your
                                    devoted
                        
                                    John
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Army of the Potomac
                              Culpepper C.[ourt] H.[ouse] Va
                           
                                    Dec. 27th 186367
                           
                                
                        My Dearest
                        I write you to-night under disappointment—rather hurt-full. I expected
                                    when I wrote my last that ere this date I would be on my way home if not there. I
                                    say I have been disappointed—well I have—but am not to be
                                    pitied. I might have been on the cars to-night with Lt Chisman with high hopes amp;
                                    a happy thought to surprise my Darling before the expiration of three days.
                        But I was too selfish I wanted to go home on the credit of the company for 35 day[s].
                                    I was sure I could go. So much was intimated to me by General Orders that Companies,
                                    reenlisting would be permitted to go home amp; take their Officers. 
                              
                                 67 In his letters Hadley does not mention the Mine Run
                                            campaign (November 26-December 2, 1863) in which the Seventh Indiana lost 1
                                            killed, 21 wounded, and 7 missing. Official Records, Ser.
                                            I, Vol. XXIX, pt. 1, p. 678. The regiment's action is described in
                                                ibid., 688-690.
                           
                                     My Company have reenlisted or at least
                                    signified their intention to do so amp; I had a right to expect to go with them. So
                                    I gave my place for a leave of absence to Capt W [Burutt?]. He went home this
                                    morning.
                        But while my hopes were highest amp; chances of success seemingly the best an order
                                    came down that officers would not be permitted to go home unless they first
                                    obligated themselves [to] Serve three years or during the War. Now to serve three
                                    years more is a big thing they say but I can't see it. So if I
                                    can't come without such an obligation you will please excuse my presence,
                                    Darling, about 9 months longer. If I come this winter it will be about the middle of
                                    next month.
                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                        We'v'e moved again. Left our splendid huts at Kelly's Ford
                                    amp; now lay on the bleak hills about Culpepper C. H. Men have suffered greatly the
                                    last 5 days-been very cold amp; but a very little wood to use—are
                                    discouraged about building huts amp; manifest no intention yet to build again. As
                                    far as my personal comfort is conserned it is as full amp; complete as could be.
                                    Could be no better at home.
                        Our H.Q. are at the house of Hon. John S. Pendleton, who was six years in Congress
                                    amp; five as Minister to South America.68 He has been very rich
                                    [and] is a perfect specimen of Southern Aristocracy. The best I have seen.
                                    Egotistical amp; vain he is [a] perfect wreck to vices amp; vulgarisms, The only
                                    good thing in my opinion he ever did for the world was to build his excellent house
                                    for our Hd.Qs. We are as nice here as bugs in a rug. All have our rooms amp;
                                    featherbeds, our carpets, amp; myrors. Our chairs amp; sofas thanks to Mr Pendleton.
                                    Had a merry Chris [t] mas. Was to Dinner at H.Q. 1st Div. Cavelry Corps. Met many of
                                    my old friends. Hadn't seen them for six months. There was a feast of
                                    Turkies amp; a flow of wine.
                        This Sunday night it is raining. Has rained all day. amp; evry time I would go to the
                                    door I would think of My Mary. I feel heart sore that I was not with Chisman on my
                                    road to meet her. But I dont yet dispair. I think I will be permitted to meet you
                                    about the middle of next month. I will promise 
                              
                                 68 John Strother Pendleton, a prominent Virginia Whig,
                                            had had an illustrious career that included three terms in the Virginia
                                            legislature and two in the 
                                                United States
                                             Congress. He had also been charge d'affaires to two
                                            South American countries. Dictionary of American Biography
                                            (22 vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1928-1968)' XIV, 422.
                           
                                     so much at any rate amp; if I disappoint
                                    you'll forgive. But if you dont write me soon very soon I
                                    wont forgive. I cannot be happy for the want of a letter from you. I want you to
                                    know of what I think about what he has said.
                        
                                    I am as ever Yours devotedly
                                    J. Vestal H
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Spencer
                                  House 
                                    Indianapolis
                                  Ind
                           
                                    Jan 21st 1863 [1864]
                                
                        Dearest girl
                        I leave this place to-night for the Army with but one regret amp; dear that is that
                                    you are not with me. May I never go away again with a heart so heavy. May the evil
                                    spirit be blasted, that caused me to destroy the letter that would have filled my
                                    cup of happiness to overflowing. Love if you were with me to-night I would be
                                    supremely blessed, while I am without you painfully disconsolate. You felt dearer to
                                    me to night than you can possibly believe. Try amp; feel, Dear, from this note the
                                    spirit that writes it, for though short amp; written in the dark it contains a
                                    mountain of feeling amp; love enough for a million all confered upon you. May the
                                    Angels love you as I do amp; make you happy as I wish.
                        
                                    Yours devotedly
                                    John
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              H.Q. 2d Brig &c
                           
                                    Jan. 28th 1864
                                
                        Mary J Hill
                        Beloved lady
                        My return to the Army was attended with no accident amp; would have been the most
                                    pleasant travel of my [life] had it not been for a delay of 20 hours at Crestline 
                                        Ohio
                                    . The workmen on the Crestline amp; Pittsburg[h] R.R. had struck for
                                    higher wages amp; the Company were able to procure only help enough to run a single
                                    train per day. This train I missed as it left at 8 A.M. amp; I did not reach
                                    Crestline til 12 M. Consequently nothing was left for me but to lay over til 8 A.M.
                                    the next day. This delay was very embarrassing in as much as it would render it
                                    impossible for me to reach the Army within the limits of my leave.
                        But the tedium of the day was much releived by Fortune placing me in the way of Capt
                                    [William W.] Fellows &  Dr [Lewis]
                                    Humpries [Humphreys]69 (the latter an old friend of mine four
                                    years ago at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    ), from the 11th Army Corps now in the Army of the 
                                        Cumberland
                                    . They seemed glad to see once more an old friend amp; representative of
                                    the Army of the Potomac. As I took them by the hand I remembered that they were from
                                    a Corps that left us some months ago with stained banners amp; I was too happy to
                                    remember also how gloriously amp; gallantly that stain had been eraced amp; that
                                    they now unfurl to the breezes, that fan the summit of Look Out Mountain amp; the
                                    formidable rebel works thereon escutacheons as bright amp; victorious as were ever
                                    borne in battle.
                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                        Be it sufficient to say further that I reached the Army at 3 P.M. on the 25th [?] one
                                    day after the expiration of my leave. I found my faithful groom waiting at the depot
                                    with my horse amp; after a five minute gallop met the boys amp;
                                    the Gen on the veranda of our H.Q.
                        I lifted my cap as gracefully as I was able when Gen. Rice said—Lt Hadley
                                    permit me—Mrs Rice allow me—Mrs Rice, Lt Hadley. The first
                                    question the Gen. asked me was "did you get married?" amp; as the
                                    sluggish "no" crawled out I felt guilty amp; no doubt looked
                                    guilty of leaving undone something which I knew to be my duty. Dear, I wish I had my
                                    15 days to spend over. I think my circumstances in life would be materially changed.
                                    As two happy husbands go galloping by my window with their laughing brides
                                    "my heart yearns to be one of those".
                        I believe I said something to you about the Theater at our H.Q. I find it in full
                                    blast amp; a perfect success. Since I returned I have been evry night amp; I never
                                    laughed harder in my life. We have as good a Troupe as I ever saw anywhere.
                        Darling, the ring amp; Photograph I promised you from 
                                        Washington
                                     I failed to get for want of time. … I think I shall go to 
                                        Washington
                                     in about 4 week[s] amp; will attend to it then.
                        
                                    Your Devoted
                                    J.V.H.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  69 Captain William W. Fellows died June 27, 1864, at the Battle of
                        Kennesaw Mountain, 
                            Georgia
                        . Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXXVIII, pt. 1, pp. 633, 725. Dr.
                        Lewis Humphreys, of 
                            South Bend
                        , had formerly been surgeon of the Twenty-ninth Indiana; at this time, he was the
                        medical inspector for Northern prisons. Alphabetical List of Battles and Roster of
                            Regimental Surgeons … during the War of the Rebellion … (
                            Washington
                        , 1883), 105; Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, II,
                    281.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              H.Q. 2d Brig &c Culpepper Va
                           
                                    Jan 31st/64
                                
                        My Dearest
                        So natural seemes my vocation, in the army that I can hardly realize the fact that I
                                    have lately seen anything else than the monotonous routine of military life. I cant
                                    see that I gained anything at all by going home. The pains of meeting amp; parting
                                    countreballansed all my enjoyment so I returned just even, having lost nor gained
                                    anything. Tis true that my mind is fresh in the memories of the golden moments I
                                    spent in the society of those I love but these memories are no more pleasant than
                                    the many happy dreames I had amp; have about the same reality. I do not regret my
                                    visit home nor would I if I had only been there to hear you speak my name amp; let
                                    my mother see the boy she "loves not wisely but too well". The
                                    only regret I have is that I didn't reap all the happiness there was for me
                                    in the Harvest. But I believe I missed it through a good motive—fearing
                                    it would be asking more of you than you could conveniently amp; willingly grant.
                        We gave an immense dinner party at our H.Q. last Friday. The day was set apart for a
                                    General Review of the Division amp; as many visitors were expected to be present at
                                    the Review it seemed good to the Gen to give all Officers a grand carnival at his
                                    H.Q. The day was as bright amp; fair as was ever known in Va amp; at 1 P.M. there
                                    might be seen youth, beauty, amp; chivalry assembling on the eminence that
                                    overlooked the plane [sic] where the Review would commence at 2
                                    P.M. An immense crowd were present at 2 oclock when the troops marched on the
                                    ground. The Review was as fine as I ever saw for its size. Men looked well amp;
                                    moved by the Gen. with that stern look amp; sturdy step known only to battle tried
                                    veterans. After the Review 125 Officers repaired to our H.Q… .
                        We at present have two ladies on the Staff amp; are expecting five
                                    more from Baltimorr [
                                        Baltimore
                                    ] tomorrow. Also expecting to be reinforced in about a week with five
                                    more from A#2 N.Y. making 12 in all. When they all arrive the women will be the
                                    controlling power of these H.Q. amp; what measures they will adopt for the
                                    prosecution of this war is very hard to conjecture. But I am not apprehensive that
                                    they will do anything unfavorable to "Union right or wrong".
                                    Surrounded by this multitude of uncompromising women I fear I shall be in mortal
                                    terror least I be forced into a policy of warfare very different from the one at
                                    present sustained.
                        
                        But, darling have no fears. My heart is iron-clad amp; locked amp; there is but one
                                    key in the universe that can unlock it amp; that you hold. Keep it secure, dear, til
                                    God in His Goodness appoints a time for you to unlock it amp; take therefrom its
                                    jewel its all.
                        Hoping that as I close this sheet, you are dreaming of happiness replete with him
                                    whose all you are I remain very affectionately yours J.V.H
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              H.Q. 2d Brig &c Culpepper Va
                           
                                    Feb. 3d/1864
                                
                        Miss Mary J Hill
                        Pittsboro Ind
                        Dearest Mary
                        Crinoline has crowded me out of the house amp; I am now in my tent shivering with
                                    cold. The most hard hearted man in the world could hardly wish his enemy a more
                                    disagreeable day than this. A painfully cold wind is blowing a herricane. The flys
                                    of our tents are beating the long roll amp; the smoke of our fires is distressing.
                                    There is no comfort anywheres to-day. In the fire-place of my tent is blazing a big
                                    fire, but so successfully does the cold wind perforate our canvass walls, that I am
                                    nearly frozen with my coat on sitting two feet from the fire. It is on such
                                    occasions as this that men become discouraged with military life. As I sit here
                                    trembling with cold amp; with eyes smarting amp; dropping smoked out tears, I am
                                    almost forced to exclaim "Soldiering you're a humbug".
                        Had a bit of disturbance at these H.Q. night before last. Very unusually we sat up
                                    rather late in the parlor with Mr amp; Mrs Needles, two guests of the Gen's
                                    amp; very interesting people. Whereupon it called forth from the Gen. an order of
                                    reprimand couched in the most insulting language. This order was
                                    followed early yesterday morning by another upon the same
                                    subject—dictating what we should say, when we should go to bed, amp; when
                                    get up—… charged us to see that our conduct was becoming of
                                    officers amp; gentlemen amp; "to so devote our time that we might say at
                                    the end of each week that we had rendered to the Government services equivilent to
                                    our pay". Both orders were grossly insulting amp; in convention assembled
                                    yesterday for that purpose, it was unanimously agreed to secede
                                    from the Staff unless the orders were revoked. This is not yet done, nor have we yet
                                    seceded,  but we will all go
                                    unless things become as we dictate. This is sworn to.
                        Have not yet heard from you since I returned, but hope that the head of the column of
                                    your letters will reach me in a few days. I want to hear from you very badly.
                        Have had an invitation to two balls since I returned but have attended neither. One
                                    at [Brigadier] Gen. [Joseph B. Carr's] Carrs' H.Q. amp; one last
                                    night at [Major] Gen [David B.] Birney's H.Q. Gen Rice goes amp; leaves his
                                    lady at home. Lt Chisman my right bower, says such treatment may indicate a faithful
                                    husband among blooded Yankees, but in the West where he was raised
                                    it always speaks better for the husband to take the wife along.
                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                        Hoping that you are in a comfortable house with easy head amp; easy eyes, I remain
                        
                                    forever yours
                                    J.V.H.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              H.Q. 2d Brig &c Culpepper Va
                           
                                    Feb 11th/64
                                
                        Miss Mary J Hill
                        Dearest Mary
                        I said in my last that I was going to write you twice a week, but failed as soon as
                                    promised, it being a week yesterday since my last was dated.
                        Sunday the day I should amp; would have written our Corps was on a reconnoisance to
                                    the Rapidan amp; did not return til Monday. Monday I couldn't write of
                                    course. Teuesday I had my tent torn down "to found it upon a
                                    rock". This day I had no place to write. Yesterday my excuse was the same
                                    as on Teusday. Moved in my new house last night then went to the T[h]eater at
                                    Culpepep[er]—had a good laugh amp; cold feet—returned at 11
                                    o'clock [and] drank two amp; half cups of tea—smoked my pipe—went to bed amp; had a good sound
                                    sleep—rose at 9 o'clock this morning.—Inspected the
                                    Grand Guard amp; gave it "fits" for a particular or
                                    two.—They swore to be true to the Discipline amp; straight out soldiers.
                                    I threatened to send them all to their regiments. Its made men of
                                    them. 20 have already been to see me to know if they
                                    couldn't do something for my comfort. I later [told] them they could
                                    "build my chimney higher" amp; there are just one dozen working at
                                    it now. Just here I heard the mason say he would build  it to the moon if it didn't quit smoking. But
                                    what on earth am I writing this senseless stuff to you for? What do you want to know
                                    what I said to the Guard? What do you care whether my chimney is high enough or
                                    whether it smokes or not? This is a matter that concerns me only.
                        Our reconnoisance didn't amount to anything one way or the other, only the
                                    showing of the strength of the two armies. We didn't loose any men or catch
                                    any. One or two miserable, cowardly, wretches deserted to us amp; perhaps an eaqual
                                    number deserted to them. The 
                                        Washington
                                     C[h]ronicle noticed a desperate charge made by the 7th Ind., but none
                                    of the Regt saw it… .70
                        
                        I shall not attempt to enumerate the number of our guests present. (I say ours but I
                                    mean the Gen's) but will say that we are expecting eight
                                    more to-morrow. I find ladies in the Army to be the most destructive amp;
                                    inconvenient things in the world. They have driven Lt Chisman amp; me, who have no
                                    interest in a million of them, out of our room—have taken half our
                                    blankets amp; rode our horses nearly to-death. They eat amazingly, want more riding
                                    whips amp; letter paper than a dozen wives.
                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                        
                                    I salute you—
                                    John
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              HQ 2d Brig. &c.
                              Culpepper Va.
                           
                                    Feb. 14th/64
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Dearest
                        Your first dated Feb. 9th has just been received amp; read the third time. I was very
                                    glad indeed to hear from you. So long had it been since I had read a letter written
                                    by your fair hand that I was growing fearfully impatient.
                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                        I took Mrs Rices sister, Miss Thorpe, to see a cavelry Review
                                    yesterday—went in an Ambulance—Driver let the horses run
                                    off—Miss Thorpe scared—screamed very naturally—got
                                    weak—tried to throw herself out of the Ambulance— 
                              
                                 70 A newspaper correspondent reported from Culpeper, 
                                                Virginia
                                            , that on February 8 the Seventy-sixth 
                                                New York
                                             and the Seventh Indiana had "charged almost to the
                                            river" and seized a Confederate position in the Raccoon Ford area
                                            of the Rapidan. 
                                                Washington
                                            
                                            Daily Morning Chronicle, February 10, 1864.
                           
                                     I gallantly fled to the rescue—with
                                    extended arms saved her—concluded she would rather fall into my arms than
                                    into the road. Took her some time to recover but when she did
                                    seemed satisfied with her choise. "For he maketh me to lie
                                        down in green pastures" was her motto I think. Had not the horses
                                    ran off yesterday I think I should not have been so tired last night, nor had such
                                        ugly dreames. These poison creatures will be the death of me
                                    yet I expect. Mrs Lt Col. Banta amp; Mrs Maj. Welsh tumpled into the arms of their
                                    husbands two days ago in Culpepper. Mrs. Banta said if I had done my duty when home
                                    she would have met you here. She looks to day as if she had been an angel.
                        Opened our theater again last night. The Troupe [took?] a benefit amp; realized
                                    $50.00 [?]. Good night love. Your John
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Hd.Qs. 2d Brig &c
                           
                                    Feb. 18th/64
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        My Dearest
                        this has been the coldest day of the winter with us amp; painfully disagreeable. The
                                    wind which peirced to the center has threatened all day to blow off my tent but yet
                                    it stands with some assurances of being able to stand the storm and I've
                                    been smoked again nearly to-death.
                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                        Four more young ladies amp; two gentlemen arrived at our HQ this evening. I cannot
                                    wish for any more—nor wished for these. think if I had the blankets I
                                    loaned them to-night I should enjoy them about as well as I will enjoy the ladies
                                    society tomorrow.
                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                        For the present I leave you.
                        
                                    As ever your devoted
                                    J.V.H
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              H.Q. 2d Brig &c
                           
                                    Feb. 21st 1864
                                
                        Miss Mary J Hill
                        Loved Mary
                        I'm tired tonight. Tis Sunday but I 've been running all the day.
                                    After going through the usual routine of Sunday 
                                    Morning Lt Chisman amp; I went to the 3d Ind. Cav. on a visit amp;
                                    business… . Of all classes of people in this army there are none so
                                    poisonous amp; dangerous to go among as Indianians. Their hospitality is so
                                    unbounded that it leads them blindly to commit many indiscretions.
                        Yet we Indianians love to meet out here. We are so few among so many, that the word
                                    Hoosier electrifies amp; makes us old friends. We are proud of our Indiana out here
                                    for what she has done amp; doing amp; other people pay her homage too. The other day
                                    Capt [Frederick L.] Clark of Gen. Meades' Staff was sitting at the table
                                    with us. The relative merits of troops were being discussed amp; the Capt. made this
                                    observation [:] "Gen. there is one thing I've noticed during my
                                    two years' association with this Army amp; in the many battles where
                                    I've participated amp; that is this—Indianians take them as a
                                        whole—are the best troops in the
                                    Army—both in camp amp; on the battle field. They have fewer deserters
                                    amp; fewer coward [s]—need less attention amp; less discipline than the
                                    troops from any other State".
                        Capt Clark is a New Yorker amp; he didn't know there was a Hoosier near. Lt
                                    Chisman was not present amp; all eyes were concentrated on me amp; I confess I
                                    wilted under the compliment. But it was rather a pleasant wilting.
                        I said in the begining I was tired. I am. Returning from the 3d Cav. about 2 P.M. I
                                    hitched a piece of calico to my arm, Miss Libby McClure, amp; "went to meetin". Led her gallantly through an astonished crowd of
                                    soldiers to a front seat amp; sat by her. After Church the evening
                                    was so perfectly splendid that we could not commit the sin of staying in doors. So
                                    we walked out to the 1st Brig. amp; back again over the fields.
                        Not yet satisfied, we rested a half an hour amp; again left the gate in another
                                    stroll. Never was there a more enchanting evening in Feb. The sun was sinking in the
                                    West, reflecting back as parting salutations, ten thousand golden glories, while the
                                    warm balmy breezes came gliding by touching our cheeks as softly as a
                                    lover's kiss. My last walk was replete with pleasure drawn from the society
                                    of Nature amp; Miss Cara Bush. While out I thought a dozen times of you, dear,
                                    wondering whether you were out walking with some agreeable company or whether you
                                    were sitting in the parlor writing to me. I could but wish the former amp; hope the
                                    latter.
                        I've had but one letter from you darling, since I returned. If you
                                    don't write oftener I will certainly have to come to see  what is the matter. Inclosed you will find
                                    $1.00 of genuine rebel money. You will please treasure it for me as a
                                    relic of the rebellion.—Your devoted J. V. Hadley
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              H.Q. 2d Brig &c
                           
                                    Feb. 29th/64
                                
                        Miss Mary J Hill
                        Dearest Mary
                        the 6th Corps went out yesterday on a reconnoisance to M#2 C.H. amp; have not been
                                    heard from yet. Guess they have met with no trouble or we would have heard from
                                    them. We got orders last night to be ready to march at an early hour this morning,
                                    but we didn't march amp; evrything has been as quiet as usual today.
                        The ladies have been in some consternation, but this has given me no trouble inasmuch
                                    as I have a horse this time amp; will not have to stay behind amp; serve them in
                                    their panic. Officers wives I regard as having a perfect right to come to the Army,
                                    tis a nice thing amp; would like to have one here myself, but for New 
                                        England
                                     to belch forth all her old maids amp; husband seeking girls, into our
                                    rooms, to take our beds, amp; eat up our savings—is, I think, a
                                    questionable right.
                        We've had one of those dear creatures here now for more
                                    than four week[s] amp; she insists upon not leaving until some of us agree to marry
                                    her. Chisman says he wouldn't mind it amp; would do it if she were only 35
                                    but being two days more, thinks he'll wait… .
                        Made application to-night for a Leave of Absence for five days to go to 
                                        Washington City
                                    . If I get my Leave I shall fulfill my promises.
                        Our Army is to be consolidated into three Corps as follows[:] 6th with the 1st, 5th
                                    with the 3d, amp; the 2d to be increased to 20,000 by new troops. The 1st will be
                                    commanded by Maj Gen. Sedgwick, the 2d by Maj Gen. [Gouverneur K.] 
                                        Warren
                                    , amp; rumor says that Joe Hooker will command the 3d. I don't
                                    believe it though.
                        Mr. Pendleton was in a furious passion this morning. He thought we were going to
                                    leave him without giving him a Bill of Damages. He cursed the Gen terrible. Since
                                    his visit to the President he has been very independent—thinks that Abe
                                    will support him in any thing he may say or do.
                        Have you always preserved my letters? If so, how many have you on hands? I
                                    close—Good night dear—J.V.H.
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              H.Q. 2d Brig 1st Div 1st A.C.
                              Culpepper Va.
                           
                                    March 13th 1864
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Dearest Mary
                        I have adopted a new plan. I wrote twice a week until I ceased to get letters amp;
                                    now I have written once in two weeks to see if I wont get two
                                    letters in one week. I won't scould any more, but punish a little to let you know how very uncomfortable it makes
                                    one feel to receive such few letters from the expected partner of life. No, darling,
                                    I don't mean what I've said. I've had two letters from
                                    you since I wrote, amp; will explain myself why I have not written sooner.
                        On the 4th inst I went North on a Leave of Absence amp; have just returned amp; once
                                    more settles [sic] for business. On my return I found two dear
                                    good letters awaiting me amp; felt only too sorry to believe, that in all
                                    probability, my dear Mary, was anxiously awaiting an arrival from me. But they shall
                                    come now amp; continue to come as many as you will want to answer.
                        Among the many friend [s] amp; places visited in my Leave was Falls Church amp; the
                                    good people with whom I was once sick amp; received such kind treatment. I need not
                                    tell you that we are good friends, for I've told you that
                                    before. I needn't tell you that Lizzie Sherwood is young, hansome, amp;
                                    accomplished amp; has manifested amp; still manifests some regard for me, for I
                                    guess you will remember what I've said upon this subject before. The family
                                    expected a visit from me, Lizzie more particularly, for I had promised it Six
                                    monthes ago amp; more recently doubled the assurance.
                        I didn't "surprise the camp" for I had received a note a
                                    few days before from Lizzie, stating that she would expect me on Saturday morning
                                    the 5th inst. I was up to time on said morning, but was not surprised to find one
                                    one to meet me at the depot for it was raining furiously when I arrived. The house
                                    stood a quarter of a mile away, amp; after a few questions amp; answers with the
                                    Capt defending the Post, "swift on the wings of love I
                                    flew". As I drew near I saw that the window curtains were drawn aside amp;
                                    had a disposition to believe that I was seen, but had no ostensible assurance of the
                                    fact. I entered the gate—approached the house—heard the hall
                                    door slam—heard rustling feet through the passage—saw a fairy
                                    of sixteen summers rush out at the front
                                    door—and——–no matter what.
                        
                        I was very kindly received amp; while there my treatment could not
                                    have been better. I [s]pent the days very pleasantly with the family amp; the
                                    evenings with a very small portion of the family in a manner after
                                    the fashion of——-. I expected to stay with them two days amp;
                                    nights, but the cars refused to stop for me on the second day amp; I was stuck for another 24 hours. On the morning of the 7th I went down
                                    to the R.R. where stood an engine smoking on the track, amp; insisted upon the
                                    Manager of the Road to take me to 
                                        Alexandria
                                    —stating that I was on important official business for the
                                    1st A.C. amp; that I must be in Alex. to connect with the noon
                                    train for the Army, as the result of my efforts must be laid
                                    before the Genl. that evening. After some questions asked amp; some lies told he agreed to send me to Alex. in a Special
                                    Train—the engine. He asked me if I were ready amp; I told him that I
                                    must go to neighboring house amp; get my baggage. He said hurry amp; I hurried.
                        Went back to my friends amp; told them that I was going at once when they replied
                                    they couldn't see it—that I should not leave their house until I
                                    had my dinner, though it was not 11 o'clock. I had to
                                    yield—dinner was hastily prepared—… I ate
                                    frightfully of the very best their larder contained. I then again met the family in
                                    the parlor to take a last adieu, which accomplished [,] Mrs. S.
                                    said—"Come folks I'm sure we're not wanted in
                                    here any longer" amp; they all obeyed but one. The old lady was right, but
                                    I didn't tell her so. The room thus vacated there
                                    followed—what?—tragedy of course. Ten minutes more amp; I was
                                    out of the house, feeling very much like I had swallowed a 20 lb shell, which had
                                    lodged in my left breast.
                        
                        When I got to the R.R. amp; found that the cars had been waiting for me some time, I
                                    could hardly persuade myself that I was not a Maj., Genl., or a Gov, or a Senator,
                                    or something of that sort, that the cars would wait for me, when I had always waited
                                    for them or been left, amp; then to be the only passenger, amp; what was more to
                                    hear the Manager tell the engineer to make all haste with me, least I be too late,
                                    but before I got out of that infernal engine I was very well convinced that I was
                                    nothing but a petty Lieutenant if that, for really they or it ran so furiously that
                                    I like to have frozen to death. The wind blew through me like I was a sieve, amp; I
                                    was a[s] wet when I got to Alex. as a soaked pongue [sponge?]. I wanted to kill
                                    somebody, when I got off, for I thought they had taken that plan to punish me for my
                                        lies.
                        
                        
                        I was in time for the 
                                        Washington
                                     train, where I went. Lt. Genl. Grant was expected in W. that same
                                    evening. I[,] like evrybody else, was wild to see this man of might [y] deeds. Went
                                    first from one hotel to another to see if he had yet registered. Could learn nothing
                                    til I saw this. "The President will give a Reception to Lt. Genl. Grant, at
                                    the White House this evening, begining at 8 1/2 o'clock, to which all
                                    members of Congress amp; Officers of the Army amp; Navy are Respectfully
                                    invited". I claiming connection with that fraternity—went of
                                    course. My friend Capt Richardson furnished the white kids—… I
                                    was dressed for the occasion. Was met amp; welcomed by father Abraham himself. Will
                                    tell you all about the levee in my next—havn't room in this.
                                    With the best wishes of a kind heart, amp; sanguine hopes of coming happiness I am,
                                    dear Mary your affictionate Soldier.
                        I send you my photograph—may I not have another one of
                                    yours?—The ring I spoke of I found to[o] expensive to risk by
                                    mail—twil all be right.
                        You complain that time draggs so slowly by—guess if you read this
                                    letter—two days of your Time will be well employed. I shall expect to
                                    receive a blast from this letter—a bad spirit has got into me amp;
                                    written it for me.71
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              HQ 2d Brig &c
                           
                                    March 15/64
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Dearest
                        I didn't go to the Ball to night in the 5th Corps for I thought I might
                                    spend my time as pleasantly amp; profitably at home. Gen Rice gave me a very special invitation to go with him to accompany Miss Thorpe the
                                    reigning beauty of these H.Q. Miss Thorpe is a fine
                                    girl—but not my stile amp; even if she were I had no inclination to go to
                                    the Ball.
                        Dear Mary I'm tired to-night. I've been writing hard all day amp;
                                    am now dull amp; stupid as you find this letter to be. 
                              
                                 71 Although there are several other postscripts also
                                            written in the margins or superimposed on the body of the letter, these have
                                            been omitted because they are so difficult to read.
                           
                                     How I wish for your presence—that I
                                    might find a rest for five minutes. I think it would brighten amp; animate me.
                        You will please notify me a week before you go to 
                                        
                                            Richmond
                                        
                                     [Indiana] that I may mail your letters there. What you were to tell about that Recruiting officer I have not yet read.—May I read
                                    it soon. Have you seen Col Ashby?
                        Beloved I salute you. J.V.H
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              HdQs 2d Brig 1st Div &c
                              Culpepper Va
                           
                                    March 23d/64
                                
                        Miss Mary J Hill
                        Dearest
                        A very heavy snow lies upon the ground—perhaps eight inches at any
                                    rate—much the largest snow we've had this winter. It was quite
                                    cold amp; unpleasant yesterday amp; last night when the snow was falling but this
                                    day has been beautiful amp; shiny.
                        I expected yesterday to be in the saddle all day as I knew it would be the day for
                                    our Genl to ride the Corps Picket Line which is always a days work not to be wished
                                    for but once. We have to take turns in going with him amp; it was mine yesterday,
                                    but the Genl was in an extra good humor because he was not arrested for keeping his
                                    wife two days contrary to orders, amp; when we were about ready to start he made the
                                    very pleasant observation to me that I need not go unless I so
                                    desired—the weather was so very bad. I never thought so much of my Genl
                                    as I did yesterday when sitting by my pleasant fire amp; thinking how he was
                                    suffering on the Picket line… .
                        The rats are very bad about our house (our house—what is
                                    it in these two words that makes them so full of endearments to me) amp; I thought I
                                    would put an end to some of their frolics over our floor h bed at
                                    night time. For this purpose I procured a steel trap. Lt [Archibald] Bush was in
                                    this morning amp; suggested that we so arrange the trap as to catch amp; scare
                                    evrybody that came into the tent. I was agreed amp; the trap with its ugly jaws wide
                                    open was soon above the door so fixed by a string that when the door was opened it
                                    would  fly amp; make a terrible rattling if it
                                    didn't catch anybody. It was a perfect success. I think we scared Lt
                                    Chisman, an ordely, amp; the mail-boy til they were mad. It caught Chisman by the
                                    back of the cap, the ordely by the hair, amp; came so near catching the
                                    mail-boy's ear that it would have been no worse if it had. The laugh was so
                                    good in each case that I enjoy it yet. I wish it had caught the mail-boy because he
                                    didn't bring me a letter. You will think this big business for our ages I
                                    recken but if you do you are mistaken for it was certainly very little business. But
                                    what do I care what kind of business it was? I m in for anything to hurry off my six
                                    monthes more.
                        I understand that our army is to be increased to 200,000 men amp;
                                    that all Veteran Western regiments are to be ordered here. Grant joins us
                                    tomorrow—his Head-Quarters will be in Culpepper.72
                                    Considerable preparation is being made to receive him.—Dearest,
                                    adieu.—J. V. Hadley
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Hd.Qurs. 2d Brig. 4th Div 5th A.C.
                           
                                    March 27th 1864
                                
                        Miss Mary J Hill
                        My dearest Mary
                        You write very short letters, I must remind you. Perhaps Sunday evening is a bad time
                                    for you to write—for I expect he comes sooner always than you expect him.
                                    If it conflicts with your arrangements to write on Sunday evening
                                    I will not insist longer on this particular time. These "Ky.
                                    Bloods" amp; "Ten. Refugees" require proper attention to
                                    win their favor.
                        Since my last our Army has been consolidated amp; you will please hereafter address
                                    me at the Hd.Qurs., 2d Brig 4th Div. 5th A.C. Some changes have also been made in
                                    our Genls. At present they are our Brigade Commander Brig. Genl. J C Rice, Division
                                    Corn. Brig Genl. [James S.] Wad[s]worth (our old Com.), Corps Corn. Maj. Genl. 
                                        Warren
                                    , Army Corn. Maj. Genl G. G. Meade. I would tell you about 
                              
                                 72 On March 10, 1864, President Abraham 
                                                Lincoln
                                             had placed Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant in supreme
                                            command of all Federal armies. Official Records, Ser. I,
                                            Vol. XXXIII, 663.
                           
                                     the different changes that have been made but
                                    you knowing nothing about the old organization would know nothing about the new.
                        3,000 more hearts are now sighing in the North than there were a month ago. All ladies have at last left the army.
                        Dearest Mary good-night—J.V.H.
                        I send you the photograph of our Genl. amp; one member of the Staff.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Hd.Qs. 2d Brig 4th Div 5th A.C.
                           
                                    March 31st 1864
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Pittsboro &c
                        My dearest
                        Last night was my time to write you amp; I should have done it, but Chisman
                                    wouldn't let me. He perhaps had reasons for his course which I wont explain
                                    here least I might give greater cause for a "blast" than I did
                                    some weeks ago; Chisman says he had reasons but "I couldn't see
                                    it".
                        You seem to be interested in the "particulars of my visit to Falls
                                    Church." My visit there was very similar to all my visits made on such
                                    occasions amp; under such circumstances. My business there was to see Lizzie amp; I
                                    saw her. the time we spent together was varied by a few touches of the
                                        lips—a few enfoldings of the arms—a few tender words—a few sighs amp; a few no nothing more. This young
                                    girl said she never expected to see me again amp; of course treated me kindly, which
                                    kindness I felt bound to repay. I am going to tell you of all my tricks so that I
                                    will have nothing to confess when you will demand it as your right to know all.
                        You saw a couple take upon themselves the holy or unholy (I don't know which
                                    it is) injunction to "cleave unto each other" did you? I am very
                                    glad that you are trying to learn how it's done for I may
                                    want you to show me some day; for I have a disposition now to sacrifice myself soon "for weal or for woe". As you looked upon
                                    this newly established relation amp; comprehended its meaning did
                                    your heart, like Smith's, "burn to be one of those"? I
                                    don't mean Howard Smith I mean the Poet Smith of 
                                        England
                                    .
                        
                        Our Review day before yesterday was a very stupid affair. It was a general Review of
                                    the Army by the Great Grant but it rained all day amp; in consequence all formality
                                    was waived amp; the distinguished man rode along our line formed in "double
                                    column at half distance" (you understand it of course) slowly, looking at
                                    evry man amp; officer as interestedly as a drover would examine his herd of oxen
                                    which he was preparing for the slaughter.
                        I had a little variety in my official duties yesterday. Information had been brought
                                    to H.Q. that four citizens living near our picket line were suspicioned to aid men
                                    to desert from our army through our lines to the enemy. I received an order from the
                                    Genl. to examine into it amp; learn if possible the facts in the case amp; if
                                    sufficient evidence could be obtained to arrest them amp; turn them over to the
                                    Provost Marshel. I wont say anything about our preliminary operations—too
                                    tedious—suffise it to say that greatly assisted by Maj. [Robert W.] Bard
                                    of the 95 N.Y. V[ol.] we got on the right track. We got a man in whom we could put
                                    all confidence amp; had him propose desertion to a suspicious party of the 95
                                    Regt.—proposial was accepted with the further statement that it was
                                    already arranged for two of them to desert to-night which was to be effected through
                                    the kindness of some citizens. Our friend went with his victims to see said citizens
                                    about reb clothes &c. amp; then amp; there learned that they were
                                    organized for that purpose by the confederacy amp; were opperating with another
                                    party at White Oak Hall the rendezvous of Deser[ters]. Three were at home amp;
                                    belonged to no Regt. in particular [and] the third a member of the 17th Va. Inft. on
                                    Special Duty. They showed their papers to our friend amp; were very happy to admit
                                    him into their grace &c. They parted to meet at 9 P.M. for business but
                                    they met a little before that time. The earnest deserter [s] were soon in irons,
                                    amp; the four citizens in jail at Culpepper. One of the chaps, [of] the 17th Va.,
                                    jumped out of a 2d story window amp; broke for the woods but my revolver persuaded
                                    him to stop. He seemed to be of the opinion that he hadn't done anything
                                    deserving of arrest, but when our faithful servant stepped ov[e]r amp;
                                    remarked—"these officers have come to be present at the meeting
                                    tonight"—Mr. Reb replied—"Yankee trick by
                                    G–d".
                        I had scearched Humes' house the day before by order of Genl Rice amp; found
                                    5 pairs of Federal pants amp; 25 pairs of 
                                    drawers all of which I confiscated. At that time Hume insisted on
                                    being the best Union man in the Government amp; his wife affirmed that she had
                                    always called him an abolitionist amp; a Yankee &c. But the following day
                                    when I told him he was my prisoner, she demanded what was it for. I told her because
                                    he was a white washed Yankee amp; an abolitionist of our army. She
                                    sighed "my dear husband". I consoled her. I have a story to tell
                                    about my adventures this afternoon which I will give in my next.—It was
                                    one of the best of my life I thought. You shall hear of it.
                        Do you think your father asks too much of you?-please answer without
                                    reserve—devotedly J.V.H.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              H.Q. 2d Brig 4th Div. 5th A.C.
                           
                                    April 3d 1864
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Dearest Mary
                        I am just in from a ride. Chisman, Bush, amp; I celebrated the afternoon (when we
                                    should have kept it sacred) by going to the front. I mean to our out-post pickets.
                        A dirty looking sentinel with a white dimond shaped badge on his hat, which bespoke
                                    him to be a member of the old 3d Army Corps, but now of the 6th A.C. was slowly
                                    pacing his beat by the road side amp; as we rode up on the gallop, brought his gun
                                    to a "charge bayonet"
                                    with—"halt—can't pass here". We
                                    knew very well that we couldn't, by existing orders, but wanted to see if
                                    he were doing his duty.
                        Asking him some questions about his friends in grey, who were similarly employed a
                                    few hundred yards in the front, we galloped up a neighboring hill to "view
                                    the land-scape o're". The scene was magnifficient. Directly in our
                                    front, 3 miles away arose the Blue Ri[d]ge Mountains, their bases belted with
                                    stately green pines amp; their summits covered with a white mantle of snow. The sun
                                    was pouring his rich radiance upon these majestic heads which reflected to us ten
                                    thousand glories.
                        At intervals in the valley below, we could see, away round to the left as far as the
                                    eye could reach, slowing [slowly?] moving upwards, columns of smoke which without
                                    doubt were ascending from the camps of the enemy. From their number it is very
                                    supposeable that Lee has still a great  Army
                                    amp; from the stout persons amp; good clothes of his pickets near by it would seem
                                    that his army was in very good condition.
                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                        Darling we perhaps feel an interest in each other, or at least should, amp; would it
                                    not be well for us to adopt a system of criticism in our letter writing? I have many
                                    imperfections I know particularly in spelling, to which if you would call my
                                    attention you would be of great service to me. I would not have you think, by my
                                    making this suggestion, that I have found any unusual amount of errors in your
                                    letters for, upon the whole they have been very perfect, but they contain some as
                                    all letters do amp; as all letters are expected to. Your composition amp; grammar
                                    are very good amp; the only faults that I have been able to
                                    discover are in the use of capital letters.—I believe we are taught to
                                    begin all sentences with capitals. This you sometimes fail to do. It is in the
                                    kindest spirit, that I make this suggestion amp; in the belief that it is for our
                                    best good.—May it be accepted so.
                        Mary, will you tell me your age?; if I ever knew I have certainly forgotten.73—Yours only J.V.H.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              H.Q. 2d Brig 4th Div 5th A.C.
                           
                                    April 10th 1864
                                
                        Beloved Mary
                        I didn't write you last Wednesday on account of having an extra amount of
                                    duty to perform on that day. I was sent by Genl Rice to inspect all the roads
                                    leading to amp; from our brigade, also all the bridges which are numerous, also with
                                    instructions to superintend all necessary repairs. I was not out of my sadle one
                                    hour at a time from 9 o clock to 6 P.M. amp; when I came to my tent after supper I
                                    thought "to dream instead of write to Mary".
                        I see from your last that you are obstinate in nothing. If I want to go to the
                                    service again I can go with your consent. This certainly shows a sacrifising
                                    disposition but from my present plans I hardly think that I shall ever enter the
                                    Army again as a soldier in which case the sacrifise, if sacrifise it 
                              
                                 73 According to the sources available, there is some
                                            disagreement about Mollie's age. Her obituary in the 
                                                Danville
                                            
                                            Republican, August 29, 1929, states that she was
                                            eighty-seven years old at the time of her death. But the county history
                                            edited by her husband gives August 13, 1844, as the date of her birth.
                                            Hadley (ed.), History of Hendricks County, Indiana,
                                        176.
                           
                                     would be, will not have to be made. I have soon
                                    soldiered three years for patriotism, if there is such a thing amp; if I live with
                                    the Army longer it will be for some other purpose, amp; that purpose is money—a very convenient article when there is a family to
                                    support.
                        Lt Chisman amp; I have been warm friends for a long time amp; our
                                    relations in life are very similar amp; we have decided, that if
                                    we can get a position, which we are quite sure of, to go into the business of Sutler. We desire a situation in the Army [of the] Potomac. I feel
                                    quite sure that we can get one, in which case it is the intention of the Firm
                                    (Chisman amp; Hadley) to bring their calico to 
                                        Baltimore
                                    , the H.Q. of all Sutlers in this Department, where suitable private
                                    rooms will be found to store it. How would you like to wear my calico amp; in my absence be the room-mate of Mrs Chisman,
                                    who is now Miss Minnie Elliott?; or would you prefer being the wife of a Capt.?
                        The Company of Cavelry of which I spoke could not be enlisted until we are mustered
                                    out of the Service. It was only to make my claim prior to some others, of the
                                    privilege to raise such a Company when our time is out, that some have insisted on
                                    my promise. I have never made it yet, nor think I will.
                        
                                    I salute you—
                                    J.V.H
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Hd.Qurs. 2d Brig &c
                           
                                    April 17th 18[6]4
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Well dear Mary
                        I must confess that your letter of the 10th inst had a little ring of scoulding about
                                    it. First I believe I ever got of you that could claim such a spirit, amp; for some
                                    reason amp; can't account for, never got one that did me more good. I think
                                    I read it a dozen times before I put it up. Lemonade is good when sweetened amp; so
                                    is a few sour words when there runs through them such a rich vein of sweet love as I could trace through your letter… .
                        As far as my knowledge goes there is no truth in the report that our Regt. is to
                                    guard Genl Grants H.Qrs. It would little effect me if it were true. My fortune is
                                    with Genl. Rice instead of the Regt. or Genl Grant, amp; our campaign is  certainly close upon us. Orders are issued relative to
                                    the "impending battle". The badly sick are going North, amp; all
                                    army followers ordered to "git up amp; dust". I am ready for the
                                    fight amp; "let it come, I repeat it, let it come". My sword is
                                    bright, my revolver clean, amp; pouch full of cartridges. My valise is also well
                                    filled with such articles as are "necessary to the good of the
                                    service["] among them, soap amp; towels.
                        What our campaign will be amp; how it will be has been thoroughly discussed by all
                                    amp; thoroughly understood by none. It is the popular opinion though I believe now,
                                    that when gunpowder explodes, it makes a noise amp; further more,
                                    that if a 20 lb shell strikes a mans' head at an angle of 90 degrees it will destroy his equilibrium. I also heard a gentleman
                                    belonging to the brass button fraternity the other day advance the theory that
                                    fighting was dangerous, but if a man can escape all bullets amp; bayonets, amp; is
                                    not accidentally killed, nor dies by any disease, he will get out of the service
                                    alive. Such is the philosophy of this army amp; it is generally thought to be
                                    sound—Genl Grant believes it.
                        I was up, amp; had an interview, the other evening with the Genl.
                                    [Rice] at his own proposial. He suggested to me
                                    the propriety of obedience amp; faithfulness to superior officers. I bowed at an angle of 46 degrees amp;
                                    replied—"Genl I'm of the same
                                    opinion'' at the same time inwardly
                                    murmured—"Lord thy will not mine be done". Genl Rice is
                                    an animal so constituted that it is actually necessary to his happiness, to give
                                    some body a "blowing up" once a week. We want to make him happy
                                    amp; take the "blowings". We take it by turns amp; this week was
                                    my turn. Because I sometimes take 27 inches at a step instead of 28 (a military
                                    step)—
                        
                                    "His waking wrath took great offence To see such cr[u]el
                                        disobedience".
                                
                        I felt easier when I closed the door behind me, but felt like I
                                    "couldnt help it,'' as Lieut Bush said yesterday when his
                                    horse threw him into a Slop sink.
                        You regard Lt Bush "as very hansome indeed" do you? So do I amp;
                                    shall watch the mail very closely hereafter to see that no letters
                                    come from Pittsboro addressed to the boy.
                        I go to 
                                        Washington
                                     tomorrow shall stay 4 or 5 days—will probably write you from
                                    the city.
                        Do you get my letters—one each mail, or both (of each week) in one mail?
                        Write very soon to your loving friend J.V.H
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Clarendon Hotel
                              
                                 
                                    Washington City
                                  D.C.
                           
                                    April 20th/64
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Dearest
                        I intimated to you that I was coming to 
                                        Washington City
                                     amp; I believe I promised to write to you from here. I had some
                                    business here or I certainly would not have come.
                        If there is any place on God's foot-stool that I hate it is 
                                        Washington
                                    . Not so much the town as I do the people. I have looked all over the
                                    place for an honest man, amp; I find that among all her boasted 60,000, that none
                                    are honest but Abe amp; three weeks ago when I attended his Levee amp; saw him so
                                    warmly welcoming evrybody, these lines of Cooper suggested
                                    themselves to me
                        
                                    "O friendship cordial of the human breast So little
                                        felt amp; fervently professed".
                                
                        Out of some curiosity I went to Congress yesterday after-noon. I had been there often
                                    before, amp; was always bored, save once when Henry S Lane made a speech in the
                                    Senate on arbitrary arrests.74 I was bored worse yesterday than
                                    ever before. There was nothing doing in the Senate but offering amp; refering
                                    Resolutions. I am ashamed to speak of the House, for I blush to acknowledege that
                                    there are so many traitors in our Government. [Ebenezer] Dumont of Ind.75 offered a Bill on Revenue, which the Democrats disliked amp;
                                    wanted to kill. As soon as they got ready to consider the Bill, the Democrats began
                                    moving to adjourn, (which unfortunately is always in order) amp; would demand the
                                    "yeas amp; nays" on evry vote.
                        It would take at least 15 minutes to call the Roll amp; record each man's
                                    vote amp; they continued this process for 
                              
                                 74 A founder of the Republican party in Indiana, Henry
                                            S. Lane had won the 1860 gubernatorial election by a 10,000 majority. Two
                                            days after his inauguration, however, he resigned to accept a post in the 
                                                United States
                                             Senate. Lieutenant Governor Oliver P. Morton succeeded him as
                                            the state's chief executive. Biographical Directory of
                                                the American Congress, 1189; John D. Barnhart and Donald F.
                                            Carmonv. Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth
                                            (4 vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1954), II, 154.
                              
                                 75 This congressman had been colonel of the Seventh
                                            Indiana when Hadley joined the regiment. Although Dumont was promoted to
                                            brigadier general, ill health forced his resignation from the army in 1863.
                                            He won election to the 
                                                United States
                                             House of Representatives as a Unionist candidate. Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 834.
                           
                                     two hours, when it was night amp; the
                                    Republicans seeing that there was no hope to accomplish any thing, one of them at
                                    last moved to adjourn when evry Dem. in the House voted against
                                    it. Anything to be contrary was their motto. But the Rep[s]. beat them on the
                                    vote amp; the House stood adjourned.
                        As the members were leaving the Hall the Speaker'" brought down his
                                    hammer amp; desired to announce a meeting of the Nation[al] Union club, when the
                                    Dem[s]. began such a hissing amp; groaning that
                                    it was impossible to hear a word the Speake[r] said. Verily our Government is more
                                    rotten than I thought it was.
                        I go to the front tomorrow—only yours J.V.H.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Hd.Qurs. 2d Brig. 4th Div 5th A.C.
                           
                                    April 27th/64
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Dearest
                        Your last letter was short but a very good one. One thing however I noticed against
                                    which I must enter my protest. It is the appellation you used—Johnny—I dont claim to be much of a man, but I
                                    certainly claim to be something more than a little boy. I dont like the
                                    name.—Call me Tom, Dick, Pet —anything else than Johnny. I was sorry to hear that you were sick… .
                        Our Regt. has been transfered from the 2d Brig. to the 1st Brigade of this Div. Genl
                                    Rice amp; Genl Cutler had a seven days fight over it amp; Cutler proves the
                                        victor.77 I dont blame Cutler for asking for the Regt. amp;
                                    fighting hard to get it. He outranks Rice by 12 monthes amp; while Rice was
                                    commanding 2700 men he (Cutler) was commanding but 1700, amp; it was right that he
                                    should ask for our Regt. inasmuch as his brigade are all Western troops amp; our
                                    Regt. the only other Western Regt. in the Corps.
                        The 1st Brig. has a big reputation—none bigger in the Army [of the]
                                    Potomac—known as the Iron Brig. amp; composed of the 2d, 6th, amp; 7th
                                    Wis., 24th Mich., amp; 19th amp; 7th Ind.78
                                    
                              
                                 76 The speaker of the House of Representatives was
                                            Indiana's Schuyler Colfax. For more information about him, see
                                            Willard H. Smith, Schuyler Colfax: The Changing Fortunes of a
                                                Political Idol (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXIII; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1952), 102-209.
                              
                                 77 See Official Records, Ser. I,
                                            Vol. XXXIII, 463, 1041.
                              
                                 78 The celebrated Iron Brigade was the only large
                                            all-Western unit in the Army of the Potomac. The Twenty-fourth Michigan and
                                            the Seventh Indiana did not join it until late in the Civil War. The best
                                            history of this unit is Alan T. Nolan, The Iron Brigade: A
                                                Military History (
                                                New York
                                            , 1961).
                           
                                     Our Regt. does not seem much pleased with the
                                    change for they had become much attached to the old 2d Brig. Though their associates
                                    were all N.Y regiments with a single exception (56 Pa. V.) the 7th if they had had
                                    their choise would not have left the old 2d Brig. for any Western, or any other
                                    Brig.
                        Dont know how it will effect me. As yet I am with the 2d Brig. Staff, amp; may
                                    remain. I would rather be in the Brig, with my regiment amp; intimated as much to
                                    Genl Rice, but he said he would not let me go unless I insisted. I shall soon see
                                    what to do.
                        The campaign may begin tomorrow—we have evrything cooked amp; ready. When
                                    my letters cease to come regularly, know then that we are at work. Be hopeful dear,
                                    that the coming campaign will not destroy our happiness. Heavens blessings upon you
                                    dear Mary.
                        
                                    John
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Hd.Qurs. 2d Brig &c
                           
                                    May 1st/64
                                
                        Beloved Mary
                        I little expected this letter would be written. I had supposed we would be on the
                                    march before this time, but we have no stronger evidences of an early march now than
                                    we had a week ago. I may write you several more letters from this same place amp;
                                    then this may be my last. We are all ready amp; have been for two weeks, amp; when
                                    the day of doing comes we'll know it amp; not before. It will not
                                    disappoint us at any hour. When we streach ourselves out on our blankets we have no
                                    assurance that we will lay there til morning. Such is war amp; such I have got tired
                                    of.
                        You don't know certainly whether you should like to be a sutlers wife in 
                                        Baltimore
                                     or not. Nor do I know certainly whether I should want you to be or not.
                                    That was only one of my amp; Chismans' air-castles. 
                                        Baltimore
                                     or no 
                                        Baltimore
                                    [,] sutler or no sutler, I feel now like I should'nt be in any
                                    great panic to get into the army again as a soldier.
                        Dearest good-night—our month[s] is but a short time, amp; if life lasts I
                                    shall soon be at your side to assure you how much I am
                        
                                    Your devoted
                                    Jno.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Hd.Qrs. 2nd Brig. 4th Div. 5th A.C.
                           
                                    June 21st 1864
                                
                        Miss Mary J. Hill
                        Your letter asking for information in respect to Lieut Hadley was received yesterday.
                                    I am happy to state, that we have heard of his whereabouts within a day or two. He
                                    was sent, on the morning of the first day's fight (May 5th), with Lieut
                                    Chisman of our staff, to advance the "skirmish line" 3/4 of a
                                    mile. He did so, and came back and reported the same to Genl. Rice, and immediately
                                    returned to stay with the "skirmish line" until the "line
                                    of battle" came up. This was the last seen of him, as he was captured with
                                    the entire line. Lieuts Chisman and [William] Mi[t]chell of our staff were also
                                    taken prisoners on that day.78
                        
                        We heard nothing concerning him until day before yesterday. We then saw his name
                                    among a list of wounded Federal officers, at Locust Grove Hospital, Wilderness, Va.
                        This list was copied from a southern paper. Under the list was a paragraph, which
                                    said, the above list have been sent to Orange Court House, Va.
                        I am very glad that I am able to give you this information, and if I hear any thing
                                    further from Lieut Hadley I will write you again. I am
                        
                                    Yours Truly
                                    A[rchibald] m C. Bush Lt and A.A.D.C.
                                
                        P.S. Please excuse pencil.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                  Ind
                           
                                    Jan. 31/64 [1865]
                                
                        Miss Mary Hill
                        Dear Mary
                        I have returned—have done my business at 
                                        Washington
                                    —have become a citizen of the State of
                                    Indiana amp; feel fully the liberties I once enjoyed.
                        If God in his goodness will permit I shall be supremely happy to greet my Mary at her
                                    fathers' house on next Saturday evening.
                        
                                    Devotedly
                                    J.V. Hadley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  78 For the Seventh Indiana's position in this battle, see Rufus
                        R. Dawes, Service with the Sixth Wisconsin Volunteers (
                     Marietta, Ohio
                  , 1890), 259-261.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               My Life: The Memoirs of Claude Bowers. (
                        New York
                    : Simon and Schuster, 1962. Pp. 346. Index. $6.50.)
            This autobiography is disappointing, chiefly because of its brevity. In his nearly eighty years
                    Bowers saw and participated in many major events in this country and abroad and he had the writing
                    skill to interpret these events and the motives of their chief actors. Ordinarily, though, a
                    sentence or two is all that is allowed to try to bring a character to life. The wonder, however, is
                    not that in this short book Bowers usually fails; it is that he succeeds as frequently as he does.
                    An example of his success is the treatment of Joaquin Miller, "the Poet of the
                    Sierras," who had left his native Indiana to gain fame in 
                        California
                    . Miller is discussed at greater length than many persons of more importance and he does
                    come alive in this book.
            Bowers' career divides into four distinct periods: the Indiana period, which includes the 
                        Washington
                     years as secretary to Senator John W. Kern (1911-1917); the period as a national
                    figure, his fame being based upon several books and his editorials in the 
                        New York
                    
                    Evening World; his diplomatic service in 
                        Spain
                     and 
                        Chile
                    ; and his return to private life and writing.
            Though born in 
                        Hamilton County
                    , Indiana, Bowers spent most of his first ten years in Whitestown in 
                        Boone County
                     before moving with his family to 
                        Lebanon
                    , the county seat. In his first chapter he is not nearly as able to evoke his boyhood in
                    Indiana in the eighties as William Allen White did for his in 
                  Emporia, Kansas
               , in roughly the same
                    period. White, however, gave much more space to this period.
            Having no money for college after his graduation from Shortridge High School, Bowers got a job with
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Sentinel, where he could express his Democratic views, but where he was paid very
                    little. In 1903 he joined the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Gazette and later ran unsuccessfully for Congress twice. Most of the public events
                    of his 
                        Washington
                     years as secretary Bowers recounts more effectively and at greater length in his
                    biography of Senator Kern than he does in My Life. And in the Lilly. Library at
                    Indiana University are a series of letters to Frank Brubeck, a 
                        Terre Haute
                     friend, in which Bowers, not writing for publication, gives a rowdy, man-to-man picture
                    of some after-hours aspects of 
                        Washington
                    . During this period he finished his first book, The Irish Orators. A
                    number of leading political figures wrote commending letters and he writes that these
                    "encouraging letters more than anything else turned my ambition toward the writing of
                    history" (P. 90).
            The economic base for his historical studies naturally enough was journalism, this time as editorial
                    writer on the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    Journal Gazette, where he stayed six years. But virtually nothing is said in this
                    autobiography about 
                        Fort Wayne
                     as a city, although Bowers seemed to enjoy the time he spent there. In addition to his
                    editorial  duties he engaged in Democratic politics and
                    researched and wrote The Party Battles of the 
                            Jackson
                         Period, which former Senator Albert J. Beveridge helped him get published.
                    This book and his editorials brought him an offer of an editorial position with the 
                        New York
                     World. His acceptance naturally took him from Indiana and was eventually to make him an
                    actor on the national and international scene.
            As the author of Jefferson and 
                            Hamilton
                        
               , Bowers became a national figure. The book was reviewed favorably by a number
                    of public figures, one of whom was F#2 D. Roosevelt (in the only book review he ever wrote), and
                    earned Bowers the Jefferson medal given by the University of Virignia to celebrate the one hundred
                    and fiftieth anniversary of the Declaration of Independence.
            After his speech at the 
                        Jackson
                     Day banquet in 
                        Washington
                    , Bowers' stature increased so that he was selected as keynote speaker at the
                    Democratic convention in 
                  Houston, Texas
               , in 1928, where A1 Smith was nominated.
                    The campaign, in which Bowers took an active part, is covered in a chapter entitled
                    "Politics Turns Putrid." But after 1930 Democratic politics took a turn for the
                    better, and following the nomination of F#2 D. Roosevelt, whom he had known for some time, Bowers
                    threw himself wholeheartedly into the campaign. In the Hearst newspapers, where he had gone when the
                        World stopped publication in 1931, he wrote "editorials [that] were
                    militantly Democratic, attacking the Hoover Administration all along the line." Bowers
                    reports that after the election Lawrence Richey of Herbert Hoover's staff mid they were
                    "the most damaging articles of the campaign" (p. 250). Bowers did not limit
                    himself to the written word, however; taking to the stump, he made speeches in Indiana, 
                        Michigan
                    , and 
                        New York
                    . On one occasion he pinch-hit for F.D.R. on a nation-wide radio hookup. Shortly before
                    the inauguration, Raymond Moley called Bowers to tell him that he had been chosen by Roosevelt to be
                    ambassador to 
                        Spain
                    .
            In My Mission to 
                            Spain
                        
               , published in 1964, Bowers had written his account of the Spanish Civil War,
                    and there is little he chooses to add to it in his autobiography. His fourteen years as ambassador
                    to 
                        Chile
                     is likewise handled in a somewhat cursory manner, perhaps because he had told the story
                    before in 
                  
                            Chile
                         through Embassy Windows, published in this country a month after his death.
                    About the five years of life remaining after his return from 
                        Chile
                    , there are only extracts from his diary selected by his daughter Patricia. They are not
                    particularly interesting.
            As noted before, there is a sketchiness about the book. The reader learns in a general way where
                    Bowers was, what he did, and whom he saw and talked with and occasionally the reader receives a
                    sharp impression. But there seem, from this book, to have been no intellectual, moral, or even
                    political quandaries. Nothing is said about the writing of history except that newspapers and
                    letters and journals of the time studied are most useful. Of all Bowers' biographical works
                    the least illuminating is the one on Claude G. Bowers.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Louis E. Lambert
         
         
         
            
               DePauw through the Years. Two volumes. By George B. Manhart. (
                        Greencastle
                    , Ind.: DePauw University, 1962. Vol. I, Indiana Asbury University,
                        1887-1884; DePauw University, 188.4-1919: Pp. xii, 303. Vol. II, DePauw
                        University, 1919-1962: Pp. x, 307-596. Illustrations, bibliographical notes, appendixes,
                    index. $7.60.)
            One hundred years ago the record of Indiana Asbury University was honorable but not particularly more
                    distinguished than the records of several other Methodist colleges. Like its sister institutions it
                    was struggling to survive the Civil War. Paradoxically an enrollment of 61 students brought
                    temporary financial stability even though no tuition was paid. Today more than 2,300 students,
                    three-fourths of whom ranked in the top 10 per cent of their high school class, each pay
                    $2,200 in tuition and other charges to attend what has become one of the better private
                    institutions of higher learning in the 
                        United States
                    .
            Formerly 85 per cent of the students came from Methodist homes in Hoosierland. Today less than 40 per
                    cent are of Methodist origin (and other leading denominations include Presbyterian, Episcopalian,
                    and Roman Catholic). Only 30 per cent of the student body now comes from Indiana, with large
                    contingents from 
                  Illinois, Ohio, Missouri
               , and 
                        Michigan
                    . California is the home of 1,300 alumni and Florida numbers over 500. What brought
                    about this metamorphosis?
            Professor George B. Manhart, for thirty-seven years a member of the history department, recounts this
                    success saga in two meaty volumes, which conclude with excellent bibliographical notes. Volume One,
                    arranged mostly on a chronological plan, tells how the name was changed in honor of a major
                    donor— W#2 C. DePauw. Volume Two, following a more topical pattern, pays tribute to
                    Edward Rector and many less widely publicized donors.
            Curriculum development is one of the topics receiving detailed coverage. Highlights are summarized in
                    two unique charts. One indicates that in 1859, 70 per cent of the requirements for the B.A. degree
                    consisted of Greek, Latin, mathematics, and science as compared with 30 per cent in 1957. In 1859
                    there were eight faculty members providing instruction in seven departments. One hundred years later
                    there were twenty times as many instructors and four times as many departments and two-thirds of the
                    faculty were teaching subjects not listed previously and in some cases not even in existence, e.g.,
                    physical education, education, nursing, home economics, and air science.
            In general, relations with the Methodist church appear to have been excellent, as evidenced by the
                    election of six presidents as bishops, the existence of numerous campus religious organizations
                    (which have not, however, kept pace with the fraternities and sororities), the setting up of
                    archives for Indiana Methodism (1951), the bringing of Old Bethel Church from 
                        Charleston
                     to the campus (1955), and the inauguration of Methodist Youth Day (1957). But there
                    have been some issues which became controversial, particularly as the percentage of Methodist
                    students declined.
            Prior to 1924, the Methodist Book of Discipline forbade the "use of alchoholic beverages,
                    dancing, attending theatrical performances of any  kind, or
                    playing cards or billiards" (p. 263). Smoking was prohibited in any college building.
                    According to Professor Manhart, "whatever may be said with regard to the wisdom of this
                    policy it had at least one good result in that it stimulated the ingenuity of the students in
                    finding alternative methods of entertainment" (p. 493). Antidancing regulations proved
                    particularly difficult to enforce and led to all kinds of subterfuges and hypocrisies. As a result
                    of a less stringent definition of imprudent conduct by the General Conference of the Methodist
                    Church in 1924, dancing at fraternity houses was legalized by college authorities. Despite protests
                    (which were far outnumbered by commendations) the new policy was not changed and a junior prom has
                    been an annual event since 1930.
            The two volumes are loaded with data, some of which borders on the trivial, viz., a paragraph on
                    campus dogs during the 1890's (p. 270). Much research has made possible a wealth of
                    information regarding distinguished alumni and faculty members. Extracurricular activities are well
                    handled, including the development of an intercollegiate athletic program which was acclaimed in
                    1930 by the Survey of Methodist Institutions. Presidents and board members are
                    accorded due recognition.
            Since the author does not summarize the causes for the metamorphosis mentioned in the second
                    paragraph, the reviewer will attempt to do so. DePauw has become a cosmopolitan institution of
                    excellence for at least four reasons: (1) Consistently there have been able presidents and dedicated
                    faculty and board members. (2) Methodists and Methodist organizations have been proud of
                    DePauw's achievements and generous in their support. (3) There has been remarkable success
                    in maintaining support (financial and otherwise) from alumni, friends, corporations, and
                    foundations. (4) There has been adherence to the objective of DePauw as "a spirit of
                    democracy, a spirit of veneration for religion and learning, a spirit which earnestly attempts to
                    train youth to met the needs of themselves and this harrassed and troubled world" (p. 520).
            
                    McKendree College
                
            Max P. Allen
         
         
            
               The Story of Purdue Engineering. By H. B. Knoll. ([West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Ind.]: Purdue University Studies, 1963. Pp. viii, 430. Illustrations, index.
                    $8.00.)
            One hundred and one years ago Congress enacted the Morrill Act, which made available to each state a
                    sizeable grant-in-aid for colleges of agriculture and mechanical arts. The Indiana legislature
                    formally accepted the grant in 1865. Four years later, this same body set the location of the school
                    in 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     and accepted $150,000 from John Purdue to start building it. Although
                    students began to arrive in the fall of 1874, the main building was not completed until a couple of
                    years later. Thus, began the story of Purdue University.
            In some respects, writing a history of a university can be more difficult than writing other
                    historical accounts. Perhaps, this is because of the nature of the source material dealing with such
                    a subject. Annual  presidential reports and university
                    catalogues, to say nothing of bulletins and circulars, contain a certain sterility which militates
                    against the production of a lively history. Furthermore, a writer may find that reliance upon
                    bulletins and school papers can be a risky venture since the very nature of such publications
                    suggests a probable bias. For the most part, then, there remains for the writer of college histories
                    only biographical materials, which he finds must be employed with the greatest of care; a wide
                    variety of contemporary accounts, which he discovers are at best fragmentary and incomplete; and
                    memoirs, which he recognizes as being vulnerable to the vagaries of the human mind. In view of these
                    circumstances, the task confronting Professor Knoll was formidable from the outset.
            
               The Story of Purdue Engineering traces the history of Indiana's
                    illustrious land-grant university from its earliest beginnings to the present. The book is divided
                    into two parts. Part One, consisting of five chapters, presents in chronological order the events
                    which took place during the administrations of Purdue's seven presidents. Although it
                    successfully reveals the general development of the university, it unfortunately contains excessive
                    amounts of biographical detail. In Part Two, eight chapters are devoted to tracing the development
                    of engineering in particular, while the ninth and final chapter is reserved for a biographical
                    sketch of A. A. Potter, who served as dean of engineering at Purdue from 1920 until his retirement
                    in 1953. The merit of dividing the book into these two parts is more apparent than real. It results
                    in needless repetition that is both annoying and confusing. For the author to admit "there
                    is thus some repetition in the writing, but not much" (p. viii) does not make it any more
                    desirable. Although biographical details seem excessive throughout the volume, the author is to be
                    commended on both his ability and his willingness to view his subjects objectively.
            The greatest single criticism of this volume is the complete absence of footnotes. Mere mention of
                    sources in the preface or occasional citations in the text itself are inadequate substitutes for the
                    traditional form of documentation. Footnotes listed by chapter in the back of the book would have
                    permitted the author to make a scholarly presentation with little danger of his work suffering any
                    loss of popular appeal.
            It is in the use of anecdote that the author is at his best. He employs this technique frequently and
                    effectively. It not only adds an element of human interest but also contributes a desirable degree
                    of cohesiveness to the entire story.
            Professor Knoll has written an interesting and readable account of one of the nation's
                    best-known institutions of higher learning. Illustrations are both adequate and appropriate and
                    present a balanced array of people, buildings, and equipment. The general public will find the book
                    entertaining as well as informative. Certainly, the Purdue alumnus will peruse its pages with more
                    than an occasional twinge of nostalgia.
            
                    Ball State Teachers College
                
            R. H. Caldemeyer
         
         
         
            
               Ohio Town. By Helen Hooven Santmyer. ([
                        Columbus
                    ]: The Ohio State University Press, 1962. Pp. 309. Endpaper map, illustrations.
                    $5.75.)
            This book mingles undocumented history and personal memories in a nostalgic effort to evoke the past
                    of 
                  Xenia, Ohio
               , and contrast it with the town at present. The result is a lively
                    account that entices the reader's attention from the first page to the last.
            As Miss Santmyer says in her "Acknowledgments": "The following sketches
                    are drawn mostly from memory, mine or my elders'; the passage of time may have colored some
                    events to the detriment of accuracy." Perhaps this is so. Yet one feels that, though she
                    may be unwittingly at times a bit unfaithful to the facts, the broad truth of her narrative remains.
                    The author gives as her secondary sources Howe's Historical Collections of 
                            Ohio
                        
               , four histories of 
                        Greene County
                    , Black's The Little Miami Railroad, and the reminiscences of
                    various citizens published in the 
                  
                            Xenia
                         Daily Gazette. In addition, she used a "Cemetery Book" and
                    public library records to enrich two of the sketches.
            In all, Miss Santmyer presents thirteen of these sketches, centering on the chief landmarks of 
                        Xenia
                    . She includes (besides the cemetery and the library) the courthouse, the church, the
                    school, the Opera House, the main streets, the railroad that runs through the center of the town,
                    and the covered bridges spanning the creeks that bisect nearby country roads. She writes with
                    understanding and affection of the unusually large Negro population concentrated in the East End.
                    Indeed, the author's deepest interest throughout the book is in the people, from the
                    "leading citizens" and the millionaires, who were not quite sure how they were
                    expected to behave, to the lowliest servants, who seemed to feel no stigma in performing the most
                    menial tasks.
            In her references to persons, however, I note two puzzling omissions. Except for merely mentioning a
                    book by Whitelaw Reid, she makes no allusion to him or to another 
                        Xenia
                     native, Ridgely Torrence. After growing up in 
                        Xenia
                    , Reid attended nearby Miami University before going on to 
                        New York
                    , where he became editor of the Tribune; later he served as our
                    ambassador at the Court of St. James and as the Republican nominee for vice-president in 1892.
                    Likewise from 
                        Xenia
                    , Torrence attended Miami two years, was graduated from 
                        Princeton
                    , and became a noted editor, poet, and dramatist in 
                        New York City
                    . If Torrence was not indelibly a part of 
                        Xenia
                    , the town was inerasably a part of him, for his Plays for the Negro
                        Theater (1917) grew partly from his direct acquaintance with and love for the colored
                    people of 
                        Xenia
                    . Surely Miss Santmyer has her own reasons for omitting the two most illustrious sons of
                    her town. Still, in my opinion, she errs in the omission.
            She sees all the persons and places in her book with the double vision of a small girl experiencing
                    and a grown woman remembering and revisiting. Often she writes with poignant regret of the changes
                    industrialization has wrought in the little city whose freedom she enjoyed in childhood and
                    adolescence. Of her characterizations I liked especially  those
                    of Miss McElwain, the old-time librarian who ruled with strictness her little kingdom, and of Dr.
                    Will, the general practitioner who always took time to visit in a leisurely manner with his
                    patients. Interesting likewise is her mention of the interurban lines, now entirely faded from the
                    scene, and of the shrill whistle of the steam locomotive which interrupted the famous Joe Jefferson
                    and lesser players in performances at the Opera House before giving way to the low moan of the
                    Diesel.
            Miss Santmyer has not only a retentive memory and a quick eye for the interesting anecdote; she has
                    also an admirable literary style, a fact not particularly strange since she has published two
                    novels. She expresses herself with particularity and vividness. For example, in describing a country
                    road which crossed a covered bridge, she writes: "A road like this was not built for anyone
                    in a hurry. It follows every curve of the stream, and when the flat space narrows so that it must
                    cross to the other bank, it approaches the covered bridge at a right angle and then, without any
                    wide graded curve, turns abruptly and disappears into the dark mouth of the tunnel" (p.
                    258).
            Somewhat carried away with her subject, the author asserts, "The town is Winesburg and Spoon
                    River, it is Highbury and Cranford, it is even Illyria and Elsinore" (p. 80). Miss
                    Santmyer's 
                        Xenia
                    , however, bears little resemblance to any of these fictional places, each of them
                    unique. Her book, rather, recalls the work of another novelist who once lived near 
                        Xenia
                    . I refer, of course, to William Dean Howells and his A Boy's
                    Town, which also happens to chronicle the life of another southwestern Ohio town, 
                        Hamilton
                    . To say that it deserves a place on the same shelf with Howells' interesting
                    book is to indicate the chief merit of Ohio Town.
            
            
                    Miami University
                
            Eldon C. Hill
         
         
            
               Benjamin 
                            Franklin
                         Wade: Radical Republican from 
                            Ohio
                        . By H. L. Trefousse. (
                        New York
                    : Twayne Publishers, Inc., 1963. Pp. 404. Frontispiece, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $6.50.)
            Noting that there is only one biography of Wade—and this one written shortly after his
                    death—and that most writers who have evaluated him have given an unfavorable view of him
                    personally and politically, Professor Trefousse resolved that a more extensive biography and a
                    reappraisal of the Ohio leader were in order. The biography is based upon extensive research and the
                    reappraisal leaves an image of Wade as a reformer, a humanitarian interested in emancipation of the
                    slaves and the welfare of the Negro, and an aggressive fighter whose tactics furthered his aims,
                    even if his opponents sometimes construed such tactics as too militant.
            The author follows Wade's New 
                        England
                     background and his early political career in 
                        Ohio
                    ; his career as 
                        United States
                     senator during the stormy decade of the 1850's; his activities during the
                    Civil War period as chairman of the Committee on the Conduct of the War and as a not infrequent
                    critic of 
                        Lincoln
                    's policies; and, finally, his break with 
                    Johnson over Reconstruction policies. During this long career, Wade is viewed as a champion of Negro
                    rights and a proponent of free homesteads and, in later years, of woman suffrage and favorable labor
                    legislation. As a loyal Whig, he supported the bank and tariff policies of that party.
            Wade's Civil War activities and the part he played in connection with the impeachment and
                    trial of Andrew Johnson are treated with reasonable balance and objectivity; however, the
                    controversial aspects of the 1850's and of Southern Reconstruction are handled in such a
                    slanted fashion as to present the Ohio senator in quite too favorable a light.
            The author, in pointing out that his subject advocated equality for the Negro, concedes that
                    privately Wade expressed strong racial prejudice. Then Professor Trefousse states: "But it
                    was precisely because Wade was prejudiced that he believed it imperative to guard against public
                    expression of private irrational notions" (p. 312). Yet, in the very speech which the
                    author cites at length (pp. 115-116) to show that Wade felt strongly concerning Negro rights, the
                    senator, declining judgment as to whether the prejudice was right or wrong, stated also that Negroes
                    were "despised by all, repudiated by all"; that they were "just as
                    abhorrent to the southern states, and perhaps more so, than to the North"; that southern
                    states were pressuring them northward, "and we object to them"; and that
                    "it is perfectly impossible that these two races can inhabit the same place, and be
                    prosperous and happy." The only reference that the author makes to the part quoted above is
                    that the Ohio leader felt there was a serious race problem, and "in his reply to Toombs in
                    March, 1860, he strongly advocated colonization again" (p. 118). Further evidence, not
                    cited in this monograph, of Wade's public utterances disparaging the Negro may be found in
                    a Senate speech in December, 1860, answering charges that the Republican party favored racial
                    equality (Cong. Globe, 36th Cong., 2d Sess., pt. 1, p. 104).
            
                    The Ohio State University
                
            Henry H. Simms
         
         
            
               Turbulent Partnership: Missouri and the Union, 1861-1865. By William E. Parrish. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of Missouri Press, 1963. Pp. xvi, 242. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $5.50.)
            The Civil War years were times of fundamental, indeed revolutionary, transformations in federal-state
                    relationships; and nowhere was the nature and extent of these changes more apparent and troublesome
                    than in a border state such as 
                        Missouri
                    . Rejecting secession and fully aware that the economic future of the state depended
                    upon adherence to the Union, the people of Missouri nevertheless showed a considerable sympathy for
                    the social mores of the South and an even greater attachment to the division of power characteristic
                    of the prewar republic.
            In the years between 1861 and 1865 Missouri faced and solved, more or less successfully, the numerous
                    problems created by secession  and civil war. The state refused
                    to accept secession, but found it necessary to establish a provisional government after the
                    regularly elected officials went over to the Confederacy. Such a de facto
                    government, although recognized by the 
                        Lincoln
                     administration, encountered many obstacles in its dealings with 
                        Washington
                     and with the 
                        United States
                     military commanders in 
                        Missouri
                    . Additionally it was required to handle the complex issues of civil war within its
                    borders, inadequate finances, emancipation, and the political threat posed by the Radicals who
                    condemned the more conservative provisional government for its failure to keep abreast of the
                    rapidly changing situation. In such circumstances the relationship between Missouri and the Union
                    was indeed a turbulent partnership.
            Professor Parrish has given us a remarkably complete and judicious account of this period in the
                    history of Missouri and of the nation. His work is a calm, dispassionate appraisal of turbulent
                    times and is based on sound research. Although his judgments are unusually balanced and objective
                    they are on occasion overstated. For example the comment that the Missouri provisional government
                    "constituted a unique experiment, the only government in the entire history of the 
                        United States
                     established by a convention legally in existence for an entirely different
                    reason" (p. 47) ignores completely the example of the federal Constitutional Convention.
                    Professor Parrish's writing is less successful than his scholarship. His style is a
                    straightforward but prosaic one, rarely relieved by liveliness and sparkle. These are but minor
                    flaws, however, in a book with few faults.
            It is also regrettable that so good a work is not provided with at least one serviceable map. The one
                    reproduced as the frontispiece is almost totally useless.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            John A. Jenkins
         
         
         
            Information concerning Hoosier Regulators Desired
            Professor Richard M. Brown, Department of History, Rutgers University, 
                  New Brunswick, New
                        Jersey
               , is making a study of American regulators and vigilantes. Dr. Brown
                    would appreciate any sort of information about regulators, vigilantes, horse thief detective
                    associations, bank protective associations, or similar organizations in Indiana from territorial
                    times to the present.
         
         
            Historical Materials about Wilbur F. Storey Desired
            Justin E. Walsh, Hoosier Courts 15-1, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, is anxious to locate any copies of the 
                        La Porte
                     Herald, 1839 to April, 1841 and the 
                        Mishawaka
                    
                    Tocsin, March, 1841, to May, 1842. These weekly newspapers were edited by Wilbur
                    F. Storey, the subject of Mr. Walsh's doctoral dissertation in history at Indiana
                    University, and so far as is known no copies are extant. Also, any leads on information or papers of
                    the Horatio Chapin family of 
                        South Bend
                     would be appreciated since Horatio Chapin's first wife, Martha Storey Chapin,
                    who died in 1846, was Wilbur F. Storey's sister.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
