
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 23, Issue 4, pages 365-486. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:23+issue:4+year:1927&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            The Outlook for History
            LOGAN ESAREY
            
            
                    Many careful students of modern life assert that they discern in society a widespread discontent
                        with the results of historical study as pursued today.
                
            After reading a score of recent books and magazine articles on the subject the sentence quoted above
                    naturally comes to mind. One can scarcely believe it is thirty years old, yet it is the first
                    sentence in the first article of the first number of the American Historical
                    Review, October, 1895. A critic thirty years later says: 
                        It is not unfair, then, to designate the current political historiography as an incomplete
                            melodramatic exposition of a superficial and distorted view of human society and social
                            evolution.
                    
            
            Dr. Harry Barnes, author of the statement just quoted, might be said to speak from experience, having
                    written a considerable amount of "current political historiography."
            Fifteen years ago Dr. Edward Channing said: 
                        In looking about for writers of history in this country at the present moment the seeker is
                            met with greater discouragement than would befall him in almost any other path of original
                            research.
                    
            
            In 1920 the American Historical Association appointed a committee to inquire into the condition of
                    historiography in  the 
                        United States
                    . John Spencer Bassett writing the preface to the committee report in 1926 says: 
                        About one fact in this connection we can hardly have two opinions: fifty years ago historians
                            like Bancroft and Prescott stood side by side with the great poets at the top of the world
                            of letters. ∗∗∗ Today the historian's influence
                            has waned.
                    
            
            James Harvey Robinson after a lifetime of service at 
                        Columbia
                     rather suddenly discovered that his methods were wrong. C. W. Alvord seemed to realize
                    near the close of his life that his work had been largely in vain. Nearly every one of the thirty
                    volumes of the American Historical Review has a paper in similar vein, most of
                    them written by the presidents of the American Historical Association.
            The laymen reading this literature would feel that the historical profession was on the point of
                    bankruptcy and the younger members might almost despair. There is no intention here to analyze this
                    literature of revolt or despair but a few suggestions can scarcely be avoided.
            In the first place the Association is on an extraordinarily high plane of scholarship. Few real
                    scholars, students, are ever satisfied with the results of their work. Newton, Darwin, Descartes
                    were very modest concerning the magnitude of their discoveries. History is perhaps the amplest field
                    of human investigation and no single individual can rightly hope to accomplish much.
            Secondly, the critical is the proper professional attitude. There is no active profession able to
                    meet all its promises. Not only in results but in methods is constant change necessary. Isaac
                    Blackford was doubtless the best lawyer in Indiana a century ago but if living today would scarcely
                    be able to practice, due to changes both in methods of practice and in the nature of litigated
                    questions. It is notorious that written histories are soon out of date for similar reasons.
            Thirdly, society has been led to expect from historians, especially from the teaching members,
                    services which no historian can ever hope to render.
            Lastly, there is a seemingly hopeless variance among members of the profession concerning the purpose
                    or purposes of history. Originally history was a form of literature whose  chief purpose was entertainment. As such the early historians were
                    rivals of the epic bards in the art of story-telling. During the ecclesiastical period of the middle
                    ages history was the servant of theology, devoted to morals. During the period of Rationalism
                    history was supposed to contribute to philosophy, especially in the field of cosmogony. During the
                    eighteenth and far into the nineteenth century history was political. With the rise of nationality
                    history became patriotic. Naturally those who allowed themselves to be obsessed with these
                    restricted views were disappointed.
            The chief interest of historians is in the past. They are particularly susceptible to historical
                    influences; Gibbon would have preferred to live in the time of the great Roman emperors. They are
                    peculiarly liable to become separated from the present and lose faith in the future. Jeremiah in his
                    lamentations had nothing on a group of elderly historians discussing either the future or the past.
                    For these and other reasons we need not be surprised at this persistent note of protest or even
                    revolt by professional historians.
            It will be generally accepted without argument that history is limited strictly by available
                    evidence. Although accepted' tacitly by historians and readers, theoretically, it is
                    ignored in practice by many writers and perhaps a large majority of readers. One can scarcely
                    believe that many readers ever make an effort to satisfy themselves on this point. Nevertheless,
                    since the time of Gibbon, Niebuhr and Ranke evidence has been a condition precedent of history. This
                    reaction followed or perhaps was in response to the failure of the attempt to write a satisfactory
                    cosmic philosophy from the standpoint of history.
            A fascinating delusion of history has always been that by looking down the trail by which we have
                    arrived at the present we will be enabled to prognosticate the future. This we have termed the
                    philosophy of history. A century ago it was a promising fallacy as the Hegelians and Montesquieux
                    testify. But the spirit of prophecy refused to settle on the historians. The failure of the
                    conclusion, as usual, suggested a critical examination of the premises. Herodotus and his family
                    were haled into court, cross-examined and convicted both of accidental  and intentional error. Von Ranke, the herald of the old "new
                    history," then announced that the purpose of history would thenceforth be to ascertain what
                    are the facts of the past—Was ist die Wahrheit?
            Once the task was undertaken no craftsmen ever plied their trade with greater zeal. We rolled the
                    stones away that the graves might give up their secrets, we unearthed the ruins of ancient cities,
                    we reconstructed the dead languages, we sent among the savage tribes and studied their kindergarten
                    institutions, we pushed back the frontiers of the prehistoric world in every direction and gathered
                    the spoils into our museums. All the literary monuments were gathered together, authenticated,
                    restored, transliterated and translated. Written documents, letters, papers, official and private,
                    were collected, registered, calendered, indexed, edited and published.
            A marvelous critical technic was developed. The workers were divided into historians, economists,
                    archaeologists, sociologists, anthropologists, philologists, political scientists and of late
                    psychologists, each with minor court rules for sifting evidence and the witnesses have been
                    cross-questioned and every error properly marked with a black flag.
            In our back-yard we keep a vast number of novitiates learning to use our tools by gathering,
                    interpreting and comparing evidence on small and insignificant episodes which may be ready for use
                    by the masters in the preparation of their numerous histories.
            More and more as the century passed attention was fixed on criticism. From the Ecole des Chartes of 
                        Paris
                     down to the small college seminary students were trained in research, in the mysteries
                    of heuristic, internal and external criticism, in the conventions of editing, in bibliography,
                    note-taking and foot-noting. Nothing more natural than that many instructors would stray from the
                    main path and devote their efforts to these minor operations. Often instructors gave their time to
                    culling information from popular magazines and called it research. We are acquainted with the
                    dissertation overloaded with bibliography, with the one overwhelmed with foot notes, with the one
                    filched from some secondary source  and the one patched up from
                    the periodicals. Even though these shortcomings are admitted, they are hardly sufficient excuse for
                    giving up the field. Other professions such as the law, the ministry, medicine, geology and the rest
                    have similar difficulties, some of them much more serious. History has made great progress in the
                    century. Historical scholarship is certainly higher than it was a century ago. From a modest
                    handmaid in the department of the Classics history has become one of the larger departments in the
                    universities with as large and noisy a faculty as any except Literature.
            Two presidents of the American Historical Association, Roosevelt and Wilson, have served as
                    presidents of the 
                        United States
                    . While neither rose to the highest level of statesmanship each acquitted himself
                    honorably.
            With some successes to its credit the historians still have some serious immediate problems. The
                    world is always impatient for results. We are confronted with a demand for a history of civilization
                    along the lines of behavioristic psychology; not merely the record of the past but an answer to the
                    question "Why do folks behave as they do." This is referred to by its proponents
                    as the New History. This "new type of historian" "holds that the purpose
                    of history is to give the present generation such a complete and reliable picture of the past that
                    it will be able to arrive at an intelligent comprehension of how and why the present state of
                    civilization came about." They "maintain that history must take into account the
                    sum total of human achievement." They admit and therefore it need not be charged, that they
                    have given it "a broader, sounder and more human content."
            A careful analysis of the above proposal reduces it to a bit of self advertising. For at least a
                    century what we are pleased to call scientific history has been engaged in preparing a history of
                    civilization. Slowly and even painfully error and prejudice have been sifted from the materials.
                    From time to time the sifted materials have been organized, or, as the New Historians prefer,
                    synthesized.
            The "How" and the "Why" in history lead us into much more
                    difficult grounds. In the ordinary meaning of the word, How refers to the means used in
                    accomplishing an end and so  comes in the field of historical
                    investigation. Why is usually understood to refer to the motives in men's minds and these
                    can only be approximated on the basis that men intend to do the things their actions would naturally
                    lead to. This is historical interpretation and never can be settled absolutely by any methods now
                    known to historians.
            If a theological determination is implied in the How and Why, that is, How or Why life first began on
                    this planet, we are led into a field where the documents fail us utterly. Mr. H. G. Wells in his Outlines has traversed this field with apparent confidence but so far as history
                    is concerned it is only another illustration of the proverb of the fools and angels. The problem is
                    clearly within the fields of Biology and Geology and it will scarcely make it history to print it
                    under such a title. Of course polliwogs have a history but it is doubtful if it will throw much
                    light on human conduct.
            Again, if, under the questions How and Why, a theory of creation is implied, History or the
                    historical method can furnish little or no evidence. We may have our individual preferences between
                    the biological and theological theories but it is sheer vanity to attempt to discuss the question
                    historically.
            Again, it seems some of the new historians are bewildered by the mass of materials modern history has
                    placed at public disposal and the very quantity does offer some difficulty. Some teachers, for
                    instance, seem to think it necessary that students acquire this mass of material as information.
                    Some writers, likewise, seem to think it necessary that no detail be left out of the written
                    history. A more sensible solution would be to let the superabundant material lie in the libraries
                    and museums until there is some legitimate demand. The geologist or zoologist does not feel
                    constrained to use all his available material. There seems no immediate danger of preserving or
                    accumulating too much.
            As any one might suspect and as most historians know, the chief difficulty lies in the field of
                    interpretation, often confused with internal or the higher criticism. The problem is difficult. Not
                    only is it impossible to penetrate to the mind of the actor but nothing is more often disguised than
                    our real intentions. Tact, discretion, strategy all consist essentially  in disguising intention and these are all honorable qualities. Add to
                    these all the meaner traits, deception, lieing, intrigue, chicanery and we have a formidable
                    barrier. Nor is this all. From age to age the ruling motive in society has changed. At one time the
                    world is religious, at another, mercenary, at another, political, while individuals may be governed
                    by ambition, pride, sympathy, scientific or selfish interest and so on through the whole category.
            For centuries we have halted on the question of the freedom of the will and just now it is the
                    fashion of the New History to abolish the will altogether and assume that men's actions are
                    determined by a long train of events the effects of which linger in the subconscious mind. This is
                    certainly a partial truth but in a deeper sense it is the old game of passing the buck, since some
                    one, sometime, must have originated the train of action. Accepted at its face the theory is not
                    satisfactory. With such as the chief motive, history sinks almost to the level of a natural science
                    and what is called character or personality in history disappears. There is no longer a distinction
                    between Baalam and Baalam's Ass. However it has at least two arguments in its favor: it
                    certainly is the proper interpretation of much of our routine conduct and it furnishes a
                    comparatively easy escape from a very difficult situation. In a very real sense it is a return in
                    disguise to the old doctrine of foreordination.
            A similarly simple motive is the providential. Nothing is simpler than to attribute to a convenient
                    deity the determination of moral conduct. The origin of this interpretation is apparent. It is not
                    long since all kings seemed to consider themselves agents of the Most High and we still hear
                    presidents of the 
                        United States
                     prate somewhat similarly. Nor is the habit entirely passed with respectable historians,
                    though it is used by indirection or innuendo. The thought is humiliating to reverent minds yet
                    respectable readers and audiences tolerate it often with satisfaction. The Dew ex
                        Machine formerly used by classical dramatists is now generally reduced to the servitude of
                    politicians of doubtful virtue. In the text books it is especially vicious since nothing is more
                    capable of evil than 2n honest ignorant person possessed with the idea  that providence is operating through him for the accomplishment of some
                    purpose. Such assumed partnerships are more reprehensible because they include many ignorant or
                    unwilling third parties. In the field of personal delusions there is perhaps none which so readily
                    insinuates itself into the mind nor one that lingers more persistently in public opinion. One is
                    much amused at the simple-minded Homer introducing his gods so freely in the affairs of men and yet
                    the idea pervades modern historical literature. So far as conduct is concerned it serves only as a
                    sedative to conscience and an abrogation of morality.
            Natural Science has suggested the interpretation by environment. No question is made of its partial
                    validity in the consideration of long periods. Both physical and mental adjustments have been
                    necessary to meet the demands for food and shelter. It is a commonplace that the insular situation
                    of 
                        England
                     has had an influence on the English people, but the judgment belongs in the domain of
                    geography. There is no documentary evidence back of it as there is back of the historical fact that
                    Victoria was crowned in 1837. One would scarcely maintain that the conduct of George Third or 
                        Washington
                     could be satisfactorily explained by geographical conditions. As a thoroughgoing ground
                    of historical interpretation it is scarcely sufficient.
            Quite recently has come a suggestion from the physiologists and pathologists that conduct is
                    determined by the physical condition of the human organism. One may easily conclude that Charles V
                    of 
                        Spain
                     was influenced even decisively by a loathsome and deadly disease. General Grant on the
                    contrary preserved his equanimity and continued his usual work up to the day of his death with full
                    knowledge that his months were numbered by an equally slow and fatal disease. It is common knowledge
                    that men act very differently under apparently similar pathological conditions. The idea appeals
                    strongly to us at present but historians remember that astrology once had a similar appeal. Here
                    again, as in the previous paragraph, the connection between conduct and pathological condition is
                    inferential and not documentary and so not historical. However the question has great interest and
                    promise to historians as well as to criminal courts and alienists.
            
            During the last half century morality express or implied has been the determining factor in
                    historical interpretation. It has never been wholly satisfactory, since there is no general
                    agreement on ethical validity. Without entering into any discussion one may point out the wide
                    differences between absolute and relative ethics. Whether one regards human sacrifice, polygamy,
                    persecution, witchcraft and theft worthy of historical condemnation depends on his system of ethics.
                    Historians as a rule profess to believe in relative ethics but usually manage to insinuate a
                    judgment based on the absolute. They recognize the justice of trying a man by the standards of his
                    time but they are usually overzealous to express their opinions concerning the standards.
            It seems a confusion of thought to speak of the social or economic motive. These are merely the
                    fields where morality functions in conduct. Outside these fields one rarely characterizes conduct as
                    moral or immoral.
            Here then is a real difficulty for the profession. The Biologists in the theory of evolution,
                    operating through natural or other selection, have a working hypothesis. They assume with some
                    confidence it has been thus from the beginning and will continue so. The physicist and chemist have
                    almost absolute faith in the behavior of material and the Validity of its laws. The historian having
                    no universally accepted ground of explanation of the present is unable to satisfy himself as to how
                    or whence we came or whither we are bound. Until the laws of humanity are as well understood as the
                    laws of nature this difficulty will remain.
            The question of motive is most prominent in biography. The difficulty has given rise to at least
                    three forms of biographical writing. The simplest is epic in its nature. The biographer supplies the
                    motive throughout and we have the simple personal, usually heroic, record. In the second form the
                    biographer gives a history of the times, leaving to the reader to determine the part played by the
                    subject. The third is documentary and usually is not very attractive. The first is used almost
                    exclusively by the hero worshippers. It is to be found especially in the books intended for school
                    children, where an attempt by the children to imitate the conduct of these hand-made heroes
                    ultimately leads a large number of  them into crime. The second
                    form of biography finds its readers among the more intelligent class while discriminating scholars
                    demand the third.
            In the first form the biographer allows his subject to hitch his wagon to a star and drive
                    resistlessly over all surroundings and circumstances. This philosophy makes this form of biography
                    the more pernicious in the hands of children. Whatever influence psychoanalysis, Freudianism,
                    psychiatry, psychology and other forms of determinism will have on biography, it is certainly safe
                    to predict that human biography will not soon be reduced to a mathematical formula by any one of
                    these processes. Perhaps there will be a compromise and instead of our conventional hero swimming
                    majestically up current or drifting helplessly down he will lay a three-quarter course down stream
                    and cross as sensible swimmers have always done.
            There seems a tendency at present to close the main historical office and devote our whole attention
                    to by-products. We hear of applied history. The phrase is doubtless borrowed from science. Just what
                    it means is not apparent in that sense. A scientist may devote his whole time to experiment and
                    study. As such he is called a pure scientist. If he use his discoveries for practical or commercial
                    purposes he is an applied scientist. Carrying out the comparison it is presumed a pure historian is
                    one who devotes his whole time to the pursuit of historical truth or criticism and an applied
                    historian makes a practical application or synthesizes. However valuable the distinction in science
                    it doesn't seem to be of great worth to history. He would, I think, be a very poor engineer
                    who was unable to demonstrate every principle he put into practice. In other words, if he has his
                    laboratory clothes on he is a scientist; if he wears his overalls he is an engineer. Likewise if a
                    historian devotes himself to research he is only a historian. If he writes up his finds in the
                    economic field he is an economist, if in the field of politics, a political scientist; if in the
                    field of society, a sociologist, etc. In every case he must perforce be a historian first. There is
                    certainly no jealousy or envy from the historian's standpoint in the statement. In the
                    sense that sociology claims social conditions  as its special
                    bailiwick, history has none. No man, so far, has been discovered just making history. He has always
                    been found rather in politics, business, or what not. There are two possibilities of mischief in
                    useless division of work. There is no logical limit to the number, and some persons may even suspect
                    virtue in mere division. For instance a political scientist may be looked upon as a distinct species
                    of homo from a mere economist or anthropologist. The perennial New Historians are restless at the
                    slow pace and would call off all the workers from the slow processes of research and throw them into
                    the more spectacular fields of synthesis, forgetting that synthesis has ever tended to run ahead of
                    analysis or research. One of the reasons why errors inhere so long in our school texts is the fact
                    that texts are usually written by professional or hack writers rather than investigators.
            It may indeed be time to send larger and larger numbers of trained historians into the field of
                    active affairs. There is, I think, no doubt but that historical-mindedness and the historical
                    attitude in all social affairs are worth while. A social question is half solved when its history is
                    honestly written. There is no remedy for war half so potent as an honest history of wars. The danger
                    again comes not from the plodder in laboratories but from the fakir in the field. For each Robinson
                    doing constructive work there are ten 
                        Wells
                     exploiting the field. For every trained historian, and no other can do dependable work,
                    in a social, political or better business bureau there are five who have had the ordinary training
                    of a Y. M. C. A. secretary. There seems little help for this until the general intelligence of the
                    public is higher. Professional service cannot run far ahead of the intelligence of its own public.
            For this condition of the public mind the historians must assume something more than their proportion
                    of blame. Our own standards of professional criticism, especially in the popular magazines and
                    newspapers, are low and subject in many instances to indirect mercenary influences. Personally I
                    would much prefer to have the editor of the American Historical Review, or some
                    person elected by the Association for that purpose, do all the critical writing.
            
            Finally the matter of literary form must always give the profession trouble. Not all individuals who
                    have historical inclinations and research ability have equal artistic skill. It is extremely
                    difficult to train an artist. One may teach mathematics or history in the ordinary sense but
                    artistic composition, even when the material will admit, requires training. A cursory reading of any
                    of the recent histories will convince one that Professors Colby and Bassett were right when they
                    charge present day historians with carelessness in their composition. In some of the best from last
                    year's crop one can detect the jump from one reading note to another. Those of us who are
                    lately from class room lectures remember the language of other alleged texts.
            In this connection it may be pointed out that collegiate traditions and standards of scholarship are
                    produced and preserved in the graduate schools. It has been tacitly agreed for centuries that the
                    doctor's degree is the standard college teacher's requirement. Yet of the 1,579
                    teachers in the colleges of Indiana in 1925, 456 had only the bachelor's degrees, while 139
                    had no degrees at all. By combining these it is seen that forty per cent of the teaching was done by
                    teachers with no preparation for collegiate teaching; forty per cent more held the master's
                    degree, representing one year of advance study; while of the 389 doctors it is impossible to tell
                    how many held merely honorary degrees, or how many gave all or part of their time to deanships or
                    other executive work. Of the 389 doctors teaching in Indiana colleges, 200 are in Indiana
                    University. In the History Department one-half our post graduates received their undergraduate
                    training away from Indiana University.
            Thus with eighty per cent of our college teaching done by teachers with merely high school
                    qualifications we need not wonder that high school standards prevail in our colleges. In this
                    connection it should be observed that merely making the work more difficult is no criterion of
                    collegiate teaching. As nearly as can be expressed the difference lies in vision, viewpoint, or
                    scholarship. Not having received these the under-graduate can scarcely be expected to impart them.
                    History is a vastly different subject from the viewpoints of the bachelor and doctor.
            
            Let me call attention in closing to yet another consideration. The modern college text book is a
                    product largely of the recent tendency to synthesis. The latter word is misused but let it pass. I
                    turn at random to the prize history of last year, "Mackenzie had crossed 
                        Canada
                     to the coast." That I presume is a synthesis of Alexander Mackenzie's
                        Travels. The reader has no possible clue to what Mackenzie it was, where,
                    when, how or why he crossed. In fact the book is a series of unsupported judgments which the reader
                    must memorize without understanding or verification. The volume in question has 500 pages of such
                    unsupported judgments. So far as I know every college text now in use is open to the same
                    observation. The student is left not in innocent ignorance but with a vast amount of alleged but
                    defenseless information. No scientist would tolerate such a text or such teaching. Parkman
                    synthesised the documents which he used and as a result almost every paragraph has all the details
                    which an artist might need in illustrating it. The recent college texts and doctoral theses rarely,
                    if ever, have enough concrete data to afford an illustration. This arid quality is largely
                    responsible for such humiliations as the Yale Chronicles and 
                        Wells
                    ' Outlines.
            After all is said we may wait in the full expectation that time will bring a remedy. The present,
                    hectic, uncritical, period will pass as others have.
         
         
         
            Philip Sweetser and His Times
            GEORGE PENCE, 
                        Columbus
                    
            
            Read before the 
                        Bartholomew county
                     Historical Society, October 7, 1923, at Court House, Circuit Court Room, the lawyers of
                    the county being special guests at the meeting.
            
                    On October 11, 1912, it became my very pleasant duty to deliver to the 
                            Bartholomew
                         circuit court, a life size oil portrait of Philip Sweetser, which now hangs at the
                        northeast corner of the court room.
                    Two maiden daughters, the Misses Frances, who was born at 
                            Columbus
                        , and her sister, Phillipa, deemed it wise to present this heirloom, which was
                        painted in 1842, a year prior to the father's death, to the court at which he had begun
                        his career, as an honor, and to perpetuate the memory of their loved parent.
                
            The earliest record that I have found referring to 
                        Bartholomew county
                     is the time-stained and ink-faded petition of Joseph McKinney to Governor Jennings
                    representing that said McKinney is a fit person for the appointment as sheriff in the organization
                    of a new county to be erected in the neighborhood of the Driftwood, Flatrock and Blue
                        River settlement. It was not dated but showed the file marks of Governor Jennings,
                    late in 1820.
            The 5th session of the General Assembly of the state of Indiana met at Corydon on Monday, the 27th of
                    November, 1820, and it was at this term on January 8, 1821, that 
                        Bartholomew county
                     was formed, after a vigorous fight caused by the absorption of the northern three miles
                    of the county of 
                        Jackson
                    . On the following day, January 9, 1821, Governor Jennings approved the act fixing the
                    times of holding courts, when the Second Judicial circuit was formed of the counties of
                            
                  Scott, Jefferson,
                            Clark, Floyd
                and 
                        Bartholomew
                    .
            The courts were authorized to sit 12 days in 
                        Jefferson
                     and 
                        Clark
                     and the other courts of the circuit, but six days.
            At this Assembly Judge Davis Floyd was elected judge of the Second Judicial circuit.
            
            At a special election held on the first Monday in April, 1821, John Pence and Ephraim Arnold were
                    elected associate judges in and for our new county.
            The office of associate judge obtained throughout the period of the first constitution, there being
                    two elected for each county. The president judge was elected by the General Assembly. The record as
                    recorded in the first order book of 
                        Bartholomew county
                     circuit court shows the absence of the president judge at the first day of the July,
                    1821, term and we have it from tradition that there was a summer freshet of the streams at that
                    time, which was the cause of the non-appearance of Judge Floyd at the opening day of the first term
                    of the 
                        Bartholomew
                     circuit court.
            However, the record discloses that Associate Judges Pence and Arnold were present and the sheriff,
                    Joseph McKinney, whose petition had been successful by an appointment of Governor Jennings, which
                    was followed in April, 1821, by election being also present, proclaimed the continuance till the
                    next day.
            Judge Floyd is present on the following day and the 
                        Bartholomew
                     circuit court is declared duly opened for the transaction of such business as comes
                    before it.
            Judge Davis Floyd was a prominent character of the territorial days of Indiana. He had been a soldier
                    in the Revolutionary War, and had an intimate acquaintance with Aaron Burr, and became for a short
                    time one of his converts. Later Judge Floyd paid a penalty for his connection in the Burr
                    Conspiracy, by being imprisoned one-half hour.
            Later he was appointed treasurer of Indiana territory, and at one period of history had been elected
                    by the General Assembly as presiding judge of the Second Judicial circuit.
            Omitting further mention of the court's actions during the year 1821, the un-paged and
                    non-numbered record in this old order book, further shows: 
                        April term 1822, Tuesday morning April 16, 1822. Court met per-suant to the adjournment of
                            yesterday. Present the Honorable John Pence and Ephriam Arnold, Associate Judges. On motion
                            John Shott and Philip Switzer are admitted Ex Gratia to practice as attorneys and
                            counsellors at this term. Also at the July term, 1822: shows William W. Wick, Judge. On
                            motion, Calvin Fletcher and Philip Sweetzer,  Esqrs.,
                            are admitted to practice as attorneys and counsellors at law in this Court, they having
                            produced their licenses as such, and having taken the oath prescribed by law.
                    
            
            Calvin Fletcher was one of the earliest lawyers that settled at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and at that date 
                        Bartholomew
                     circuit court held jurisdiction over 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in appeals from the justice of peace courts.
            But our story concerns Philip Sweetser, who at that time was a young attorney at law, aged 27 years,
                    and who resided at the town of 
                        Madison
                    .
            The records show that he soon removed to 
                        Columbus
                     and became a part and parcel of 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , and was one of the active practitioners at law. Sweetser was a native of the state of 
                        New Hampshire
                    , born at the village of Morrow on January 26, 1795.
            He was educated at 
                        Dartmouth
                     college, at 
                  Hanover, New Hampshire
               , and graduated from that
                    institution in the class of 1819.
            Ruf us Choate, who became in time one of the most eminent lawyers of 
                        Massachusetts
                     was a classmate of Sweetser.
            Sweetser drifted southward, and became a teacher at 
                        Charlotte Hall
                     in 
                        Maryland
                    . Where and when he received his tutelage in the law, I am not now able to relate, but
                    in 1824, we find him a resident and citizen of 
                        Columbus
                     in a full-fledged practice of law. It was not long before he became the partner in
                    practice, on circuits, outside of 
                        Bartholomew
                    , with James Noble of 
                        Brookville
                    , who was then serving his second term in the 
                        United States
                     Senate from Indiana. In the Indiunapolis Gazette of the issue of
                    October 26th, 1824, I found their card, which reads: 
                        LAW NOTICE
                  
                        We will practice Law in the counties of Rush, Henry, Madison and Marion in partnership. Mr.
                            Sweetser resides at 
                                Columbus
                            , Indiana, and Mr. Noble at 
                                Brookville
                            . Strict attention shall be paid to business entrusted to our care.
                        JAMES NOBLE
                        PHILIP SWEETSER
                        Oct. 26, 1824.
                    
            
            
            
               
                        Noble
                     and Sweetser were retained by the Federal government and became the principal attorneys
                    in the prosecution of the murderers—Harper, Sawyer and the Bridges, father and
                    son—who had killed two Seneca Indians, three squaws and four children in the precincts of
                    what is now 
                        Madison county
                    , near 
                        Pendleton
                    , in the spring of 1824.
            The deed was a dastardly one and aroused the friendly Indian tribes in northeastern Indiana to a
                    revengeful pitch. Colonel John Johnson, the 
                        United States
                     Indian agent, promised the red men the fullest prosecution of the law against the
                    murderers, and employed 
                        Noble
                     and Sweetser to assist the state's prosecutor, Gregg.
            Many Indians were at the trial at 
                        Pendleton
                    , and most keenly enjoyed the result of the prosecution, which was a verdict of guilty,
                    with the penalty of death by hanging.
            The opening speech for the prosecution was made by Sweetser and it was his effort that attracted the
                    people, and particularly the members of the bar, to this Yankee lawyer; although, as he later
                    claimed the preference in criminal cases, to be more at home on the side of the
                    defense—on the side of mercy.
            It could be said of him, that he was a man of too noble and generous feelings to be a successful
                    prosecutor. Mention might be here made of the execution of the murderers at 
                        Pendleton
                     in the summer of 1825.
            Bridges, the father, and Sawyer had hung about 30 minutes, while the son, who had witnessed the scene
                    was placed in the wagon, having waited for an expected appearance of the governor of
                    Indiana—James Brown Ray.
            The governor arrived at the gallows riding a large, fancy gray horse, and finds young Bridges seated
                    on a coffin in the wagon. The governor dismounts, handing the reins to a bystander. He commands the
                    prisoner to "Stand up!" "Sir," said the governor, "do
                    you know in whose presence you stand?" He was answered in the negative, when Governor Ray
                    continued, "there are but two persons known to the law, that can save you from hanging by
                    the neck until you are dead; one is the Great God of the universe—the other is James
                    Brown Ray, governor of the state of Indiana. The latter stands before  you (handing the young man his written pardon), you are
                    pardoned."
            Nine years later, at 
                        Columbus
                    , Mr. Sweetser held to the vain hope that a dramatic governor would appear in a case of
                    extreme penalty at an elm tree one-half square west of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Railroad station on Seventh street. It was the custom of those times for lawyers to
                    advertise their line of business in the newspapers.
            In the same issue of the Indianapolis Gazette, October 26, 1824, we find: 
                        Josiah F. Polk Attorney and Councellor at Law.
                        will attend with promptitude to any business in the line of his profession He promises
                            nothing but strict attention. He will attend most of the courts in the 3rd and 5th Judicial
                            Circuits. During the recess of the courts may be found at his office in 
                                Noblesville
                            , (
                                Hamilton county
                            ) Or in 
                                Indianapolis
                             where he intends to Keep an office and spend considerable of his time.
                    
            
            Under the issue of the Gazette, November 2d, 1824, we find this card: 
                        J. T. MCKINNEY and J. F. POLK
                  
                        Will practice law in 
                                Marion county
                             and the adjoining counties, in partnership.
                        Mr. Polk may be found at Major Carter's tavern, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                    
            
            Within a very few months later the Gazette mentions the loss of Carter's
                    tavern, by fire.
            Another newspaper item, which has a local interest, appears in the Gazette, being
                    the military orders of General Sam. Downing—a resident of 
                        Columbus
                    . It reads as follows: 
                        GENERAL ORDERS
                  
                        
                     
                                Columbus
                            , Ind., Sept. 24, 1824.
                        The citizens of 
                                Madison
                             and 
                                Hamilton counties
                             are hereby notified that an election will take place on the 30th of October,
                            instant, at the house of William Dyer, in 
                                Hamilton county
                            , for the purpose of electing one Colonel commandant, one Lieutenant Colonel and
                            one Major.
                        S. DOWNING, Brig. Gen.
                    
            
            
            In the same issue, our lawyer friend Josiah F. Polk announced his name as a candidate for the office
                    of Lieutenant Colonel for the regiment composed of the counties of 
                        Hamilton
                     and 
                        Madison
                    .
            At the general election on first Monday in August, 1826, Philip Sweetser was elected member of the
                    House of Representatives from 
                        Bartholomew county
                    . The state capital was removed from Corydon to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the year before, in 1825.
            We find him present on "Monday, the 4th day of December, in the year of our Lord,
                    1826," as the House Journal reads, appearing as the member "from
                    the County of 
                        Bartholomew
                    , and all the country west of same and east of 
                        Monroe
                    ," and was sworn into office.
            He stood as a candidate for speaker of the House against General Washington Johnson of 
                        Knox
                    , Harbin H. Moore of Harrison and Isaac Howk of 
                        Clark
                    . His vote was 10 on first ballot, 11 on second and third, with the election of Isaac
                    Howk on the sixth. The speaker appointed Sweetser a member of the Judiciary committee, and later
                    made him an additional member of the committee of "Affairs of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ."
            Sweetser soon began to indicate alertness, and on the second day moved to announce the "next
                    day," as a time to elect the successor of James Noble as 
                        United States
                     Senator, whose term expires March 3, 1827. A motion to strike out the word
                    "tomorrow" and insert "Saturday," was carried.
            The Journal shows, however, that the election for U. S.; Senator did not occur
                    until Tuesday, December 12th, 1826, at 2 o'clock P. M.
            The first joint ballot showed: 
                        
                     
                        Isaac Blackford
                        24
                        votes
                     
                     
                        Jonathan Jennings
                        22
                        votes
                     
                     
                        James Noble
                        32
                        votes
                     
                  
                    
            
            The fourth and last ballot: 
                        
                     
                        Blackford
                        28
                        votes
                     
                     
                        Jennings
                        10
                        votes
                     
                     
                        James Noble
                        40
                        votes
                     
                  
                     and Noble was duly elected U. S. senator for six years after March 3, 1827.
            
            Sweetser thus saw his friend and law-partner elected to a third term as U. S. senator.
            These were the legislative times of local laws, permitted by the 1816 Constitution. Many subjects
                    were embraced as granting of divorces, change of names of persons; granting corporate powers to
                    companies, local liquor laws, and establishing state roads.
            The local matters of 
                        Bartholomew
                     were placed in the faithful hands of her representative. Many of these local bills now
                    appear as oddities as compared with those of the present constitution, and by it forbidden. As
                    specimens, might be mentioned:
            At the session of 1826, appears the offering of a joint resolution, to make it obligatory to produce
                    a proper writ to arrest a fugitive slave, and then to have a trial by jury.
            J. T. McKinney—the partner of J. F. Polk, whose advertisement we read in the Gazette, was a member of the House from 
                        Franklin county
                    . He moved to amend: 
                        That an attempt be made to emancipate all slaves in the 
                                United States
                            , provided it can be done without imposing on the people a direct tax.
                    
            
            This is the earliest mention on the Indiana records, concerning the emancipation of slaves, which did
                    happen thirty-six years afterwards.
            Sweetser voted against the resolution. Mr. Bassett introduced a resolution 
                        That by means of a Lottery, to raise sufficient capital to build two turn-pike roads leading
                            from 
                                Indianapolis
                             to the Ohio river, in such directions, as shall most
                            effectually promote the public interest.
                    
            
            At this session it was ordered that a rail fence be constructed inclosing the Governor's
                    Circle.
            This was followed out at a cost of $63.00. There was an abundance of good rail timber in
                    the "Mile Square" in 1826.
            There was also an attempt made, at this session, to remove the State Prison from 
                        Jeffersonville
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but was lost. Mr. Sweetser voted in the negative.
            Commissioners were selected by the House, at this term, 
                    
                        to assess damages to property owners west of 
                                Illinois
                             street, in case of the abandonment of the square selected for the erection of a
                            capitol caused by the change of location as proposed, of the State house being erected on
                            the Governor's Circle, instead.
                    
            
            The legislature at this time held its sessions in the old 
                        Marion county
                     court house, which was erected by the state. The first and old state house was
                    authorized to be built under an act of February 2, 1832.
            Another plan that failed was from the noted portrait painter Peale, to furnish a duplicate picture
                    which he had painted of 
                        Washington
                    , for $1,000.
            I wonder, whether or not, a Peale's 
                        Washington
                     would not be a good money-investment, now.
            On a motion defining petit larceny—"to take or drive away the personal property
                    of another, to the value of $5.00 or less" —in the matter of a second
                    offense, Mr. Sweetser offered the penalty—"that on conviction a penalty of not
                    more than twenty stripes on his bare back, if a male; and if a female, confinement in the county
                    jail, not exceeding 20 days, at the discretion of the jury"—was lost.
            By George Boon, the member from 
                        Sullivan
                    , a resolution "to raise a fund for the support of schools by a tax on
                    ‘whiskey’ "—and his refusal to accept "rum and
                    brandy," was lost and thus an excise tax for schools, with it.
            The records of the House Journal disclose that a very ugly feeling was engendered
                    at the beginning of the session between some of the House members and the governor and state
                    officers.
            McKinney, the emancipator, from 
                        Franklin county
                    , was the leader and Mr. Sweetser was one of the warriors.
            The specifications in the charges against the governor—James Brown Ray, and State
                    Treasurer Samuel Merrill, were based on their absence from their posts of duty, also some
                    extravagances on the part of the governor.
            Governor Ray, with John Tipton and Lewis Cass had in 1826 participated in a treaty with the
                    Pottowattamie tribe of Indians at the mouth of the Mississinewa. This with other missions made the
                    governor an absentee from the state capital. Other queries arose as to the beneficiaries of the
                    governor's  contingent fund, and whether or not he had
                    left behind him signed commissions, in blank, and who was responsible for their filling and
                    delivery.
            The state treasurer and secretary of state had likewise been absent from their posts.
            Governor Ray, in his answer, made himself a martyr, and amongst other defenses explained the cost of
                    the stable hire for his horse.
            Treasurer Merrill explained away 20 days of his going, attending and returning a reception of General
                    Marquis De Lafayette at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , which included a visit to his parents, at 
                        Vevay
                    , whom he had not seen in fifteen years. He was also charged with making money advances
                    to members without warrant. The treasurer took a stab at Mr. Sweetser, in his report, that
                    "Philip Sweetser had been advanced $5.00 on January 12th, 1827, at half past one
                    o'clock."
            As for a residence for the governor's horse, under an act approved January 24,
                    1828—it was provided: 
                        That lots 7 and 8 in Block 46 be and the same are hereby reserved from sale, and set apart
                            for a garden and stable lot for the use of the governor of this state.
                    
            
            These two lots, opposite and northwest of the Monument Circle, are now fully occupied by the Hotel
                    English.
            A brick house was later erected on the Governor's Circle for the use of the governor as a
                    residence. The building was never occupied as a residence by a governor, for the reason, as
                    tradition hath it—that the lot being a circle, there could be no back yard on which to
                    hang out the gubernatorial washings.
            The plan of Internal Improvements was at this time beginning to take shape, and a survey was ordered
                    for the purpose of connecting the waters of the Wabash river with
                        Lake Erie. The session closing, Mr. Sweetser returns to his home and to his
                    law practice at 
                        Columbus
                    . The next year, 1827, Benjamin Irvin—an uncle of the late Joseph I. Irwin,
                    was elected as member of the House, from 
                        Bartholomew
                     and the country west of same, and east of 
                        Monroe
                    . In 1828, however, Philip Sweetser is returned, for his second term, to the House.
            
            It might be recalled here that this "Country west of 
                        Bartholomew
                    , and east of 
                        Monroe
                    ," was converted, in 1836, into 
                        Brown county
                    , when a three mile strip off the west side of 
                        Bartholomew county
                     was taken.
            At the session of 1828 Sweetser is once more a candidate for speaker, and the result shows that he
                    received 11 votes on the 1st ballot: 
                        
                     
                        Samuel Judah of Knox
                        24
                        votes
                     
                     
                        Isaac Howk of Clark
                        12
                        votes
                     
                     
                        Dennis Pennington of Harrison
                        9
                        votes
                     
                  
                    
            
            On the 5th ballot Mr. Howk of Clark was elected.
            Sweetser was made chairman of the Judiciary Committee.
            At this session the subject of city parks at the state capital was brought before the House. John
                    James Dufour, the member from 
                        Switzerland county
                    , offered the resolution 
                        relative to the expediency of laying out and appropriating public walks and pleasure grounds,
                            hereafter to be enclosed and planted with ornamental trees, some of th unsold lands within,
                            or immediately adjoining to, said town of 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                    
            
            He anticipated a park system that was carried out 68 years later by Mr. Thomas Taggart, who as mayor
                    was enabled to do.
            The point of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was thus arbitrarily fixed, and the contest was now on to determine the terminal point
                    on the Ohio river.
            The Senate had already passed a bill ready for engrossment fixing the Ohio river
                    terminal at 
                        Madison
                    , by the way of Shelbyville, 
                        Greensburg
                     and Napoleon.
            In the House the Ohio river towns of 
                  Madison, Mauckport, Jeffersonville
               , and Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        New Albany
                     became competing points, to any of which 
                        Columbus
                     and 
                        Franklin
                     would be intermediate points on the line. The town of Bloom-ington would obtain if the
                    terminal was made either at the Great Bend of the 
                        Ohio
                     or Mouth of the Big Blue River, and 
                        Vevay
                     and Lawrenceburgh became rivals of 
                        Madison
                     for the Shelbyville and Greensburgh route.
            The conference committees could not agree and the terminal was not fixed until the following session
                    of the legislature,  when the line from 
                        Indianapolis
                     via Shelbyville, Greens-burgh and Napoleon was adopted, with 
                        Madison
                     as the terminal. Sweetser was strictly loyal for the five routes on which 
                        Columbus
                     would be an intermediate point.
            At this time Sweetser introduced the bill establishing a probate judge for each county, which law was
                    on the statute books until the Constitution of 1851.
            At the close of the 1828 session, Mr. Sweetser introduced the following resolution: 
                        Resolved that the Rev. Mr. St. John, a member of this House, be requested to close the
                            present session of the General Assembly by solemn prayer, and that the Senate be informed
                            thereof and their attendance be requested in the House of Representatives, and that seats
                            are prepared for them on the right of the speaker's chair.
                    
            
            Sweetser was forlorn over the loss of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road for 
                        Columbus
                    . It might have been possible that he thought the Senate was in need of this special
                    solemn supplication. Mr. Sweetser again returns to civil life and the dockets of the 
                        Bartholomew
                     Circuit Court show that he was an active member of the local bar.
            On April 2, 1829, he was joined in marriage to Miss Rebecca Noble, the daughter of his former law
                    partner, 
                        United States
                     Senator James Noble, of 
                        Brookville
                    .
            He brought his bride to 
                        Columbus
                    , and their home was located on 
                        Jackson
                     street at the site of the residence of the late Francis T. Hord.
            Our time forbids the mention of the numerous legal cases in which he was engaged, but there were two
                    noted cases of homicide in this county which deserve special mention, in which Mr. Sweetser was
                    employed for the defense.
            The first one was that of 
                        Ireland
                     for the killing of Brigadier General Samuel Downing—whose military order we
                    read in the issue of 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette of September 24, 1824, which occurred in the spring of 1831. Downing was
                    one of the early settlers of 
                        Columbus
                     and by reason of being elected a brigadier general in the district became very haughty
                    and overbearing—and when drinking very quarrelsome. 
                        Ireland
                     was a teamster in the packing house of Gwinn & Company, and Downing, who had
                    been drinking, chided 
                        Ireland
                     for whipping  one of the horses in his team, which
                    he was driving. The general became enraged and procuring a rifle followed 
                        Ireland
                    , declaring that he would kill him, when at the alley north of the court house on Third
                    street they met, when 
                        Ireland
                     shot and killed Downing. At an early trial it was easily proven by Sweetser that 
                        Ireland
                     shot in self-defense.
            The second homicide was the killing of John Ray by John Jones but a few months after the
                    Ireland-Downing affair, on June 11, 1831. Jones and Ray were neighbors up in Haw Creek township, and
                    both had come to 
                        Columbus
                     together on that day. Both of them had been drinking together, and upon leaving town
                    for their homes a quarrel commenced over the candidacy of Jesse Ruddick. Their route homewards was
                    on the old Shelbyville state road which ran northeastwardly from the site of the city cemetery and
                    when they had reached a point on the road, where Nineteenth street now crosses Home avenue, Ray
                    attempted to pull Jones from his horse. Jones, who had a knife, made a thrust at Ray and stuck his
                    own horse from which the animal died in a short time. A second thrust, at random, reached
                    Ray's heart.
            Jones escaped to 
                        Madison county
                    , where he was captured by a 
                        Bartholomew
                     posse and returned to 
                        Columbus
                     in a few weeks, and placed in jail. He employed Philip Sweetser to defend him. Much
                    feeling in the Haw Creek neighborhood was engendered, and in all, there were three trials had of
                    Jones—with two appeals to the Supreme Court.
            William Herod was the regular prosecuting attorney. Amos Lane, a famous lawyer and orator, of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , was employed by Ray's friends to assist in the prosecution, and I have heard
                    that it was the irresistible speech of Lane to the jury that brought a verdict of guilty and penalty
                    of death.
            Another murderer, Cader Herring, had been found guilty of killing one Comer, and he with John Jones
                    were hanged Prom an elm tree which stood on the lot at southeast corner of Seventh and 
                        Jackson
                    . This execution occurred on June 11, 1833, the second anniversary of the killing of
                    Ray.
            Sweetser's efforts to save Jones were nearly superhuman, and the tradition of his connection
                    with the case and of the double execution of Jones and Herring lasted through a generation.
            
            One of the earliest railroads that was proposed for 
                        Columbus
                     was chartered on February 3, 1832, at the same time that another was proposed from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The first referred to, was known as the "
                  New Albany, Salem, Indianapolis
                and 
                        Wabash
                     Railroad."
            Prominent citizens of the counties of 
                  Floyd, Washington, Jackson
                and 
                        Marion
                    , with Philip Sweetser of 
                        Bartholomew
                     composed its directors.
            In time the road was built from 
                        New Albany
                     to 
                        Salem
                    , and it was proposed to extend from there to 
                        Columbus
                    . Later the road was diverted northwesterly from 
                        Salem
                     and built through 
                        Bedford
                     and 
                        Bloomington
                     to 
                        Michigan
                     City, and is now known as the "Monon Route." However, the
                    Jefferson-ville Railroad reached our town in the year 1852 in lieu of the other.
            In 1837 Philip Sweetser, with his family, moved from 
                        Columbus
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , his home residence being on 
                        Pennsylvania
                     street opposite the New Denison hotel.
            Through his career in the state's legislature and his extensive practice on the circuit he
                    was soon at home at the state's capital.
            In 1839 he was elected as representative in the lower house from 
                        Marion county
                    , which was the third time that he was thus honored.
            He was appointed chairman on corporations, and later in the session, placed on the judiciary
                    committee.
            The year 1839–40 brought the financial affairs of the state to a climax, caused by the
                    mammoth scheme of Internal Improvements.
            Bonds of the state for $10,064,000 had been issued and sold. A half dozen improvements had
                    been started and not one of them completed. Bills on contracts unpaid amounted to
                    $1,600,000. Eonds sold and not paid for by the 
                        Madison
                     Rail-roal amounted at that date to $455,000. The Morris Canal and Banking
                    Company owed $455,000 balance for bonds sold by that concern, amounting, in all, to
                    $13,000,000.
            There was also a suspended debt of $1,703,010.04, unavailable and an open unpaid account
                    of $620,453.09 due the state bank and its branches. The conditions were awful and affairs
                    looked as blue as the figures were big. State bonds were being 
                    hypothecated and traded for interest and repudiation, in 1840, was rife, when the Journals show that a resolution was offered, as follows: 
                        
                     Resolved, the legal liability of the state of Indiana for the payment of
                            her suspended debt, or liability created by the sale or hypothetication of state bonds, on
                            which nothing has been received, or can be recovered by the state, and other
                            reasons—and what course it would be proper for the state to pursue to release her
                            citizens from the payment of said bonds.
                    
            
            The resolution was referred to the judiciary committee, and over the signature of Philip Sweetser,
                    chairman, they make a lengthy report and opinion, giving a thorough account of the state's
                    bond issues, closing with these words: 
                        The committee can not recommend any course for the state to pursue, based upon the hypothesis
                            contained in the resolution, but will take the responsibility of recommending a course to be
                            pursued based upon the hypothesis contained in this report.
                        The state is in great pecuniary embarrassment, but not ruined. Our lands are fertile, our
                            inhabitants industrious and frugal.
                        Our resources are great, but as yet, in a small degree developed. We ought with united effort
                            to come to the rescue. The honor of the state must be sustained at all sacrifices, and her
                            plighted faith remain inviolate. We ought to show ourselves the strong man, struggling with
                            adversity, but with continued energy surmounting every obstacle. With these sentiments
                            animating every bosom, no patriot need despair of the Republic.
                    
            
            This was the last time that he stood for office, returning strictly to the practice of his
                    profession.
            He was at this time a vestry man in Christ church.
            On April 3, 1843, Philip Sweetser died at the age of 48 years, and his remains lie in Crown
                        Hill Cemetery at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Just within the precincts of the original plat of the City Cemetery, on 16th street, near its
                    southwest corner stand two stone markers, quarried from the hills west of 
                        Columbus
                    , On the larger stone is engraved in old-fashioned Italic face: 
                        IN Memory of Mrs. Mary Noble wife of the late Hon. James Noble died Sept. 29,
                            1836 Aged 54 years.
                    
            
            
            The smaller stone on the south side reads: 
                        Nancy Sweetser, daughter of Philip Sweetser died April 26, 1836 Aged 4
                        years.
                    
            
            The Nobles, James and Noah, were Virginians, from near Fredericksburg. Emigrating, with the father
                    Thomas T. Noble into 
                        Kentucky
                     late in the eighteenth century. At the age of 17 James married Mary Lindsay, whose
                    grave in our city cemetery I have just made mention.
            The two brothers, James and Noah, drifted from 
                        Newport
                    , where they had taken up the law, into Indiana, settling at 
                        Brookville
                    . James soon became known as an eloquent advocate.
            He was elected in 1816 as one of the delegates to the Territorial Convention at Corydon. At the
                    August election of 1816, he was elected a member of the state legislature which met at Corydon on
                    November 4, 1816.
            Three days after its organization, on November 8, James Noble and Waller Taylor, were elected in
                    joint session 
                        United States
                     Senators—members of the highest legislative body in the world.
            He was reelected, six years later to his second term in the Senate and have mentioned the motion of
                    Philip Sweetser in the 1826–27 session to take up the election of "
                        United States
                     Senator as successor of James Noble," and of the successful election of the
                    father-in-law to his third term.
            He continued in the Senate until February 26, 1831, when he died at his boarding house in 
                        Washington
                    .
            The House and Senate were adjourned until 3 P. M. to attend his funeral, February 28, 1831, at
                    Eastern Branch burial ground.
            It was five and one-half years after that Mrs. Noble, his relict, was buried at 
                        Columbus
                     in the grave lot of Philip Sweetser, her son-in-law.
            Noah Noble, the brother of Senator Noble, was elected governor of Indiana in 1831. He died in 
                        Indianapolis
                     February 8, 1844.
         
         
         
            Introduction and Progress of Methodism in Southeastern Indiana
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            (Concluded)
            No. XXXI
            1829–30.—
                        Madison
                     district, Allen Wiley; 
                        Madison
                     station, James L. Thompson; 
                        Madison
                     circuit, Michael S. Taylor and George Randal; 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Nehemiah B. Griffith and Richard S. Robinson; White Water, James Havens, sup. and
                    Lorenzo D. Smith; 
                        Wayne
                    , Robert Burns and Wesley Wood; 
                        Connersville
                    , Amos Sparks; Rushville, Joseph Tarkington and William Evans; 
                        Fall Creek
                    , Asa Beck; 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Thomas S. Hitt; 
                        Franklin
                    , Eichard Hargrave; Vernon, John Kerns; 
                        Charlestown
                     district, John Strange; 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, John W. M'Reynolds and James Scott; Corydon, Aaron Wood and William
                    Shanks, sup.; 
                        Salem
                    , Stith M. Otwell and John Van Cleve; PaoIi, Daniel Anderson and Samuel Brenton.
            Wiley had a pleasant year on the 
                        Madison
                     district, as there was prosperity on nearly every charge.
            Thompson, the preacher in the 
                        Madison
                     station, was well received except for the weight of his family, which was heavy to that
                    charge in that day. There was some prosperity and success, the increase being eighteen. There is
                    nothing of much interest to record this year in connection with this charge, except a very popular
                    and good meeting held by the side of the meeting-house under a plank cover. This meeting was
                    attended by several brethren not of the district. George C. Light, then of the 
                        Kentucky
                     conference, was there and preached acceptably; but being quite unwell, he was not able
                    to equal himself under other circumstances. Strange was there after a considerable absence from his
                    old friends among whom he had lived and labored four years. He enjoyed the meeting  and the society of his friends very much. Ruter was there in feeble
                    health, but was able to preach once and enjoy the meeting and society of his former flock. On
                    Monday, we had a love-feast in the church, which has seldom been exceeded in deep and powerful
                    religious excitement. Doubtless the glorified spirit of Strange remembers the enjoyment which it had
                    in the body that morning; for it was only something less than the enjoyment of disembodied spirits.
                    Some of the brethren named never met on earth again.
            Michael S. Taylor, the preacher in charge of 
                        Madison
                     circuit, was a most amiable man and a good preacher of medium talents. He commenced
                    traveling in 
                        Kentucky
                     in the fall of 1825, where he traveled three years and was transferred to the Indiana
                    conference and appointed to 
                        Salem
                     circuit with John Hogan. He traveled four years in Indiana and was then transferred
                    from the Indiana to the 
                        Illinois
                     conference and placed on the 
                        Wabash
                     district, where he traveled nearly two years and died, and left the world in peace. He
                    was one of the delegates of his conference in the general conference of 1836. His talents had more
                    of usefulness in them than of show; and such was the kindness of his spirit, that he was beloved by
                    all who knew him; and such was his industry that he had great success in almost all the charges
                    where he traveled. The reader will find an account of him in the second volume of the Minutes, page 661. That account gives him one year more as a traveling preacher than it
                    should, unless he was employed by a presiding elder before his name appears in the Minutes. His colleague had located two years before, and had some difficulties, and was a
                    most unhappy man, who concluded he was out of his place in local life. The quarterly conference
                    removed a suspension under which he had been placed, and recommended him for readmission in the
                    traveling connection, and he was received, and did well on the circuit that year, where the people
                    were kind to him; for they gave him a good horse to use instead of the poor thing with which he went
                    to the circuit. That horse died, and they gave another. These brethren had prosperity; for there was
                    an increase of eighty-four members. There was a good camp meeting at the last quarterly meeting on
                    the ground mentioned last year. There  was also an extra camp
                    meeting between Allensville and Patriot, at a place called the Bark Works (so called because large
                    quantities of oak bark had once been prepared there for exportation to Europe), which was a glorious
                    meeting. After this year, the circuit will be known as 
                        Vevay
                     circuit; for after 
                        Madison
                     was made a station, the circuit had no kind of connection with it and it was thought
                    best to call it after a post town within its bounds. So far as I had any influence with the bishops
                    presiding, I procured the change of the names of all the circuits named after sections of country,
                    and had them called after post towns within their bounds.
            Griffith and Robinson, who were on the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit have both been mentioned before. Robinson, who had been employed most of the
                    preceding year, had now been admitted on trial by the conference. These brethren were attentive to
                    the work only when the affliction of Griffith's family made it necessary, in his judgment,
                    to stay at home. The reappointment of this brother had an unfortunate effect in one part of the
                    circuit. The society on North Tanner's creek became prejudiced against him, because he had
                    been favorable to a local preacher against whom they had strong prejudice; and perhaps not without
                    cause. The consequence was, many of the old and substantial members withdrew and joined the
                    Protestant Methodists, and took with them a good stone church, which by neglect had not been deeded
                    to our church and the right of soil was in one of the seceding brethren. I have no doubt that if we
                    had gone to law we could have held the church, or have recovered the value of it; but we loved
                    peace, and never Contended about it. Some of these friends are gone to rest, and some are yet
                    living; and I am told are pious and doing well. I loved them dearly and I love them still but I
                    thought then, and think yet, there was not sufficient cause for the course which they pursued; for
                    if Griffith even had erred, it was an error in judgment, and not in heart. The success this year was
                    not equal to the success of the former year, but there was a good increase of one hundred and ten.
                    This year, also, the last quarterly meeting was a good camp meeting, where we had Charles M.
                    Holliday and Moses Clam-pet from 
                        Kentucky
                    , and Robert O. Spencer from 
                        Ohio
                     to help us.
            
            When James Havens was appointed to the White Water circuit, he was in feeble health, and on the
                    supernumerary list. His health continued to decline, and he discharged so much blood in spitting,
                    that it was thought he would never recover; and he became much depressed in his feelings, and had
                    finally to give up the regular work, and only serve the circuit occasionally. Elijah Barwick, a
                    local preacher living in 
                        Brookville
                    , supplied Havens' lack of service a part of the time. Smith, the junior
                    preacher, was a very timid but rather a talented young man. Such was his timidity and fear of having
                    to preach before his seniors, that he did not attend the second quarterly meeting. This was his
                    first year as a probationer. Through Haven's bad health, and Smith's timidity and
                    want of resolution, the appointments were not well attended, and the work rather languished, and the
                    circuit declined in its membership sixteen. The circuit, however, remained as healthy and stable as
                    could be expected under the circumstances. The last quarterly meeting was a good camp meeting about
                    five miles from 
                        Brookville
                    , on the ground where we are to have a camp meeting this year, including the fifth
                    Saturday and Sunday of August. Here there have been camp meetings (many of them glorious ones) for
                    seventeen years almost every year. This year our lease expires, and I suppose the holy place, where
                    hundreds have been converted, will become common ground.
            Robert Burns was now in his second year on the 
                        Wayne
                     circuit, and had for his colleague Wesley Wood, who had been received on trial by the 
                        Ohio
                     conference, and the bishop transferred him to us, and at our conference he was
                    appointed to this circuit. Wesley was the brother of Aaron and Enoch G. Wood, and well known in
                    Indiana. Wesley was a lovely youth, of a good and improvable mind. He had not a good voice for
                    preaching; but it was improving. He was two years in the work, at the end of which he sickened, and
                    lingered awhile, and died. He received an appointment for a third year, but he was never able to go
                    to it. Had he lived he would have made a man of some eminence; for he was very pious and studious.
                    He had not much energy in the beginning of his ministry, but he was on the increase in that
                    important qualification,  to insure success in the ministry. How
                    inscrutable are the ways of divine 
                        Providence
                    ! Here is a young man of much promise, who falls by death just as he begins to give
                    clear evidence of usefulness. O, Wesley, I did love thee, and hope to meet thee in a world of life
                    and of joy. These brethren passed well on the circuit, and they had some success; but the increase
                    was so small, being only twenty-six. The last quarterly meeting was a good camp meeting near
                        Mt. Zion meetinghouse, on Green's Fork of White Water, near the
                    north line of 
                        Wayne county
                    .
            Amos Sparks was received the second time on trial by the 
                        Ohio
                     conference, and was transferred to the 
                        Illinois
                     conference, and appointed to the charge of 
                        Connersville
                     circuit. Sparks was a very illiterate man, but he had a good degree of native talent,
                    and much zeal, and was, to some extent, popular and useful, and had success in his ministry. If he
                    had had a good education, and entered the traveling ranks when young, he would have made a powerful
                    man. He traveled until the fall of 1835, when the conference located him; and he has been a much
                    more unhappy man, than if he had never traveled. 0, my brethren, never encourage a man who is too
                    old to learn watchmaking or any other business to become a traveling preacher; for such can never
                    succeed in the whole work of a traveling minister. I employed Hunter, mentioned last year in
                    connection with Burns, to travel with Sparks. He was a very moderate preacher at that day as it
                    regards intellectual preaching, but he was a good man, who meant well, and could declaim to some
                    advantage. At the close of the year he was received on trial and continued to travel until 1838,
                    when he died. He traveled somewhat extensively in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , and was several times two years on the same circuit, which is proof that the people
                    were pleased with him. The reader will find a more full account of him in the Minutes, printed at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , for the year 1839, page 104. These brethren had good times of refreshing, and the
                    circuit increased eighty-four. The last quarterly meeting was a good camp meeting, held near John
                    Cones', in the east end of the present Milroy circuit. O, what times of glory used to be on
                    that ground.
            
            Joseph Tarkington, the preacher in charge of Rushville circuit, commenced traveling in the summer of
                    1825. His first circuit was Patoka where the reader will remember James L. Thompson sat on the
                    fallen tree and held his horse in the rainy night, with the wolves howling around him. The circuit
                    then included more than four counties in the forks of the Ghio and the 
                        Wabash
                    . The present 
                        Evansville
                     district, full as it is of charges, had but little more territory than this circuit
                    then covered. Look here, boys, and see a young man who received sixty-two and a half cents at the
                    first quarterly meeting, and only fourteen dollars in the whole year, partly money and partly
                    clothing, and who had to stop in the woods among the brush to mend his own clothes. His senior
                    preacher was the excellent Garner, who had to go more than one hundred miles from his family to the
                    nearest part of the circuit, and then received twenty-eight dollars for the support of himself, and
                    wife, and several children. Tarkington is still in the work, and with medium preaching talents has
                    been able to sustain himself well in all the charges where he has labored, whether circuits, or
                    stations, or district. The secret of his great acceptability and usefulness is to be found in his
                    faithful pastoral work, in which he greatly delights; and he must have a very sluggish and lukewarm
                    helper, if he does not make him a good pastor. His colleague this year on Rushville was William
                    Evans, mentioned before in connection with 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Connersville
                     circuits. These brethren were young and vigorous, and traveled this heavy, muddy
                    circuit with industry and the Head of the Church gave them favor in the eyes of the people, and
                    success in their work; and the circuit increased one hundred and fourteen. The last quarterly
                    meeting was an excellent camp meeting, at which many souls were converted and reclaimed.
            Asa Beck had a year of prosperity on 
                        Fall Creek
                     circuit, where there was an increase of one hundred and twenty in the membership. The
                    last quarterly meeting was a camp meeting about four miles below 
                        Pendleton
                    , on the east side of the creek, which was attended with considerable success. James
                    Havens and old brother Morrow were at this meeting and preached successfully. The night after this
                    meeting closed, the writer was taken sick, and had weeks of suffering.
            
            I have before mentioned the great ingathering which Armstrong had in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Many of these new members were unconverted at the end of the year, and needed just
                    such a kind pastor as they found in Thomas S. Hitt. This brother was in feeble health, and not able
                    to make such an impression on the public mind as Armstrong had done before him, but the church was
                    decidedly in a healthy state, and much good was done. According to the Minutes
                    there was apparently a decrease of one hundred and thirty-three, but this was only in appearance;
                    for all the country appointments, south of the town, were detached the preceding fall, and formed a
                    part of 
                        Franklin
                     circuit. What the real decrease or increase in the station was cannot now be known. The
                    station, at the close of this year, numbered only one hundred and seventy. Hereafter we shall be
                    able to see the rise or decline of the town.
            At the conference in the fall of 1839, there was a new circuit formed out of the appointments which
                    had been in connection with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     station, and the north and west part of 
                        Columbus
                     circuit. This circuit extended from near 
                        Indianapolis
                     southwest to Martinsville, the county town of 
                        Morgan county
                    , thence east nearly to Edinburg, thence north by the way of 
                        Franklin
                    , the county town of 
                        Johnson county
                     to the place of beginning, embracing all the settled parts in the center of the
                    triangle. Much of the country was new and muddy. Although Martinsville was a county town, and was
                    then the largest town, and had the largest society, yet as 
                        Franklin
                     bore the name of the venerable American sage, 
                        Franklin
                    , the circuit was named after that town.
            Richard Hargrave, the preacher, had been on the superannuated list and had been nearly dead with the
                    dyspepsy, and was not yet entirely well. The appointing power fully believed that sending him to
                    that new wooden country, where there would be no call for strong, labored metaphysical sermons,
                    would greatly tend to the restoration of his health and the good of the Church; hence, he was
                    appointed to the 
                        Franklin
                     circuit, with good will to him, and the cause of religion. The expectations of his
                    friends were not disappointed; for his health was much improved and he is yet able to do effective
                    service in the ministry. 0, ye dyspeptics, instead of wishing city stations, pray the
                    superintendents to send you to the frontiers,  even if it be to
                    Brown mission, if you wish to get clear of disease, and the blues at the same time. We are greatly
                    in want of houses to accomodate our people in this new work. In the month of March, at the second
                    quarterly meeting, the friends fixed a sheet or blanket on poles to cover my naked head, while the
                    people sat round about on timbers hauled in the street of Martinsville for the purpose of building a
                    house. They, of course, had on their coverings for their heads, as there was no shade for them.
                    Behold the preacher and his hearers in the open street in the month of March, but the weather was
                    pleasant for the time of the year. The last quarterly meeting was a camp meeting in a new
                    settlement, near the south part of the circuit. The people were few and poor, but they had prepared
                    their camp ground in the best style, and it was a grief to me that I could not serve them; for
                    sickness put it out of my power to labor any at the meeting. I was not able to hear any of the
                    preaching of the Sabbath, when Hargrave preached one of his most able sermons, after telling his
                    congregation that it had cost him fourteen month's study. He styled it the divinity of the
                    Christian religion. All the official service which the elder could render was to open the quarterly
                    conference, and call a brother to the chair, and then lie in bed, scorched with fever, and hear
                    whether things were done right. Since that time he has laid flat on his back on the floor with the
                    chill of the ague, and held quarterly conference. O, how much he suffered this year in traveling,
                    and holding meetings, and taking medicine, and shaking with chills, and scorching with fevers; but 
                        Providence
                     sustained him.
            As I do not know how many members were taken from 
                        Indianapolis
                     station, and 
                        Columbus
                     circuit, I do not know what was the increase on 
                        Franklin
                     circuit this year. In the fall, the number was five hundred and thirty-nine, so that
                    this was a good, full, one preacher circuit.
            This year, Vernon circuit was made a part of 
                        Madison
                    , and 
                        Columbus
                     a part of Chaslestown district, so that I now pass over 
                        Columbus
                     circuit and notice it when I come to Charles-town district, so far as I notice that
                    district in these sketches. John Kerns, who was noticed last year as the amiable boy  with Havens on Rushville, was now the preacher on Vernon circuit. John
                    was well received by the people, and he had some prosperity on the circuit; for there was in
                    increase of twenty-six. This seems to be a small increase, but those who know the amount of
                    ignorance, prejudice, bigotry, and downright vile slander and persecution Methodism had to contend
                    with in this country, will say this was doing well. "Tell it not in Gath, and publish it
                    not in the streets of Aske-lon," how Methodism was treated by professors of religion, lest
                    infidels and devils rejoice. But, thank God, we see a better day, although our cause is too feeble
                    there yet. The last quarterly meeting was a camp meeting, held near the road from 
                        Madison
                     to Vernon, about ten or eleven miles from the former place. What kind of a meeting it
                    was, I cannot say with any certainty; for all that I was able to do was to hold quarterly
                    conferences and administer the sacrament. I think the meeting was a good one. At this meeting, John
                    C. Smith was licensed to preach and recommended to conference. The apparent increase on the 
                        Madison
                     district this year was nine hundred and sixty-two; but as a part of 
                        Columbus
                     circuit was embraced in 
                        Franklin
                     circuit, the increase was not really so much.
            The popular Strange remained on the 
                        Charlestown
                     district, but his health was still on the decline, and he labored in much pain; but
                    there was not much abatement in his labors.
            John W. M'Reynolds and James Scott were both returned to 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, which was some evidence that the people were pleased with them; for the
                    appointing power does not send preachers to circuits where it is known that there are strong
                    objections to them. Although there was a decrease the past year of one hundred and ninety-six, and
                    this year of sixty-three, the people did not blame the preacher with it, as is too often the case
                    when the church seems to wane.
            This or the preceding year, I know not which, perhaps both, witnessed in this circuit the painful and
                    injurious controversy on church government, which then agitated the Methodist Episcopal church. The
                    consequence was a great loss of piety to all concerned, especially to those who finally seceded. How
                    many did so, I know not; but there were among  them men of great
                    moral worth, who were doubtless honest, but mistaken men. Among them was Cornelius Riddle, the
                    popular local preacher who traveled the 
                        Madison
                     circuit the year before. This step greatly lessened his popularity and usefulness. How
                    he has enjoyed himself since, I do not know; for although I have visited him since, and lodged at
                    his house, neither of us, in the slightest degree, alluded to the unfortunate secession. There were
                    others of my warm personal friends among the seceders, whom I sincerely love and pity; for they must
                    see, and if they do not, others do, that radicalism, as the schism is commonly called, is a failure
                    in Clark's Grant.
            I have more than once said that if this circuit had been divided when it was fourteen hundred and
                    forty-one in number, it would not have shrunk as it did; but we were slow to learn the true method
                    of the Church's influence and usefulness, by so multiplying charges as to bring more
                    persons into active operation in the cause of religion. Formerly there was great reluctance to
                    divide circuits for four reasons:
            1st. For fear the preachers would not have enough to do.
            2nd. For fear we could not find sufficiency of preachers for the charges.
            3rd. For fear the preachers could not get a competent support.
            4th Because the official members, who had long been associated in the same quarterly conference, were
                    unwilling to part. If all our work were to be done on horseback, or in the act of preaching and
                    meeting class, as many seem to suppose, there might have been some ground for the first reason. This
                    mistaken view had well nigh ruined most of us; and I fear the mass of the old and middle-aged
                    preachers, and some of the young ones, too, will have to die off, before we have a good body of
                    pastors and Sunday school men, and men who will care for and attend to all the benevolent and
                    literary interest of the Church.
            The second reason is a kind of infidel one, and seems to say that God has not the "residue
                    of the spirit" and could not supply the church with a sufficient number of competent men to
                    do the work which he has ordained, and commanded to be done.
            
            The third reason has no foundation in fact. Virgil says in his Bucolics:
                    
                        Praise a large farm, but till a small one. A Roman gentleman had two daughters and a
                            vineyard. On the marriage of one of his daughters, he gave her one-third of his vineyard and
                            bestowed the same amount of culture on the remaining two thirds as he had done on the whole;
                            and the consequence was, there was no diminution of the vintage. On the marriage of his
                            second daughter, he gave her another third, and then bestowed the same culture on the
                            remaining third, and his vintage was equally abundant.
                    
            
            What man of observation is not convinced that every acre of tillable land in the western country
                    could be made to double or triple its present yield by proper management. These remarks will apply
                    to moral soil as well as to that which is natural. Away with theories and plausible reasons, and let
                    facts speak for themselves. Formerly men starved on large circuits and districts when they had no
                    means of their own for support, now they are supported on small ones if they do their whole duty;
                    and if they do this, they will find plenty of work to keep them busy. The best support which I ever
                    received in my life on a district, was last year and the year before, when the district was small,
                    and I was able to mingle with the people at other times beside the quarterly meetings, and I worked
                    as hard as when my charge was much larger. The fourth reason is so childish that it should not weigh
                    anything. I have a head and heart to prize and feel friendship, but it must be a sickly
                    sentimentalism which will not let friends part when duty and usefulness require them to do so. If
                    the church ever does her duty, no man must have so much work to do that he will become discouraged,
                    and do less than he otherwise would.
            My once pleasant colleague, Aaron Wood, was in charge of Corydon circuit, and had for his helper
                    William Shanks, supernumerary. How well the preachers were received and how well they attended to
                    their work I have no means of knowing, only as honest Methodist preachers I suppose they did their
                    duty. This was not a prosperous year to the circuit; for there was a decrease of eighty, which was
                    within nine of the increase of last year. This is the last year that the Corydon  circuit includes the flourishing town of 
                        New Albany
                    ; for at the conference in the fall of 1830, it was made a station. Otwell and Van Cleve
                    have both been mentioned at some length, so that I need say nothing here. They were good men and
                    good preachers, but 
                        Salem
                     circuit appears not to have prospered under their ministry; for there was a decrease of
                    forty-three in its membership. Ah, these unfortunate fluctuations!
            Daniel Anderson was returned to the charge of Paoli circuit, and had for his colleague, Samuel
                    Brenton, the exhorter mentioned last year as sent from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to travel a part of the year on 
                        Madison
                     circuit. Brenton was now received on trial, and continued to travel with acceptance
                    until the fall of 1833, when he located, and so remained eight years, until the fall of 1841, when
                    he again entered the work, and is now doing well as a member of the North Indiana conference. While
                    local he studied and practiced law in 
                        Hendricks
                     and neighboring counties. Twice or thrice he represented the county named in the lower
                    house of the state legislature. His prospects for wealth and fame were very fair; but what are
                    wealth and fame to a minister of the Gospel, who feels he is called of God to be instrumental in
                    saving souls, and spreading the Redeemer's kingdom in the world? The worldly wise would
                    have said, "Brenton, continue your law practice, and make money;" but God and good
                    men said, "Desist, and enter the vineyard of the Lord;" and he obeyed.
            
               
                        Columbus
                     circuit was now in the Charleston district, with two capable preachers on it, Elsbury
                    and Johnson. Elsbury was received on trial by the 
                        Illinois
                     conference in the fall of 1829, and continued to travel until the fall of 1834, when he
                    located. He became a successful physician, and lived several years in
                    Pendleton, on 
                        Fall Creek
                    . He moved somewhere west, but I now know nothing about him. He was a good man and a
                    good preacher, but there was a precipitancy of words and actions in him which often injured his
                    usefulness. This year he visited some of his people when he first came on the circuit as a stranger
                    somewhat in disguise, in order that he might find out their religious habits at home. When they
                    asked his name, he would say Isaac N., which was true as far as it  went, but leaving out the latter part. When they found they had been
                    practiced upon and trifled with by their preacher, they were hurt and did not receive him kindly.
                    This conduct, with some unguarded expressions, which were misrepresented, rendered him nearly
                    useless on the circuit. In these numbers, I have had occasion to mention the virtues and faults of
                    many good men, not with a view to flatter or injure them, but as an incitement and warning to
                    others. When Paul writes to the Galatians, he does not spare the faults of Peter. Surely the faults
                    of others should be lasting admonitions to us, that we may shun them. This brother deeply lamented
                    the indiscretions of this year.
            Johnson I have before mentioned as a very tame preacher; and owing to the state of things on the
                    circuit this year, I presume he was more than ordinarily tame, so that between the precipitancy and
                    unguardedness of the one, and the languor of the other, the people were not well suited, and they
                    let their preachers well nigh starve.
            There is apparently a decrease of four hundred and twelve on the circuit this year, but there was not
                    that amount of decrease in reality; for, as I have before said, when 
                        Franklin
                     circuit was formed a part of 
                        Columbus
                     was included in it. I suppose, however, that there was a large decrease on this
                    circuit.
            This was not a prosperous year to that part of Charles-town district which falls within my proposed
                    bounds. All the five circuits noticed decreased in their membership, and some of them largely. The
                    apparent decrease in all was six hundred and fifty-two. The decrease, however, was less to the
                    amount of members which were taken from 
                        Columbus
                     and embraced in 
                        Franklin
                     circuit, and that amount we cannot ascertain. Taking the whole field which I have
                    traveled over in both districts, there was an increase of only three hundred and ten. A sad view,
                    considering how many good and sincere men were engaged in the work day and night. Some had to be
                    expelled, because of disorderly walk, and some withdrew to form a new church of doubtful utility.
                    Others withdrew to join other denominations, and others moved to new and distant parts of the land.
                    A goodly number left earth  for heaven, so that they were not
                    really lost to us, but experienced what every good minister labors for, the transmission of souls
                    from a world of sin and sorrow to a heaven of joy and rest, with God and angels.
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , July 3, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, Sept. 25, 1846.
            No. XXXII
            1830–31.—This year, a part of the 
                        Madison
                     and a part of the 
                        Charlestown
                     districts were formed into a new district, called 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; and that part of the work which I notice, was supplied in the following manner:
            
               
                        Madison
                     district, Allen Wiley; 
                        Madison
                     station, Benjamin C. Stevenson; 
                        Vevay
                     circuit, Joseph Tarkington and George Randall; Lawreneeburg, John W.
                    M'Reynolds and Alfred W. Arrington; White Water, Michael S. Taylor, and Isaac Kimball; 
                        Wayne
                    , Asa Beek and Richard S. Robinson; 
                        Connersville
                    , Ancil Beach and Wesley Wood; Rushville, Amos Sparks and John C. Smith; Vernon, John
                    Kerns; 
                        Fort Wayne
                     mission, Nehemiah B. Griffith; 
                        Indianapolis
                     district, James Armstrong; 
                        Indianapolis
                     station, Calvin W. Ruter; Corydon circuit, William Moore and Henry S. Talbott; Paoli,
                    John T. Johnson and William S. Crissey; 
                        Columbus
                    , to be supplied.
            This was a prosperous year on the 
                        Madison
                     district; but the office of presiding elder began to be irksome to the presiding elder,
                    and has so continued ever since; and he sustains it from a sense of duty, and not as a matter of
                    choice.
            The 
                        Madison
                     station being somewhat feeble in membership and wishing to build a new and large
                    church, greatly desired to have a single man; and the bishop complied with the wish of the people,
                    and sent them Benjamin C. Stevenson, who had been three years in the work; but he and his charge
                    were entire strangers. His religious education was Presbyterian; but when he was awakened and
                    converted, he joined the Methodist Episcopal church. Whether he became religious  in 
                        Kentucky
                     or at 
                  Greencastle, Ia.
               , from whence he started to travel, I do not know. His
                    first circuit was 
                        Carlisle
                    , on the 
                        Wabash
                    , between 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    . His third field was Galena mission, he being the first missionary sent to that then
                    distant and wild region. His fourth year was 
                        Madison
                    , where he was acceptable and useful. At the ensuing conference, he was appointed to 
                        Indianapolis
                     station, and he returned to 
                        Madison
                    , where he had married the widow Goode near the close of the year, to prepare for a
                    removal to the charge to which he had been appointed; but a deep cold, which he had taken before
                    conference, ended in a settled fever, which terminated his life just eight weeks from the time of
                    his marriage. Never shall I forget my surprise and grief, when John H. Taylor and Mordeacai Brooks
                    came to my house, in the night, to request me to preach his funeral sermon the next day; which I did
                    in the Presbyterian church, which was larger than ours. Week-day as it was, there never had been so
                    large a procession before in 
                        Madison
                    . I have before said I had become weary of the presiding elder's office; and I
                    had fixed on this brother, in my mind, as a good successor, when he should become a little older in
                    the ministry. Stevenson was every way a lovely and dignified man, and above mediocrity for one of
                    his age in the work. We never had lost a young man, my own son excepted, that caused me so much
                    grief, as Benjamin C. Stevenson. One so talented, so dignified, so useful, to be suddenly cut down,
                    seemed so strange that my poor heart could hardly be reconciled to this dispensation of divine 
                        Providence
                    . Had he lived and been faithful, he would have been a man of much eminence; but God is
                    wise and good, and knew what was best for him, and we should submit with resignation, which I think
                    I do; but my heart is mournfu! and sad, while I write, though he. died nearly fifteen years ago.
                    This was a good year for the station, but the increase was only nineteen. The church, however, was
                    greatly improved, and the arrangement for building the new church much advanced. I am not sure, but
                    I think the building was inclosed, but not ready for occupancy till the next summer. The former 
                        Madison
                     circuit was now called 
                        Vevay
                    , on which Tarkington and Randall were well received, and labored  with acceptability and success until spring, when Randall brought
                    charges against one of the members in the circuit, who was acquitted; and this acquittal so
                    displeased Randall, that he left the work and went to farming, which he has followed ever since. I
                    hope he will yet see the folly of his strong prejudices and join the church, and
                    try to die in peace with God and man.
            After Randall left, I placed Elijah Whitten on the circuit. Whitten was then a warm exhorter, living
                    at 
                        Aurora
                    , where the society was unwilling to recommend him for license to preach, as he was
                    young in the work of public teaching. Elijah was exceedingly zealous and was useful on the circuit.
                    He was employed the next year by the elder on 
                        Connersville
                     and 
                        Wayne
                     circuits, where he had success; and at the close of the year he was recommended and
                    received on trial, and is still in the work. I have not heard him preach for many years, but I am
                    informed he has made great improvement in ministerial gifts. This was a glorious year for 
                        Vevay
                     circuit especially at the camp meetings. The last quarterly meeting was a camp meeting,
                    held between three and four miles from 
                        Madison
                    . This meeting, as a whole was the best I ever saw. The meeting lasted eight days, and
                    there was no necessity of reproving man, woman, or child, from beginning to end as a divine
                    influence seemed to pervade the whole encampment all the time the meeting lasted; for persons would
                    come on the ground in the intervals of public service, and without any visible agency, they would be
                    melted into tears. We had no splendid preaching, as we sometimes hear a certain kind of talented
                    preaching now called, but plain, simple truth was mighty through God's Spirit to awaken and
                    convert. This was the last camp meeting attended by Benjamin C. Stevenson, where he preached
                    profitably. On a moderate estimate, one hundred or more souls passed from darkness into light, and
                    were made happy in a Savior's love; and about one hundred and thirty presented themselves
                    as applicants for the privileges of the church. Many of our friends in 
                        Madison
                     encamped on the ground and shared largely in the glories of the meeting, and many of
                    the citizens who did not encamp were greatly benefitted by the meeting. A boarding tent,  owned by a decent family of colored people, was of great utility to the
                    meeting. The regulations of the tent, owned were good; for the eating hours were the same as those
                    of the tenters and every thing was as orderly as in any city hotel. Here the young gentlemen and
                    ladies, from the town, obtained their meals at a moderate price, and were not a burden to their
                    neighbors who had tents, as they would have been if they had done as many have done in a later day,
                    who go to camp meetings to sponge and be waited on. Whenever I pass that ground, now in a farm, I
                    think of the many souls in glory now, who were fed and feasted here, and of many more who are still
                    on the way. And are we to have no more such meetings for the want of laws to protect them? Remember
                    this, ye friends of good order, when you go to the ballot box.
            There was another camp meeting for this circuit held near the Bark Works, mentioned before, which was
                    also a blessed meeting, where much good was done. At this meeting, the friends of good order had to
                    tie a drunken rowdy, who has since been a member of the Indiana legislature. The increase on the
                    circuit this year was two hundred and thirty-six and the old members were much improved in their
                    piety. The preachers on this circuit found an excellent helper for the work in the person of James
                    Jones, who had been a zealous and successful traveling preacher, but who was now in local life,
                    without any loss of zeal and industry, which cannot be affirmed of many preachers who have located.
                    Jones afterward joined the traveling connection and still remains in it a laborious and useful
                    preacher.
            M'Reynolds, who was in charge of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit, has been mentioned before. He had for his colleague an extraordinary young man
                    in many respects. A young man so intellectual I have never known, but he was a very child in common
                    sense. His memory was good—such, that he could memorize eight or ten pages in an
                    afternoon; and by reviewing the next morning, the matter became his permanently. He was an eloquent
                    man, and sometimes a powerful and successful preacher. Had he possessed deep piety and stability, he
                    would now have been the brightest star in the western  country;
                    but alas! he was wanting in both. The next year, while on 
                        Vevay
                     circuit, he became an infidel, and left the work. While on my way home from a distant
                    part of the districts, I called to see him, and found him good-natured and social, but avowedly
                    infidel in his sentiments. He told me that the Universalists had tried to prevail on him to join
                    them; but he refused telling them that they were not honest, because they did not believe the Eible
                    any more than he did, and that their professions of belief in it was only to serve a purpose, by
                    giving them influence with the public. He told me that he intended to make his living by writing. I
                    asked him what he intended to write? And he replied, "Novels and poetry." He
                    visited several places where he had preached with great popularity, and delivered infidel lectures;
                    but he who had charmed and astonished, and enraptured thousands, was now so shorn of his strength
                    that he could make no impression on the public mind; and even his eloquence was gone and he could
                    not interest any kind of an audience. He went southwest to a remote part of 
                        Arkansas
                    , where he married, and professed to be reclaimed, and was restored to the ministry, and
                    did well for a season; but he fell again and became a lawyer and politician; and the last I heard of
                    him he was a desperado. A few years since, I saw a poetical production of his, which, for wit and
                    sarcasm cannot be easily excelled. To see such a mind as his a mere football for the devil to play
                    with, does beggar and pour contempt upon poor human nature beyond anything which I have known. It
                    would be a great gratification to me to have one more interview with him; and sometimes I feel
                    willing to walk all night in the mud, if I could see him; for I should hope to do him some good. His
                    penitent letter to me after his first fall, was most feeling. 0 Alfred, Alfred, come back, come
                    back, and walk in the good and the right way!
            Although a goodly number were awakened and converted, especially in the Big Bottom, there was a
                    decrease of one hundred and twenty on 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit.
            Michael S. Taylor, the preacher in charge of White Water circuit, has been mentioned before. His
                    colleague, Isaac Kim-ball, had been recommended from 
                        Ohio
                    , and was received on  trial at the conference which
                    met in 
                        Vincennes
                     in the fall of 1830. Isaac was a pious, well-meaning but rather weak-minded man; but he
                    was useful to some extent, and passed pretty well on the circuit. He traveled a few years, and
                    located, and the last I heard of him, the Millerite mania had taken such fast hold of him, that he
                    was bereft of reason. I do not mean that he was a maniac in the common acceptation of that term, but
                    that like all other zealous Millerites, he was stark mad about the world ending soon; and if so, I
                    would say before the Gospel has done much for it; for in view of the small amount of Christianity in
                    the world at the present and former times, if the world should now end, the Gospel is a failure. I
                    hope Isaac's derangement will end, and he will yet see many days with a sound mind in a
                    sound body. Taylor and Kimball labored in perfect harmony, and they had glorious times in almost all
                    parts of the circuit especially about 
                        Brookville
                     and at a camp meeting about five miles from the town, where Arrington preached some of
                    his most popular powerful, and successful sermons. Under his Sabbath sermon, some of the old, steady
                    members, who were seldom excited, shouted aloud, as if they had been new converts. The increase on
                    the circuit was one hundred and ninety-five.
            Beek and Robinson, who have both been noticed, had good times on 
                        Wayne
                     circuit, and the increase was one hundred and eighty. The last quarterly meeting was
                    held on a new camp ground a little north of the National Road, between 
                        Richmond
                     and Centreville. James Havens and William Holman of 
                        Kentucky
                     helped us much at this meeting. I had little or no enjoyment at this meeting, because I
                    felt that I and Robinson ought to have been at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , where there was a door open, and we had left a good prospect to do good, such a one
                    perhaps as was never afterward realized there.
            Beach, the preacher in charge of 
                        Connersville
                     circuit, was a man of some year's standing as a member of the church, but
                    young in the ministry, who had just been received on trial. He was zealous, and so remains to this
                    day; for he is yet in the work, being a member of the North Indiana conference. He is a man of only
                    medium preaching talents, but his diligence and zeal have made him successful beyond many others.
                    His  travels in Indiana have been extensive. His colleague, the
                    amiable Wesley Wood, has been noticed before. These brethren labored with acceptability and some
                    success; for they had an increase of forty-six. The last quarterly meeting was a good camp meeting,
                    near an old deserted meeting-house called 
                        Hopewell
                    , which has been superseded by the erection of a good new meeting-house lately. This
                    neighborhood was once the best one for Methodism in all that section of country; but two brothers,
                    who were local preachers, set up for themselves, and drew away disciples after them, to the great
                    injury of the cause of God. The society is now doing well, and is a part of Milroy circuit.
            Amos Sparks, the senior preacher on Rushville circuit, has been noticed before. He had for the junior
                    preacher, John C. Smith. John was of Baptist parentage, who trained him in a religious way. Edwin
                    Ray, the first year he was in 
                        Madison
                    , was the instrument of John's awakening, when he and his mother and sister,
                    now the wife of John Kerns, and perhaps some other members of the family joined the Methodist
                    Episcopal church. Smith had been recently licenced to preach, and was now admitted on trial. His
                    education wps better than most of our young men had at that day, and he was a very acceptable
                    preacher from the beginning of his ministry. This heavy circuit was a great trial to his feeble
                    constitution, but he sustained the labor beyond expectation. This brother, as I have before said,
                    charges with acceptability and success. These brethren had a year of success for they had an
                    increase of one hundred and ninety-eight. This was Kern's second year on Vernon circuit,
                    which was extended south, so as to embrace several appointments on the upper end of 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit. These appointments only remained one year in connection with Vernon circuit,
                    as 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit was divided the next year; and the upper part called 
                        Lexington
                    , which embraced these appointments. The Vernon circuit being now a heavy one, I
                    employed Lewis Hurlbut to help Kerns. Brother Hurlbut being somewhat advanced in life before he
                    commenced preaching, and having a heavy voice, and being zealous, he could not well endure the labor
                    of preaching so frequently as he had to preach on this  circuit,
                    so that he nearly broke down. After preaching a few years as a local preacher, and becoming inured
                    to the work of public speaking, he joined the traveling connection, and has now been a number of
                    years a laborious and successful traveling preacher. These brethren had good times, and the Minutes report an increase of one hundred and seventy-five, but the increase was
                    not so much; for, as I have said before, a part of 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit was included in this number. The last quarterly meeting was a good camp
                    meeting, near to where the present town of 
                        New Marion
                     stands on the 
                        Michigan
                     road.
            As 
                        Fort Wayne
                     is out of my prescribed limits, I merely mention it this year, to show when we
                    commenced operations in that then new country. Griffith, the missionary, had some success, and
                    returned fifteen members. Early in autumn, the presiding elder and Richard S. Robinson visited the
                    mission, and held a most interesting meeting in the Masonic Hall; for there was no church in the
                    town. The elder preached in the daytime, and Robinson at night, for several days in succession; and
                    on Sunday every Methodist, Presbyterian, and Baptist in the congregation, came to the sacrament.
                    Among the latter were two widowed sisters, who were well educated and intelligent half-blood
                    Indians. If the preachers had not been called by official relations to other parts of the work, and
                    could have remained a few days longer, religion would have taken such a hold of the community as it
                    did not for many years. I felt a strong impulse to stay and let the camp meeting in 
                        Wayne county
                     be managed without me and Robinson; and Griffith told me afterwards that if we had
                    staid, he believed nearly the whole town would have surrendered. I have never thought about our
                    leaving when we did without regret.
            All the charges in the district had a handsome increase, except 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , so that the apparent net increase was nine hundred and twenty-eight, but we must
                    deduct for the members received from Charleston circuit, so that the net increase was between seven
                    and eight hundred, perhaps quite eight hundred. In this account, I do not include the numbers in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , as that is out of my proposed limits, and I only mention it incidentally, as a part of
                    the 
                        Madison
                     district.
            
            James Armstrong, frequently mentioned before, was placed on the newly formed 
                        Indianapolis
                     district. The writer now having no connection with this work, cannot be expected to
                    give so full and detailed accounts as he formerly did. As nearly all his statements are made from
                    personal knowledge where he traveled himself, no considerate man can expect him to give full
                    accounts of the work to which he is a stranger, only from information picked up years ago
                    incidentally and kept in his memory; for all the documentary information which he has received could
                    be contained in one closely written sheet, except a few communications from 
                        Madison
                    , a small part of which only was of use to him. Most of the writer's
                    information which he has received, came after his accounts of the places from whence it was received
                    were printed. Surely brethren cannot expect him to insert their accounts received out of due season.
                    Should a revisal of his numbers ever be called for, these after accounts might be of use.
            Evans and Bonner seem to have had a prosperous year on 
                        Fall Creek
                     for the increase was one hundred and twenty-five; but I presume their support was very
                    limited, as they both had families; and our new circuits did not support their preachers well in
                    those days. Indeed, the old ones did not yield a good support.
            Thomas S. Hitt remained a second year in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     station, where he succeeded well, and had an increase of eighty-five.
            
               
                        Scott
                     had some prosperity on the 
                        Franklin
                     circuit, as there was an increase of thirty-seven on the circuit. So far as I know, the
                    presiding elder, and preachers, and people, in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     district co-operated harmoniously in the good old ways of the Lord, and they had peace
                    in all their borders. The three charges in this district which fall in my limits, all had
                    prosperity, and the whole increase was two hundred and forty-seven.
            Strange remained on the 
                        Charlestown
                     district, and continued useful; but his health was rapidly declining; and had he
                    desisted from labor then or at an earlier period, he might possibly have recovered; but his avowed
                    purpose was, never to stop while he could put his leg over the back of the horse, so  as to get in the saddle. This resolution was maintained to the last.
            James L. Thompson was sent alone to the 
                        Charlestown
                     dis. trict, which had been curtailed some by taking off the upper end; but still it was
                    too large for any one man to do the work sequired, to make the circuit prosperous. Whether the elder
                    employed any one to assist Thompson I have forgotten, if ever I knew. Thompson went to the circuit
                    depressed in his feelings, as it would any other man, with a tender heart who loves his family. The
                    circuit did not prosper, and there is an apparent decrease of two hundred and sixty-three, but there
                    was not really so large a decrease; for, as I have before said, a part of the members were attached
                    to Vernon circuit. There was, however, doubtless a considerable decrease, as we should expect with
                    one man on so large a circuit with so many members.
            This year, 
                        New Albany
                     was made a station, and Calvin W. Ruter appointed to it. I do not know at what time
                    this town was laid out, but I think about 1811 or 1812, or perhaps earlier. At first it settled
                    rather slowly, if I have been rightly informed, or perhaps it settled as fast at first and
                    subsequently declined, as did most of our towns of that day. It is now the largest town in Indiana.
                    At what time the first society was formed, I cannot say positively; but a letter from F. A. Hester
                    gives the best information I have. If the account is incorrect, others must correct it. I will give
                    an extract from that letter.
            
                    Brother Shrader informed me, that in the spring of 1818, he was sent, by the presiding elder,
                        from 
                            Vincennes
                        , to take the place of John Cord on the Silver Creek circuit, Cord being permitted
                        to leave on account of his loss by fire. In the summer of this year he preached, he thinks, the
                        first Methodist sermon in 
                            Jeffersonville
                         and 
                            New Albany
                        ; and in these new towns formed the first classes (of this he has greater confidence
                        in reference to the latter). Some of the members in the latter place, were Grace and wife,
                        Sleede and wife, Mrs. Bowman, and Mrs. Beach. Of the members in the latter place, were Downey
                        and wife, Beeler and wife, the widow Ruff and two daughters and James Scott, whom he licensed to
                        exhort. The names of the others he has forgotten. In 
                            New Albany
                        , the preaching place this year was a tavern belonging to Mrs. Ruff, in which he
                        administered the Lord's supper the first time, he thinks, it was ever administered in
                        the town. While Cord was on the  circuit, a revival began
                        which spread, under Shrader, over almost the whole circuit. In the fall of this year, the
                        circuit was divided at the instance of brother Shrader, of which were constituted the Silver
                        Creek and Indian Creek circuits.
                
            I thank brother Hester for his information, and would have been glad to have had it months ago, as I
                    could have then used some other information contained in his letter to advantage, while giving some
                    account of brother Shrader. I have before stated, that Shrader and Everhart were appointed to Indian
                    Creek in the fall of 1819, one year having intervened since Shrader had traveled a part of the year
                    on Silver Creek. In a short time Everhart left, and Shrader had to do all the work. This year he
                    preached in a small frame meeting-house in 
                        New Albany
                     which the people had built the previous year. The following year the circuit, or at
                    least a part of it, was called Corydon, and Shrader appointed to it. During both of these years, the
                    good work prospered on the circuit generally, and in 
                        New Albany
                     particularly. My informant says, Shrader is yet in good health, and generally preaches
                    twice every Sabbath, and frequently on the week-days. I will just say of the persons named in the
                    above extract, sister Sleede, brother and sister Downey, and old sister Beeler, are all who are now
                    known to the writer as being alive. The first time he preached in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , in the fall of 1825, he preached the funeral sermon of brother Grace, the first named
                    in the list. Sister Grace may be living; but the widow Ruff and her daughters I never knew, unless
                    they were married and bore cjther names when I was stationed at 
                        New Albany
                     in 1836–7. I should have excepted 
                        Scott
                    , who is a superannuated preacher in the North Indiana conference.
            How many members Ruter found in the town when it was made a station, I do not know. He had a
                    prosperous year, and returned two hundred and eighty-two, which was only two less than 
                        Madison
                     had, which had been a station six years. 
                        New Albany
                     soon outgrew 
                        Madison
                     in its membership, and still keeps in the advance. Both are flourishing towns, and the
                    societies have room to prosper.
            William Moore, the preacher in charge of Corydon circuit, has been mentioned before. He had for his
                    colleague a plain  young man, who was pious and devoted, and had
                    been one year in the work. He traveled four years, and then located, and so remained until the fall
                    of 1840, when he was readmitted, and traveled a part of two years, and was superannuated one, and
                    died. I had very little personal knowledge of brother Decker; but from all I can learn, he was an
                    excellent man. In the Minutes for 1844–45, page 587, will be found an
                    interesting account of this brother. That account, however, has three considerable mistakes. The
                    first is in giving him two years more as a traveling preacher than was the fact, by placing the
                    conference in 
                        New Albany
                    , at which he located in in 1834, instead of 1832. The second in placing him on Boon;
                    ville circuit, when it should have been Newburg. The third in placing him on Brunville circuit in
                    1842, when it should have been Bruceville. I suppose the latter to be a typographical error. What
                    amount of prosperity attended the labors of these brethren on Corydon, I do not know. The Minutes show a decrease of one hundred and one, but there was not that decrease;
                    for the members which were in 
                        New Albany
                    , when it was constituted a station, are to be deducted from this circuit, after which I
                    presume there will be a good increase.
            Both the preachers on 
                        Salem
                     circuit are new men in this part of the work.
            Ashael L. Risley was received on trial in the fall of 1827, and continued to travel until the fall of
                    1839, so that he was twelve years in the work, except one year superannuated, one supernumerary, and
                    one local. The second time he located, he remained local three years, when he again joined the
                    traveling connection, and still continues in the work. This brother, though not so energetic in his
                    preaching as some ministers, became an intelligent man; and when I knew him in the 
                        Wabash
                     country in the summer of 1841, he was an excellent man, and an able and useful
                    preacher, and was sorry that he had located.
            Dr. Talbott was received on trial this year, and was young in the ministry. I presume in his
                    beginning he had not so much zeal and energy as now, but he gave proof of his sincerity by
                    relinquishing a good practice as a physician, and  placing
                    himself and family in the dependent condition of a traveling preacher, when support was not half so
                    good as it is at present. He gradually improved in talents, zeal, and usefulness and has sustained
                    himself well, and has now been nearly nine years filling the important office of presiding elder in
                    the Indiana conference. These brethren had not a very prosperous year, for there was a decrease of
                    one hundred and twelve on 
                        Salem
                     circuit. Since writing the account of 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, it seems to me, but it is like a dream that Risley spent a part of this year
                    on that circuit, and Dr. Oglesby was employed to fill his place on 
                        Salem
                     circuit. I am sure Risley was at one of our quarterly meetings in 
                        Madison
                    , and I think he came from 
                        Charlestown
                    .
            John T. Johnson, the preacher in charge of Paoli circuit, has been before us several times, and need
                    not be noticed farther. His colleague, William S. Crissey, was received on trial this year, and I
                    believe he is yet in the traveling connection; and was in the fall of 1844 a superannuated preacher
                    of the 
                        Illinois
                     conference. This brother traveled mostly in 
                        Illinois
                    , so that I know but little of him; but judging from all I do know, he has been a worthy
                    minister. Paoli circuit decreased twenty-nine, being the third year that it was on the decline, and
                    we shall find that it declined the next year; and should I continue these accounts we shall find it
                    declining for sometime to come.
            I find 
                        Columbus
                     circuit left to be supplied this year, but by whom it was supplied I do not know; but
                    rather think by Nathan Fairchild who has lived within its bounds many years, except two years when,
                    he traveled. Nathan is an excellent man; and had it not been for the weight of his family, and the
                    great danger of a premature failure from his great zeal, he would have made a very valuable man in
                    the traveling ranks. He cannot preach like some ministers, but he can exhort to great advantage, and
                    is useful wherever he labors. I find the circuit had an increase of one hundred and seven.
            In the six charges which we have noticed in the 
                        Charlestown
                     district there is apparently a decrease of one hundred and sixteen, but I suppose that
                    many, or more, were detached from 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit and united to Vernon, so  that there was
                    very little variation in the numbers this year and last. The three last years have not been
                    prosperous to this part of the work.
            Taking the whole ground over which we have traveled this year, the increase was one thousand and
                    forty-nine, which was doing pretty well in this old part of the state, from which hundreds of
                    members moved every year, to find new homes far in the west and northwest, besides those who left us
                    to go to their final home in heaven.
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , August 5, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, October 2, 1846.
            No. XXXIII
            1831–32.—
                        Madison
                     district, Allen Wiley; 
                        Madison
                     station, Thomas S. Hitt; 
                        Vevay
                     circuit, John T. Johnson and Alfred W. Arrington; 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Joseph Oglesby and John C. Smith; White Water, John W. M'Reynolds and William
                    M. Daily; 
                        Wayne
                    , Joseph Tarkington and James T. Robe; 
                        New Castle
                    , Ancil Beach; 
                        Connersville
                    , Asa Beek; 
                        Greensburg
                    , Isaac Kimball and Josiah H. Hill; Mississineway, Robert Burns; 
                        Indianapolis
                     district, John Strange; 
                        Fall Creek
                    , Nathan Fairchild; Rushville, Charles Bonner and Cornelius Swank; 
                        Indianapolis
                     station, Benjamin C. Stevenson; 
                        Franklin
                    , Eli P. Farmer; 
                        Columbus
                    , Amos Sparks; 
                        Charlestown
                     district, William Shanks, 
                        Charlestown
                     Circuit, William Moore and Daniel M. Murphy; 
                        Lexington
                    , John Kerns; 
                        New Albany
                     station, Calvin W. Ruter; Corydon, John Miller and Anthony F. Thompson; 
                        Salem
                    , Michael S. Taylor and George M. Beswick; Paoli, Thomas Davis.
            It will be perceived that there were more divisions of circuits this year than formerly, as several
                    new ones will appear in our aczount. It will be perceived, also, that there was considerable
                    shifting of circuits from one district to another to equalize the work.
            
            This was Wiley's fourth year on the 
                        Madison
                     district, and it was to him a year of hard work; and a few days after the close of the
                    year a time of painful family bereavement.
            Thomas S. Hitt was a good pastor in the 
                        Madison
                     station; but there was a decrease in the membership of thirty-four. This year, our
                    friends left their little old meetin'-house, which had well nigh ruined them by causing
                    them to lose from their congregation many valuable citizens who would now have been members of our
                    church. The church now found itself pleasantly situated in its new, large house, now called Wesley
                    Chapel. The gallery part of the house was not quite finished, but it answered well for the then
                    congregation. Many of the living did well in the erection of this house; but one who is dead devoted
                    more time, and perhaps contributed more means than any other; and the church in 
                        Madison
                     will long owe a debt of gratitude to the precious memory of William Robinson, whose
                    body, with the bodies of several members of his family, now sleeps about one mile and a half from 
                        Madison
                    , near the old road to Canaan. A more kind-hearted and honorable, and gentlemanly
                    Christian man than he was does not live. He was a native of oppressed 
                        Ireland
                     and he had all the quick sensibility of his countrymen, which was sometimes exhibited
                    in excited feeling; but it might be said of him, 
                        He bore anger as the flint bears fire, which being much enforced shows a hasty spark, and
                            straight is cold again.
                    
            
            When he died, the church lost a pillar, his family a wise head and a warm heart, and the community a
                    worthy citizen. Lovely man, I would say more about him, if I had room in these numbers.
            Johnson and Arrington were well received on 
                        Vevay
                     circuit, and were doing well until Arrington turned infidel, being partially deranged
                    by meta-physics, which he afterward advised young preachers not to study much; for when he found
                    himself ruined, he thought on this subject as the venerable James Quinn, of the 
                        Ohio
                     conference, whom I once heard pray, most fervently, at an annual conference, and in the
                    most impassioned part of his prayer he cried out at the top of his voice, "Lord, save us
                    from metaphysical froth, from philosophical  chaff."
                    After Arrington left the circuit, I employed Benjamin Tivis to travel with Johnson. Tivis had
                    formerly traveled in 
                        Kentucky
                    , but was now local. Next to Arrington, Tivis had the best memory, especially in the
                    Bible, of any man whom I have known. I once heard him preach a long, able sermon at a camp meeting,
                    on the divinity of Christ which consisted of literal, verbatim quotations from the Bible, giving
                    book, chapter, and verse, with a very few short explanatory remarks interspersed among the
                    quotations. Tivis is now Dr. Tivis, of 
                        Jefferson county
                    , who has been once or more a member of the Indiana legislature. The last quarterly
                    meeting was a middling good camp meeting, about the center of the circuit, as it then was. The
                    increase of the membership on the circuit was fifty-three.
            Joseph Oglesby, who was the first traveling preacher in the White Water country, and who had long
                    been local, now returned to the traveling ranks, and was appointed to the charge of Lawranceburg
                    circuit. I think, as I before said, that Strange had employed him a part of the preceding year on
                    the 
                        Salem
                     circuit. Oglesby and Smith were well received, and there was some prosperity on the
                    circuit, especially at the close of the year. There was a camp meeting near the road from Wilmington
                    to 
                        Manchester
                    , on a high hill, north of North Hogan. The elder having finished his last round of
                    quarterly meetings, attended this meeting, which was not a quarterly meeting. Here he was able to
                    preach three times, which was the first he had been able to preach for some weeks, except once, as
                    he had had a severe attack of the quinsy. He was now between sick and well, just in a situation to
                    be peevish if he would yield to temiptation. As he rode up the high hill to the camp ground he
                    thought about his condition, and he resolved to be pleased with everything which was not sinful; and
                    great was his peace and quiet of mind at that meeting. He mentions this fact for the admonition of
                    himself and others; for if he had gone there in a fault-making spirit, he would have made himself
                    and others unhappy, and mischief would have been the result. Daily, from the White Water circuit,
                    was there, and preached with liberty, and the meeting was a glorious one, and much good was done.
                    The next  week, Smith and the writer had a glorious meeting at
                    Lawrenceburg, where much good was done, so that the year wound up with a blessed revival in that
                    town. Richard S. Robinson, who was missionary that year at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , was at the Lawrenceburg meeting, and was a blessing to it, and enjoyed the society of
                    the friends very much, with whom he had traveled two years before. Upon the whole, this was a good
                    year to the circuit, and there was an increase of forty-four which was only one-third of the last
                    year's decrease.
            John W. M'Reynolds, the preacher in charge of White Water circuit, was well received and had
                    for his colleague William M. Daily, who had been reared and educated in and near 
                        Brookville
                    . At the time he was received on trial he lived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     where he had been teaching school and preaching acceptably as a local preacher. As he
                    was recommended from Armstrong's district, he claimed William, and had him placed on
                    Covington circuit, on the 
                        Wabash
                    ; and he was read out for that circuit. William concluded that the 
                        Wabash
                     climate would not agree with his health, and he refused to go; and Bishop Roberts, in
                    his good nature, permitted Armstrong and Wiley to make a change, but told us we would hurt feelings
                    and do harm. Well, this was one of the errors of Armstrong and Wiley: "for it is good for a
                    man to bear the yoke in his youth," especially if he be a traveling preacher; but the
                    sympathies of Wiley for a slender, feeble stripling, yet in his teens overcame his better judgment,
                    and made him have a hand in error. William was zealous and talented for one of his age, and his
                    youth and youthful appearance made him acceptable to the people, although he had been partly raised
                    in 
                        Brookville
                    , the principal town in the circuit. As Hitt, of the 
                        Madison
                     station, was a delegate to the General conference, the elder placed Daily in charge of
                    that station in the absence of the pastor, after admonishing him, by letter, that he was too young
                    for such a place, and that nothing but the necessity of the case induced him to take that course, as
                    the older men could not be spared from their own charges. Now I would let any station do two months
                    with what occasional preaching it could get, rather than place any person so young as William then
                    was in a charge so important as 
                        Madison
                    
                     was at that time. I have lived long enough to see that almost
                    all young men who are placed prematurely in stations, sustain a very great injury in many ways. The
                    labors of M'Reynolds and Daily were blessed in the awakening and conversion of many souls,
                    and the circuit prospered, and there was an increase of one hundred and thirty-six.
            Tarkingtcn, the preacher in charge of 
                        Wayne
                     circuit, has come before us several times, and I need not add anything more concerning
                    him. His colleague, James T. Robe, had just been received on trial without much experience or
                    theological knowledge, or much zeal and energy in his performances, and I deemed it expedient to
                    change him and Whitten, whom I had employed to travel with Beek on 
                        Connersville
                     circuit. Robe was very loth to be changed, but the change had a good effect on him, as
                    it waked his mental powers to greater zeal and energy. If the practice were general to change all
                    dull men often, and let them know that the people wish it to be so, it would rouse them to more
                    effort, or drive them from the field where others would work better. This brother traveled several
                    years without much eminence or success, and then located, and I believe he now lives in the north
                    part of Indiana or in 
                        Michigan
                    . How he passes as a local preacher, I know not.
            This year, on 
                        Wayne
                     circuit was a good one; and there were many glorious conversions. The last quarterly
                    meeting was a heavenly camp meeting, on the camp ground at Dodd-ridge's meeting-house. In
                    the summer of this year there was a singular exercise among the people on this circuit. Many of
                    them, when they would become happy at meeting would commence laughing aloud and continue doing so
                    for hours. Once the laughing commenced, the persons so exercised could no more stop it than they
                    could stop the wind. So divided were the people in their views of this thing, that I felt it to be
                    my duty to introduce it in a sermon at the close of a camp meeting, with the view to prevent the
                    laughers and their op-posers from being tempted at each other. I advised those who laughed not to
                    invite the exercise, and those who were not so exercised not to doubt the sincerity of their
                    brethren; for involuntary when once commenced. Brother Whitten, who was  in the stand behind me, and who had felt some of the symptoms in the
                    former part of the sermon was well nigh thrown into the "jerks" of a former day,
                    by resisting his emotions. Brother McReynolds, of the White Water circuit, told me that his exercise
                    was once in 
                        Kentucky
                    , and that his sister, now sister M'Bride of 
                        New Albany
                    , laughed all day and all night when she was converted. I neither approve nor condemn
                    this mysterious thing. Doubtless Heaven had some purpose to accomplish in sending or permitting this
                    exercise; but what this purpose was I know not, unless it was to convince skeptics that there is an
                    invisible agency which acts on the human mind, and by that means on human nerves, and tendons. After
                    a few months the thing subsided, and I have known nothing of it for years.
            The Minutes show a decrease of one hundred and sixteen cn 
                        Wayne
                     circuit this year, but there was not really a decrease; for that part of the circuit
                    which was in 
                        Randolph county
                    , was united to that part of 
                        Connersville
                     circuit which was in 
                        Henry county
                    , and formed the new 
                        Newcastle
                     circuit, which now appears in the Minutes for the first time. I
                    presume there was a handsome increase, but to what amount I do not know, as I do not know how many
                    went into the 
                        Newcastle
                     circuit. I think it was this year that our meeting-house in Centreville was much
                    enlarged; but in this I may be mistaken. That house is now owned by the Cumberland Presbyterians and
                    our people have a noble brick meeting-house, with a basement story.
            Beach, who was mentioned last year in connection with 
                        Connersville
                     circuit, was sent to the 
                        Newcastle
                     circuit. He was successful, but to what extent I do not know; for I do not know how
                    many members were taken from 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Connersville
                     circuits to form this new one. He returned to the fall conference six hundred and
                    sixty-two members. The last quarterly meeting was a good camp meeting, held near where 
                        Huntsville
                     now is. I was not able to preach at this meeting, as I had a severe attack of the
                    quinsy, which came on me at 
                        Winchester
                    , after my return from the Mississineway, where I fell sick on my way to the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     mission, to which I had started and desired to reach more than any place  this side heaven; but I had to give up the journey. I talked a little
                    at this meeting, perhaps with more effect than I could have had, if I had been well; for I have
                    heard that some souls were awakened.
            I find in the Minutes a Mississineway charge, with Robert Burns on it, who returned
                    thirty-two members in the fall; but I have no kind of recollection of being at any quarterly meeting
                    in this work. As Burns was a supernumerary that year, it strikes me that he was sent to the new
                    settlements on the Mississineway river, below that part of it which was in 
                        Newcastle
                     circuit, to see if any thing could be done toward forming a circuit, not expecting the
                    presiding elder to attend any quarterly meeting in it. The next year it was left to be supplied, and
                    the following year it was made a mission, and connected with the Northwestern district, on which
                    James Armstrong was placed, and Freeman Farnsworth on the Mission. I suppose 
                        Marion
                     circuit now embraces the work traveled this year by Robert Burns. This was a hard field
                    for a feeble man.
            Beek and Whitten the first part of the year, and Robe the last part, had a prosperous time on 
                        Connersville
                     circuit. The Minutes show a decrease of two hundred and thirty, but
                    this apparent decrease was caused by the formation of the 
                        Newcastle
                     circuit, which embraced much of the north part of 
                        Connersville
                     circuit. The last quarterly meeting was a camp meeting, a few miles from 
                        Connersville
                    , on a new camp ground, called Poplar Grove, where several camp meetings were held. I
                    was still unable to preach at this meeting, in consequence of my quinsy. I talked a little on
                    Sabbath, after which the ulceration broke in my throat. On Sabbath I would have been willing to part
                    with my good horse worth seventy-five dollars, if I could have preached. What poor things we are;
                    for had I been well, I should probably have been both to preach.
            Isaac Kimball, the preacher in charge of 
                        Greensburg
                     circuit, has been before noticed. His colleague, Hill, was a poor, vain, silly young
                    man, who said his father was a rich man, living in 
                  Huntsville, Alabama
               , who had
                    banished him for joining the Methodist Episcopal church. He said his father had become partly
                    reconciled to him; and as proof of the fact, he  showed a draft
                    purporting to be drawn by his father on some bank or mercantile house in 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; but every person who saw it, believed it to be in his own handwriting. He left 
                        Greensburg
                    , and what has become of him I know not. How he could spend a year on 
                        Greencastle
                     circuit, and then be continued on trial another year, is a mystery to me; for it seems
                    to me, that every man of discernment must have seen that he was a poor, silly, youth, who had no
                    claim to veracity. After Hill left, I employed David Stiver on the circuit. Stiver was received on
                    trial at the ensuing conference and traveled several years, and filled some important stations in
                    the church, being two years presiding elder on the Centreville district. He located in the fall of
                    1842, and now lives near 
                        Madison
                    . The 
                        Greensburg
                     circuit was the south part of the former mammoth Rushville circuit. What was the
                    prosperity or adversity of the circuit I do not know; for I do not know how many of the members fell
                    to 
                        Greensburg
                     in the division. The return in the fall was five hundred and fifty-five. Kimball,
                    although a good man, had not the art to manage a circuit well, but I think there was no decrease
                    this year.
            The summary of this district will show an increase of more than five hundred; and I had the pleasure
                    to leave the district in a peaceful and healthy state at the close of my four years' labor
                    on it. This healthy state was not so much owing to my own labors, as to the labors of the many
                    excellent men who helped me in the extended field which we had cultivated.
            This year there was formed a new district, called Craw-fordsville, in which Armstrong lived, and to
                    which he was appointed, so that there had to be a new elder sent to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     district. After much consultation, Strange, although really unable for any work was
                    sent to it. Strange doubted himself whether he could endure the labor; but while he was able to go
                    the thought of being without work was more terrible to him than death. I shall never forget the
                    earnest manner in which he said to me in private, "You know my situation and my wishes, and
                    I beseech you not to oppress me by depriving me of work," meaning he did not wish to be
                    superannuated. His health so failed before the close of the year, that the circuits had to do
                    without their elder a part of the time.
            
            Charles Bonner, noticed before, was placed in charge of Rushville circuit, from which 
                        Greensburg
                     had been taken. Swank, his colleague, had just been received on trial. He was a
                    diffident young man, of moderate talents at that time, but of an improvable mind and studious
                    habits, so that he finally became a preacher of respectable talents. He continued to travel until
                    the fall of 1844, when he located, and now lives in 
                        Montgomery county
                    , Indiana, from which he started. I suppose these brethren had a prosperous year; for
                    after taking off some hundreds to 
                        Greensburg
                     circuit, Rushville reported only one hundred and ninety-seven of a decrease.
            Nathan Fairchild was received on trial, and appointed to 
                        Fall Creek
                     circuit, where he was well received, and had some success; for there was an increase of
                    thirty-four on the circuit. Fairchild traveled two years, when the conference, out of pity and his
                    family discontinued him—pity to him, because he was breaking himself down—pity
                    to his family, because they were not supported and educated.
            Benjamin C. Stevenson was appointed to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     station and as I before said went to 
                        Madison
                     to prepare for a remove to 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; but instead of that, in a short time, he removed to another world. James Havens stands
                    on the Minutes this year as supernumerary, but was not appointed to any work.
                    After consultation with the official members, Strange concluded to place Havens in the now destitute 
                        Indianapolis
                     station, where he sustained himself far beyond the expectation of the people, who would
                    not have been willing to receive him for their preacher at the time conference met. This year so
                    endeared him to the church, that few men have so strong a hold on the affections of the old members
                    as he. There was a decrease of forty-five in the station this year, mostly, I presume, by removals.
            Eli P. Farmer, who was appointed to 
                        Franklin
                     circuit had been a great sinner, and was fond of personal collisions with men, as his
                    uncommon muscular strength made him superior to two ordinary men. The grace of God, however, made
                    the lion a lamb; but he is only such when grace has the strong ascendency; for when he becomes
                    excited, the lion is partly visible, and is hard to restrain. After his conversion, Eli felt  called to the ministry, and commenced traveling in the summer
                    of 1825, and continued to travel until the fall of 1833, when he located. Subsequently, he joined
                    the traveling connection and traveled two years and located again. Since his location he has served
                    three years in the senate of Indiana, being elected by two counties, which had an overwhelming
                    majority on the side of politics to which Farmer was opposed. Eli never read much, and could never
                    preach much; but he had great faith and an untiring zeal, and could exhort with much power. In the
                    days of his greatest success when he would go to a circuit, he would pray most fervently for a
                    definite number of souls to be added to his charge, varying that number in his mind until his faith
                    would rest satisfied; or, to use his own words, "until he could touch the Lord by
                    faith." When his mind became settled, he banished all doubts and misgivings, and went
                    cheerfully to work, fully expecting to have success up to, or over the settled number. At one time
                    he went into a small town on White River, where the people were all opposed to
                    the Methodists and Methodist preaching; but his faith was strong, and he told them they might as
                    well surrender at once, for he was confident that the Lord would give him the town.
            They raged for a season, and he preached, or rather exhorted, until awakenings commenced, and the
                    whole town, or nearly so, joined church, and became religious. I think his standard of increase on 
                        Franklin
                     circuit was four hundred, but he overwent that number eighty-four; for the Minutes report an increase of four hundred and eighty-four. The reader must be aware that
                    any man who gathers in so many hundreds of raw material must leave his successor some disciples who
                    are hard cases, who will be hard to Methodize. Farmer is yet living, and I hope he will do well; but
                    I fear for him, as I do for every man who is greatly eccentric; for such men seldom get to their
                    graves in honor; and the reason is, eccentric minds are not well balanced minds. With all
                    Eli's eccentricities, I love him dearly, and should be much grieved if he were to fall.
            Amos Sparks, who was sent to 
                        Columbus
                     circuit, has been noticed before. As 
                        Columbus
                     was not very contiguous to my  part of the work I
                    do not know much about the circuit this year. I find an increase of twenty-one.
            The precise increase in that part of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     district which falls in my prescribed limits, cannot be accurately ascertained in
                    consequence of the division of Rushville circuit; but as nigh as I can ascertain, it was between
                    seven and eight hundred. This was doing well in a new country.
            William Shanks, noticed several times before, was Strange's successor on the 
                        Charlestown
                     district, where he remained four years acceptable to the preachers and people. Shanks
                    is now, and has been many years, a superannuated member of the Indiana conference. He has been a
                    reputable member of both houses of the Indiana legislature.
            William Moore, the preacher in charge of the 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit died this year. I refer the reader to a former number for a more full account
                    of this brother. His colleague, Daniel M. Murphy, had traveled one year on the 
                        Wabash
                     before he came to this circuit. Murphy was a learned Irishman, who had only a few
                    sermons, which he is supposed to have picked up from other men, but he once told brother Havens he
                    could make more. He was unrefined in his conversation. This was the last year of his traveling, and
                    what has become of him I do not know. It is to be feared that he was an unprincipled man.
                    Moore's death, and Murphy's worthlessness, were heavy drawbacks on the circuit.
                    The Minutes report a decrease of three hundred and ninety-five, but there was not
                    that amount of decrease; for the 
                        Lexington
                     circuit was formed this year out of 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, and that part of Vernon circuit which had been detached from 
                        Charlestown
                     the preceding year.
            John Kerns was the preacher on 
                        Lexington
                     circuit, which was formed this year, and which should have been formed years before.
                    What success Kerns had this year, I have no means to ascertain; for I do not know how many members
                    he received from 
                        Charlestown
                     and Vernon circuits. The return, at the close of the year, was four hundred and
                    forty-nine.
            Vernon circuit now formed a part of the 
                        Charlestown
                     district and Isaac N. Elsberry, mentioned before, was the preacher. I suppose Elsberry
                    did well this year; for the circuit  reports only ninety-four of
                    a decrease, and there must have been more than that amount taken off and attached to the 
                        Lexington
                     circuit, so that there must have been an increase on the Vernon circuit. Taking the
                            
                  Charlestown, Lexington
               , and Vernon circuits together, there was a decrease of
                    forty-eight; but where to place the decrease, I cannot tell.
            This was the second year for Calvin W. Ruter in the 
                        New Albany
                     station, where he passed well, and managed the Church with prudence in a somewhat
                    stormy time. There was a decrease of six in the station this year.
            The first Indiana conference met in the fall of this year in this station in the month of October. As
                    the General conference in the spring of this year, made the state of Indiana a separate conference,
                    the bishops appointed the time and place both for the first meeting of the conference, after
                    consulting the delegates of the 
                        Illinois
                     conference, who lived in Indiana, as to the best place.
            John Miller, noticed before, was the preacher in charge of the Corydon circuit and had for his
                    colleague Anthony F. Thompson, who had been two years in the work, but not attending conference, I
                    think, in consequence of sickness, he was not received into full connection this year. The next year
                    he was received and ordained deacon, and received his appointment to 
                        Terre Haute
                     circuit; but in about three weeks a stroke of paralysis disabled him from preaching and
                    in the following May he died. The writer preached his funeral sermon, in connection with the funeral
                    sermon of John Strange in 
                        Madison
                    , in the fall of 1833. Thompson was brother to Samuel H. Thompson, formerly of the 
                        Illinois
                     conference, and of James L. Thompson, now of the North Indiana conference, and of John
                    R. Thompson, now secretary of state for Indiana. He was a young man of promise, who fell in the
                    prime of life. There is a short account of him in the second volume of the Minutes, page 277. From some cause, Miller and Thompson had not much success in their work;
                    for the report, at the end of the year, was a decrease of one hundred and eighty-three, which was a
                    large shrinkage. Perhaps some of the appointments might have been joined to some other charges.
            The amiable Michael S. Taylor was again sent to the 
                        Salem
                     circuit and had for his colleague, George M. Beswick, now of  the North Indiana conference. This was Beswick's first year in
                    the work. What was the grade of his talents, and the amount of his usefulness then, I do not know;
                    but he continued to grow gradually, until he has arrived to a very respectable standing with his
                    brethren and the public. He has been the last eight years a presiding elder, mostly in the 
                        Wabash
                     country; but at present on the Centreville district. How much success these brethren
                    had, I do not know. The Minutes report the same number as was reported last year.
                    If Taylor had not been at conference, I should suspect some mistake.
            Thomas Davis, noticed before, was appointed to Paoli circuit, but he did not continue on the circuit
                    until the close of the year, and who finished the balance of the year, is unknown to me. There was a
                    decrease of seven on the circuit.
            Owing to the changes of circuits from one district to another, it is hard to make an accurate summary
                    of this district this year, but according to the best estimate which I can make, there was a
                    decrease of between two and three hundred.
            The general summary of this year will show an increase of eleven hundred and fifty-five in the twenty
                    charges which I have noticed.
            I have now brought down these sketches to the fall of 1832, when Indiana became a separate
                    conference. A few biographical numbers remain, in which I wish to give a more full account of some
                    of the excellent men who were prominent actors in the work. That some will blame me for mentioning
                    their faults, I do not doubt; but if I do write, it must be the truth. That others, who are on good
                    terms with themselves, and are fond of flattery, will be as much displeased, because they are not
                    lauded up to what they think their due, I fully believe. I, however, have a full consciousness that
                    I have not designed to blame any man, unless it be for his or other's good, and that I have
                    not designedly withheld merited praise from any man. That brethren might have made these numbers
                    more interesting by furnishing me with documents in due time, I have felt from the beginning. I have
                    before stated, that this year's account would probably close these annals; and I now say
                    the same, unless the public should wish their continuation, and brethren will permit me to write the
                    truth without murmuring.
            
            Should I write no more, except the notices of worthy and prominent brethren, which are partly
                    promised, I would be glad if some brother or brethren would continue the accounts to the present
                    time. Had I known in the beginning that the work would have enlarged as it has, I doubt whether I
                    should ever have made a beginning; but I do not now regret that I did commence; for I have received
                    many testimonials that these sketches have been read with interest by many. It is true I have now
                    and then heard of a sarcastic slur being thrown out in quarters where I would not have expected it,
                    but that should deter no man from doing some good.
            Although the labor has been intense to my mind and body, in the intervals of full duty on a heavy
                    district, yet I have had the pleasure the last nine months of living over most of my past life, and
                    I have learned what a vast store-house the human memory is; for most of the matter which I have
                    written has been drawn from a memory which I have deemed a poor one, and that matters might have
                    been swelled to five times its present amount (and then what a large amount remains untouched), if I
                    were to continue the accounts fourteen years longer, so as to reach the present day.
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, October 9, 1846.
            No. XXXIV
            John Strange was the son of a Methodist local preacher, who was lost on a wilderness journey, and
                    died in the woods, and the place where his bones lie is not known with any certainty to this day.
                    This event occurred when John was quite young. Whether he died by sickness, or starvation, or was
                    killed and devoured by wild beasts, is equally unknown. Whether he was the Obadiah Strange, whose
                    name appears on the Minutes three successive years, beginning with 1796, I have
                    not been able to ascertain; for if John ever said anything to me about the travels of his father, I
                    have forgotten  it, and have not received the information from
                    his few surviving relatives who know anything about this matter. The religious views and habits of
                    John's step-father are unknown to me. I suppose he was a man of some humor; for I have
                    heard John say, when he would miss an opportunity of obtaining advantages, the old gentleman would
                    say, "Ah, John, when it rains soup, you have no spoon." From all that I have been
                    able to learn, his mother was a very devout and uniformly religious woman, who did what she could to
                    impress the minds of her children with the importance and necessity of religion. Her endeavors made
                    a good impression on the hearts of her two sons, with whom I have been acquainted. James, the elder
                    of the brothers, has been for many years a steady member of the church in 
                        Parke county
                    , Indiana, where he still lives respected by all who know him. He was at one time a
                    judge in his county.
            The very buoyant feelings of John made him wild and frolicksome in his youth; but the early religious
                    impressions of his younger days were only suppressed, not obliterated, so that a combination of
                    favorable circumstances revived them, and he was soundly and powerfully converted to God by the
                    operations of the Holy Spirit. When he was quite a young man, hardly grown, he left 
                        Virginia
                    , the state in which he was born, November 15th, 1789. Having left the home of his youth
                    for a new and rather frontier part of 
                        Ohio
                    , and made his home with a local preacher named Smith, who, I think, afterward left the
                    Methodist Episcopal church, and joined some branch of seceders from her pale. At that time, Smith
                    and his wife were devout people and were kind and useful to Strange. Here loneliness and separation
                    from his wild associates gave him time to think on the past means of grace which he had enjoyed and
                    neglected, and the few religious helps which he now enjoyed were better relished and more esteemed
                    than they had been while at home, and he became deeply convinced of his sinfulness, and awakened to
                    a sense of his lost condition, and he sought the Lord with great earnestness. I have often heard him
                    say in lovefeast and in preaching, that he was lying stretched out full length, flat on his back, I
                    think on the ground, when God pardoned his  sins, and
                    regenerated his soul, and filled him with joy unspeakable and full of glory, and gave him a clear,
                    Scriptural evidence of his acceptance with his heavenly Father.
            What length of time intervened between Strange's conversion and his conviction that the Head
                    of the Church had called him to preach, I do not know. I suppose, however, that it was not long for
                    he commenced exercising his gifts in public shortly after he knew the Lord by a happy experience of
                    his love. Sometime in 1810, in his twenty-first year, he commenced his itinerant career, being
                    employed by James Quinn, who was then presiding elder on the Muskingum district. While so employed,
                    his horse failed, and he took his Bible in one pocket and his hymn book in the other, and went on
                    foot round his circuit. I have heard him say that the fatigue of walking, and his hard ministerial
                    labor, made him very humble, and he never enjoyed himself better. One day he preached until he
                    fainted with exhaustion, and when he came to himself nearly all the people were shouting, and he was
                    as happy as he could be in the body, and thought of nothing but laboring as hard as he could and
                    going home to heaven in a few months. The Western conference met at 
                  New Chapel, Shelby county, Kentucky
               , November 1, 1810, when he was received
                    on trial, being a few days under twenty-one years old. In the account of him in the bound Minutes, written by myself, there is a mistake of one year; for I was misled by
                    the caption of the Minutes which says for 1811, but the Western conference met in
                    1810. His first appointment was to 
                        Wells
                    ' Creek, Muskingum district, with James Quinn for his presiding elder, for whom
                    he always cherished the most respectful opinion and the kindest feelings. At one time there was some
                    small abatement of that opinion and those feelings. I mean in the time of the Pelagian controversy
                    in the Methodist Episcopal church in the west, mentioned in former numbers. Brother Quinn was a
                    strong advocate for the total depravity of human nature, and brother Strange's associates
                    at the time: being a little inclining the other way, he was tempted to think his old friend was a
                    little ultra on that subject; but he lived to see the day, when his views of human depravity were
                    much stronger than they were in the days of the controversy. He 
                    was successful in his first charge; for there was an increase of one hundred and forty-nine in the
                    circuit which must then have been comparatively a frontier work. His next appointment was with
                    William Burke, on the 
                        Cincinnati
                     circuit, with the excellent Solomon Langdon for presiding elder. On this circuit, there
                    was an increase of one hundred and eleven, which was probably owing chiefly to his labors; for
                    although old men are good for counsel and to manage affairs of the church, they are not usually very
                    successful in revival influence. His next field was White Water circuit, on the frontiers of
                    Indiana, in the time of the war, where I have before noticed his labors and perils, when he had to
                    carry his gun from block-house to block-house. As I have before noticed his labors in different
                    parts of Indiana, I shall, in this sketch, only notice his labors in 
                        Ohio
                    . In the fall of 1815, he was appointed to White Oak circuit, east of the Little Miami,
                    where there was a considerable decrease. In the fall of 1816, he was returned to the same circuit,
                    where there was a farther decrease. Before he entered on the work of this year, he visited 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     to enjoy for a few days the society of his friends with whom he had labored two years
                    before. Here he had a severe and protracted fever, which threatened his life. After this sickness he
                    never had that fair skin and healthy appearance which he had before. An incident occurred toward the
                    latter part of his sickness, which showed his dead-ness to the world, and his trust in divine 
                        Providence
                    . The horses which he and his wife rode, got out of the stable and strayed off. Brother
                    Dunn's family with whom he stayed, and other friends, after making an unsuccessful search
                    for the horses seemed quite uneasy about them. He said in a mildly chiding way, "Why are
                    you so uneasy about the horses? All the horses in the world belong to the Lord, and he will give me
                    just as many as I need." I will mention another subsequent period, when I was in company
                    with him. His horse had escaped and strayed away; but he seemed perfectly calm, and he borrowed
                    another animal to go home, and to his work. Some person said, "Brother Strange, are you
                    going without your horse?" He replied, "There are hundreds of persons here who can
                    hunt a horse as well as I can, who cannot preach  one word; and
                    I shall go to my work." From White Oak he went to Mad River circuit as
                    junior preacher, John Sale, mentioned often before, being in charge; and he was continued on the
                    circuit the next year. So far as I know, nothing of note occurred in these two years. From the
                    summer of 1819 until sometime in 1821, he was on 
                        Union
                     circuit, which then embraced 
                  Lebanon,
                            Dayton
               , Xenia, and all the intermediate
                    country. Sometime in the latter year James B. Finley went to the Indian mission, on Sandusky,
                    leaving the 
                        Lebanon
                     district without a presiding elder, when the bishop sent Strange to the district. In
                    the fall of 1821, Finley was continued on the mission, and Strange on the district. What amount of
                    success he had on the district the year and upwards he was on it, I do not know; but from his known
                    popularity he was doubtless well received by the people. In the fall of 1822, Finley was returned to
                    the district, and Strange appointed to Mil-ford circuit. Being on a contiguous circuit, I met him
                    frequently this year, and know something of the state of his mind which was rather gloomy from two
                    causes. His health was bad, and his removal from the eldership, which he had not sought, caused him
                    to have a time of much depression of spirit. He was tempted to think some of his brethren dealt
                    unkindly with him. As might be expected, under such circumstances, there was a decrease, but not a
                    very large one. In the fall of 1823, he was placed on the 
                        Miami
                     district partly in 
                        Ohio
                     and partly in Indiana, where he passed well, and was useful. The district remained in
                    its then form only one year, as the General conference made the line between 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana the dividing line between the 
                        Ohio
                     and the 
                        Illinois
                     conferences, and Strange preferred going to Indiana, where he remained all his days,
                    and where his labors have been detailed in former numbers. In the spring or summer of 1832 his
                    health became so bad that he became unable to preach. He was so feeble in April, that he was not
                    able to go to the General conference to which he had been elected at the preceding annual
                    conference. He was not able to attend the first Indiana conference, which met in 
                        New Albany
                     in October, 1832, when he was placed on the superannuated list, to be no more
                    effective; for he died on the 2d of December in peace, and with an assurance of future happiness;
                    and his body now sleeps lonely and  silently in the old
                    grave-yard near 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he lived at the time of his death, and where he left his widow and orphans.
                    Never shall I forget the feelings which I had in 1833, when brother Wilkins and myself went and set
                    up his grave-stone. Everything seemed so calm and quiet that the place appeared a desirable retreat
                    from the cares, anxieties, labors, pains, and disappointments of life.
            Having detailed the labors of this brother, which were something over twenty-two years from the time
                    he was employed by the venerable Quinn, I would uow portray the man if I could; but this I must do
                    imperfectly.
            In his person, he was tall and slender, but remarkably erect, even on horseback (and he seldom
                    traveled any other way), only in his feeble state in his latter years, when he sat with his back and
                    shoulders rather crooked. His neck was long and slender, which will in part account for his
                    wonderful voice. Prior to his sickness at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , he was very fair skinned, with black hair and blue eyes. His features and countenance
                    were very agreeable; and cheerfulness was generally depicted in his face. I once heard Dr. Ruter
                    (who had heard most of the eminent speakers east and west) say Strange had decidedly the best voice
                    he ever heard. He could elevate it without much effort, so as to be heard distinctly twenty or
                    thirty rods, and retain all its music. He could sing, or pray, or preach any length of time he
                    pleased without becoming in the least degree hoarse. Such was the attraction of his voice and
                    manner, that when he would ascend the stand at a camp meeting, many, who were scattered through the
                    surrounding woods, have been known to run with speed to get on the camp ground to hear him. He knew
                    nothing about the rudiments of singing as a science, but he could sing better without science than
                    most men could with it. He sang the hymn, beginning: 
                        Sinners, turn, why will ye die?
                     one afternoon in the old stone church in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , when the conference met there in the summer of 1819, with a new chorus to it, in such
                    a manner that none who were present will forget it, I presume, while life and memory last. The same
                    may be said of his first public prayer at 
                        Charlestown
                    ,  when the conference met there in 1825. He was
                    conscious of the power of his voice; for he once said to me, when he was flighty with fever,
                    "Brother Wiley, when I was well I could throw all the strength of my whole body in my
                    mouth; I mean in my voice."
            I have stated that he was powerfully converted; and during his whole life his religious feelings were
                    of an excited kind, except when he was feeble and somewhat pensive. I do not know that he ever
                    professed the blessing of perfect love in a distinct manner, unless he did so in his last protracted
                    illness; but he had deep communion with God, and strong consolations.
            His education was by no means systematic and thorough; but he was a good reader, and read, and
                    studied, and labored hard to improve himself, in everything calculated to make him useful. Perhaps
                    he labored with more diligence to improve himself in language than anything else. One of the books
                    which he carried in his saddle-bags, when I first knew him, was Walker's octavo dictionary,
                    which he studied closely. This will account for his almost endless store of words to express the
                    conceptions of his mind. His great attention to choice words sometimes made his style too florid and
                    inflated to suit the gravity, simplicity, and dignity of the pulpit. He could not be regarded as a
                    close and profound thinker, yet he well understood the orthodox doctrines of the Bible, and was able
                    to preach them to the edification of thousands, who were the delighted attendants on his ministry.
            The leading traits of his mind were imagination and feeling. Sometimes his imagination would soar and
                    tower until his hearers would be carried up, up, until they would be giddy, and hardly know where
                    they were, and then for want of a finished education, and good mental training, and correct taste,
                    he would drop them all at once, and stun them by the fall. Sometimes he would employ metaphoric
                    representations with wonderful effect. Once he was preaching on the love of God, and compared it to
                    an ocean, and then he endeavored to sound it with a line. After he had been letting down his line he
                    became most impassioned, and cried out at the top of his shrill voice, "More line! More
                    line!" and the effect was to  enrapture and convulse
                    the whole congregation on the camp ground, while they seemed lost in wonder and adoration at the
                    unfathomable depths of God's love to a lost world.
            With all the astonishing power of his eloquence, he might have been more successful, if it had not
                    been for some great defects in his sermons. Sometimes, in his most glowing and impassioned strains,
                    when the whole audience was greatly moved, he would stoop to queer and witty sayings, which had no
                    dignity in them, and which would fill the minds and hearts of the hearers with levity, so that the
                    man of true taste would be ready to exclaim, "There is only a step from the sublime to the
                    ridiculous." These witty sayings, however, seemed to be so spontaneous and natural to
                    brother Strange, that they did not produce that disgust which they would do in a man who seems to
                    labor hard to be witty. I mention these things as a warning to others, that they may not tread on
                    dangerous ground; for wit does not belong to the gravity and dignity of the Gospel of the weeping
                    Jesus. This brother's industry, as a preacher, was uncommon. He loved to preach; and as a
                    proof of it, I will just say, that in the stormy month of March he preached thirty times, when he
                    was on the 
                        Madison
                     district, when in feeble health. This was a pretty fair specimen of the man when in
                    health. Had not the God of heaven given him such a wonderful voice, his feeble frame could not have
                    endured such hard labor; and as it was, he went beyond his strength and induced disease, and brought
                    on premature death; for he was only forty-four years old when he died. He regretted his excessive
                    labors in his latter days, but then they could not be recalled.
            The church has lost few men who were more fully devoted to her interests, and more intent on doing
                    his duty. His marriage, like some other young ministers' was rather premature, having taken
                    place at the close of his second year, or the beginning of the third. The marriage, in itself, was a
                    good one; for he married the daughter of a good local preacher, who had trained his children in the
                    ways of religion and Methodism from their infancy. His wife was always willing to conform to the
                    circumstances which surrounded her as the wife of a traveling preacher. The preachers and the
                    preachers' wives  of the present day know nothing of
                    the privations of the days which are gone by. The former cheerful sister Strange is now the cheerful
                    wife of John H. Thompson, secretary of state for Indiana. When brother Strange was first married, he
                    felt a disposition to go home from distant appointments on the circuit, which would take him away
                    from his people and his work; but he said to himself this will never do, and he resolved that his
                    early marriage should not injure his usefulness, and he kept his resolution as long as he lived. He
                    had a kind heart, and loved his wife and children; but I have heard him say when he lived in 
                        Madison
                    , that if he had been gone a month, and was descending the big hill in the rear of the
                    town, and if he were convinced that duty so required he would cheerfully turn back and remain
                    another month in active work without any regrets. Perhaps there are few men over whom duty has so
                    strong control, as to use the same language that he did. At one time in his life he had the
                    misfortune to have a colleague, whom he greatly admired, who was exceedingly volatile, and much
                    given to jesting and romance. To some extent he imbibed the spirit and aped the manners of his
                    senior brother; but he happily recovered himself, to a great degree, from this great evil and became
                    a man of becoming gravity, but never gloomy when in health. He was always witty, but he did not seem
                    to hunt for wit, but it came uncalled for. On one occasion he had been baptizing some persons near
                    Vernon by immersion, and as he came out of the water, a man in the company who held that mode so
                    tenaciously as to exclude all other modes said, with great emphasis, "Ye must be born of
                    the water," meaning ye must be immersed, when Strange said partly in pleasant humor and
                    partly in sarcasm, "Then you will be the son of a creek," meaning that, in that
                    case, the creek must be the mother.
            With few exceptions, he was the darling of the preachers, traveling and local, as well as of the
                    people when he was an districts. I say with few exceptions, but there were some, for when he did
                    reprove, it was sometimes with uncalled for severity, and on some occasions with unfortunate and
                    invidious comparisons. Once, at a camp meeting, he reproved some rude fellows with great severity
                    and said he was glad he lived  in 
                        Jefferson
                     and not in 
                        Ripley county
                    , as these ruffians belonged to the latter county; but unfortunately for him the
                    ruffians had come from 
                        Jefferson county
                    , and misbehaved in 
                        Ripley
                    . The people in and out of the church in 
                        Ripley
                     were so displeased, that they did not want him any more for their minister. From this
                    fact, we should learn not to make invidious comparison between different parts of the country in our
                    bounds, for the people everywhere are jealous of the honor of their country.
            I have said he was an intense student at an early period of his ministry, and he so continued as long
                    as he was able to read and study; but there was a great change in the matter of his reading. In his
                    latter years he read only a few books, except the Bible, and these few were mostly the lives of
                    great and good men, that he might learn from them how to live piously, and how to die peacefully.
                    These lessons he did learn well, for when death came he was prepared to go in peace and with
                    resignation.
            I have said he was dead to this world, and perhaps he was so to a fault; for he made little or no
                    arrangement for his family to have a home when he should be taken away from them, and this was to
                    him a matter of regret when he was near his end; but as he had always trusted in 
                        Providence
                    , the Lord provided for the widow and orphans, for a number of the preachers who had
                    greatly loved him, made collections and bought the widow a home in 
                        Indianapolis
                     where she lived comfortably in her widowhood, until she obtained a protector for
                    herself and children in the person of her present kind husband.
            In conclusion, I may say, such was the vivid impressions made on the minds of many that few men have
                    lived so long in the memories and hearts of the people of Indiana as John Strange. At the conference
                    after his death, the writer of this sketch, at the request of the conference, preached a funeral
                    discourse to present to the preachers and people the excel. lencies of the deceased brother. The
                    text was, "Be thou faithful unto death; and I will give thee a crown of life."
                    This text was truly exemplified in the life of our brother; for he was faithful in his endeavors to
                    obtain all the knowledge and  grace which were requisite to make
                    him a good and useful man, and then he was faithful in using his acquirements in promoting the
                    welfare of his fellow-beings.
            Such was the popularity of Strange, that it is not to be wondered at that some of his admirers among
                    the young preachers should be led insensibly to ape him; but the attempt was an utter failure. The
                    most utter disgust which I ever witnessed at a very good sermon was an attempt, as the people
                    thought, to imitate their former elder. Hundreds of the people retired to their tents in great
                    dissatisfaction, and many of them next day said, "We are willing to have Strange in person,
                    but to have him second-hand we are not willing." From this fact all should learn not to
                    pattern after any man's voice and manner; for they will be like David when he had
                    Saul's armor on, it will not fit.
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , October 1, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, October 16, 1846.
            No. XXXV
            The prominent part acted by James Armstrong in the progress of Methodism in Indiana demands for him a
                    more detailed notice than I have presented in former numbers. 
                        Ireland
                     was the country of his nativity, where he was born in 1787 or 1788. His parents came to 
                        America
                     while James was but a child. He early became a wild, rude boy, and his pious mother
                    would follow him to the theatre, in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and take him home much against his inclination. I have heard him say that such were
                    his wild and reckless habits that when he was awakened and wanted to join the church, there was
                    great hesitancy about receiving him on trial; but one worthy old brother said he would go the
                    boy's security, and the church concluded to give him a fair trial. This was when he was
                    about seventeen years old. The account of him in the Minutes, volume second, page
                    344, says he was licensed to preach in 
                        Baltimore
                     in 1812, but I am sure that account is very incorrect,  or my memory is greatly at fault in remembering his statements to me.
                    That account will make him twenty-four or five years old when he began to preach, and will make him
                    to have been a church member seven or eight years. It is my firm conviction, from his own
                    statements, that he married while quite young in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and that he began to preach before he was married; for he once told me and others,
                    that he was in the pulpit preaching when she, who was afterward his wife, and is now his widow, came
                    into the congregation, and to use his own words borrowed from the romance, "Thinks I to
                    myself, my heart bumped so that I determined to get married and have done with that
                    trouble." He went into business in 
                        Baltimore
                     and kept a shoe store or shop. He was a remarkably fast workman, but he did not prosper
                    in his business, and that is not to be wondered at; for his zeal and popularity led him to neglect
                    his business to attend popular and camp meetings far and near, in 
                  Maryland, Virginia, Delaware, Pennsylvania
               , and perhaps some other states; and this he did for years in
                    succession. He could not have been a very strong and talented sermonizer in that day; but for
                    exhortation, and ability in managing religious meetings in times of excitement, few, if any,
                    excelled him. After being unfortunate in business, he removed to the west in 1821, and settled in 
                        New Albany
                    , Indiana; and in the fall of the same year he joined the 
                        Missouri
                     conference on probation, and was appointed to 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, where he traveled two years, as related in former numbers. One of those years,
                    if I am not mistaken, he had for a colleague Samuel Hull, now a local preacher living near Honey
                    Creek, below 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Hull was employed by the presiding elder and afterward joined the traveling
                    connection, and traveled a few years and located. If it had not escaped my recollection, I would
                    have mentioned these facts in their proper place. I have before stated that his success on this
                    circuit was very great, especially the first year, when there was an increase of more than three
                    hundred. At the end of the second year, he was ordained elder (for he was a deacon when he commenced
                    traveling) and appointed to 
                        Bloomington
                     circuit, where he had great success; for the circuit arose from four hundred and one to
                    six hundred and five,  being an increase of two hundred and four
                    in what was then a new country. At the close of this year he was placed on the Indiana district, as
                    the successor of the devout and talented Beauchamp. The district then went from near 
                        Madison
                     on the Ohio River, and 
                        Bloomington
                     between the White River and the 
                        Vermillion
                     over the 
                        Wabash
                    , down to the extreme southwest point of Indiana. If any man will look on a good map of
                    Indiana, and consider the state of the roads and of the country in general in 1824, he will say
                    Armstrong had "hard times and plenty of them." He, however, moved with rapidity
                    and zeal through his extensive field. At the close of his first year, the district was curtailed on
                    the west, and extended no more on the 
                        Wabash
                    , unless 
                        Crawfordsville
                     circuit extended to it, so as to embrace Covington, Attica, and 
                        Lafayette
                    , and parts farther up the river; for 
                        Crawfordsville
                     circuit was now the northern limit of the district. On this district he labored with
                    zeal and success far four years at the end of which time he was placed at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , as I have before stated. The next year he was on 
                        Crawfordsville
                     circuit, which was then a large and heavy field, and he became somewhat discouraged;
                    but he had an increase of more than fifty members, among whom may be numbered Dr. Caughill, a local
                    deacon, who now lives in the western part of 
                        Ohio
                    , and lived last winter in 
                        Boston
                    , Indiana. The following year he was appointed to the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     district, which then embraced all the 
                        Wabash
                     country north of 
                        Parke county
                    , Indiana, and 
                  Paris, Illinois
               , except Mississineway and 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . The district embraced the Iroquois and 
                        South Bend
                     missions on the north and 
                        Indianapolis
                     station and contiguous circuits on the south. In 1832, Indiana was made a separate
                    conference, and there was farmed a missionary district in north Indiana, and he was placed on it.
                    The next year the district was enlarged on the south and east, and called the Northwestern district,
                    and he was appointed to it. The district embraced a considerable scope of country in the southwest
                    part of 
                        Michigan
                     as that part was separated from the eastern part of the state by a wilderness, and was
                    hard to reach from that part. Near the close of this year he finished his labors and sufferings, for
                    he died at his own home near Laporte, in 
                  Laporte county,
                            Ia.
               ,  September 12th, 1834, being forty-seven or forty-eight years old and thirteen years a traveling
                    preacher, according to the account in the Minutes; but as I have good reason to
                    suppose that account incorrect, I suppose he was a preacher between twenty-five and thirty years. I
                    have never been informed about his state of mind during his sickness by any person who was with him,
                    but I have been told he did not talk much while he was sick, but what he did say gave his friends to
                    understand that he was reconciled to die.
            Brother Armstrong had a very sprightly mind, which was capable of much improvement. He was also a man
                    of considerable and various reading, so that he was capable of being an able preacher. He had,
                    however, but little system in his literary pursuits. He had a memory to retain almost all he read,
                    but he did not properly digest the abundant matter which he read over in his cursory way. He had,
                    however, but little system in his literary pursuits. He had made himself well acquainted with the
                    operations and history of the church to which he belonged, and was prepared to entertain his hearers
                    with an endless account of statistics, and with an exhaustless store of anecdotes. He usually
                    studied his sermons well, and in his introduction and plan presented a good frame-work; and the
                    intelligent hearer would promise himself a real intellectual feast, for the early part of his
                    sermons would authorize him to expect such a feast; but as almost all his preaching was aimed for
                    present effect, he would suffer himself to become excited, and then system and arrangement were
                    thrown to the winds, and he would follow his impulses whithersoever they would drive him. In this
                    case, what the hearer lost in intellectual enjoyment he had made up to him in a flow of impassioned
                    feeling. Sometimes, however, he would restrain his impetuosity and preach sermons of much ability,
                    especially when he saw a necessity to defend any doctrine and usage of the church; for he loved the
                    church, her doctrines and usages most intensely, and he was ready to defend them at all times.
            When I first became acquainted with him, our constitutional biases and our views on many things, were
                    so very different that we were not much enjoyment to each other; but after a better acquaintance it
                    was otherwise.
            
            There was an apparent precipitancy about him in his connection with the affairs of the church that a
                    man of settled plans of operations could not approve. His failings in these things were the result
                    of his ardent desire to advance what he deemed the cause of God, and the best interests of souls. At
                    quarterly and camp meetings he did not usually preach much, but he would tax his brethren to the
                    utmost of their talents and strength and then he would manage the work in the altar to a great
                    advantage, and in this way he would breathe a living soul into the dry bones; for it was not easy
                    for a dry preacher to be dry when associated with Armstrong. That he was the instrument of bringing
                    many superficial Christians and unstable souls into the church, none who knew his manner of
                    operation can doubt; but he was also the instrument of bringing many valuable men into the fold who
                    have adorned their profession for many years, and many of them are safely landed and will be stars
                    in his crown in the day of, his rejoicing. He was not so eloquent and popular as some men in the
                    ministry, but he had more seals to his ministry than most men, and he was not wanting in eloquence
                    and popularity, especially the latter.
            During the most of this brother's life if he and his family had food and raiment for the
                    present time he seemed contented, and appeared to have no anxieties about the future for himself and
                    family. The year he was stationed at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , I went with him to one of his country appointments, and on our return we had a long
                    and serious conversation about the prospects of our families if we should be called away, when I
                    urged upon him the impropriety of making no provision for his family after his decease. He rode
                    along some time in silence and thoughtfulness, and I saw the conversation made an impression on his
                    mind, and shortly after he made a purchase of land in the 
                        Wabash
                     country, and moved his family to it, while he finished his year at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . When the men went from Indiana to what was called the Black Hawk war, he went with
                    them, but I do not know in what capacity, for he was neither volunteer nor chaplain; but I suppose
                    he went to gratify his curiosity. He left the General conference a short time before its close, and
                    hurried home, and stayed but a short time, and started on this apparently  wild trip, but which proved to his family a trip under the direction of
                    Divine 
                        Providence
                    . In this excursion he saw the excellency of north Indiana; and when he came home he
                    sold his land in the 
                        Wabash
                     country, and made a purchase near Laporte, and made some improvement on the land, and
                    then sold it at an advance, and purchased another tract of land still more valuable, at a moderate
                    price; for such was the estimation in which he was held by the community that no person would bid
                    against him, so that he obtained it at government price. This land made a good home for his widow
                    and children, where they lived a number of years in comfort. Although the widow was reared in the
                    city, and had no knowledge of agriculture, yet when she was left alone she turned her attention to
                    this subject, so as to plan matters well, and made a good living. She has now moved to 
                        Greencastle
                    , for the purpose of educating her children.
            In his person, Armstrong was neat and tidy. He had a dark, heavy eyebrow, and was rather
                    dark-skinned. He was about medium in his stature, and well formed, and had the appearance of great
                    muscular power. When he walked, his step was quick and sprightly; but he was not so strong in body
                    as his appearance would seem to indicate. For many years he wore a wax plaster on his breast.
                    Sometimes he was a little singular in his dressing, for I have known him in what I would deem
                    pleasant September weather, wear flannel next his flesh, and over that his linen, then two or three
                    handkerchiefs round his neck, a warm vest lined with flannel, flannel drawers, and cassinet
                    pantaloons, a good cloth coat, two pair of yarn socks, a strong pair of boots and overshoes, a
                    handkerchief round his head and ears under his hat, and over the whole a camlet cloak. Such was his
                    dress when we left Ed-wardsville in the fall of 1829, when some of us were oppressed with the heat
                    with our ordinary clothing. He, however, anticipated a heavy rain-storm which came on us before we
                    arrived at home. In the settled cold weather in the winter, he did not wear so much clothing, as he
                    did not deem himself in so much danger as to health.
            In his social intercourse with his friends, he was most cheerful and full of innocent humor. While I
                    write, I seem to see him in the circle of his friends, and his whole soul and  body seem full of animation and enjoyment, and then before they part
                    how fervently he prays that God may bless them.
            Armstrong was a very witty man, and used his wit to great advantage in confounding self-conceited
                    skeptics and opposers of religion. Whatever he did was done with all his might. Even his traveling
                    was with great rapidity. He had for many years a brown horse which he called Levi. This horse was a
                    wonderful traveler, and carried his owner sixty or seventy miles in a day more than once. He rode
                    Levi fast, but he fed and nursed him well, so that he lasted eight years after I knew him. Whether
                    Levi or his owner died first, I do not know. If the owner lived longer than Levi, I presume he wept
                    when he parted with a faithful servant which had borne so heavy a share in the toils of his master.
                    I should think but little of the goodness and piety of any man's heart who could part with
                    such a horse without painful and deep emotion. What, to be carried thousands of miles in almost all
                    parts of Indiana, and several parts of 
                        Illinois
                    , and to 
                        Baltimore
                     and back again, and to hundreds of appointments by so faithful a friend, and then part
                    with him without feeling? Shame on the man that could do it. Such was not the heart of Armstrong.
            The year Armstrong died, Locke and Griffith also died, and at the ensuing conference the sermon of
                    Bishop Roberts, at the request of the conference, was devoted to honorable mention of the worthy
                    dead. When the bishop came to speak of Armstrong, he called him "my friend James
                    Armstrong," as there had been great intimacy between them. The friends now both sleep in
                    death, the one near Laporte, the other in the University Square at 
                        Greencastle
                    , whither he was brought nearly one hundred miles by an arrangement of the preachers of
                    the Indiana conference, before it was divided, and where they have erected a monument of Indiana
                    material. This monument will call the attention of many visitors in years to come, especially when
                    Bishops Morris and Hamline shall have furnished a suitable inscription, and the workman shall have
                    placed it on the monument with his chisel. This monument with the full size portrait of the bishop
                    procured by the same preachers and placed in the University chapel, will long tell  what Bishop Roberts was in body and mind. On the same square, toward
                    the southeast corner, there is another similar monument, erected by the contributions of the
                    students, on which are engraved the names of all the students who have died while they were
                    attending the University. O, what emotions this monument produced in my heart last July, while I
                    read the names of several young men who died from home and among strangers, and the earthly
                    prospects of themselves and their friends blighted.
            Doubtless many hearts, in different parts of Indiana, will be excited while these lines, which
                    imperfectly portray Armstrong, are read, as they will bring to mind the man who was made a blessing
                    to hundreds of them. I wrote a sketch of this brother more than eleven years ago, but the copy which
                    I had among my papers is lost, or I would have interwoven it into this number for republication, as
                    it expresses some things more to my liking than this account does.
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , October 1, 1846.
            
               Western Christina Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, October 23, 1846.
            No. XXXVI
            I believe Russel Bigelow was a native of some part of 
                        New England
                     but when he was young his father moved to 
                        Canada
                    , where he lived some years. Whether Russel was converted in 
                        Canada
                    , or after his return to the 
                        United States
                    , I do not know. A daughter of the Rev. John Langdon (mentioned in the early number of
                    this series) told me that a Fourth of July address delivered by her father was the means of
                    awakening him. If this be the fact, I suppose it must have been after his return to this country;
                    for I suppose they would have no use for Fourth of July orations in 
                        Canada
                    ; but where he really lived, and when he was converted, I do not know, but I suppose he
                    was quite young, for my understanding has always been that he became religious while he  was quite a boy. His parents were religious, and taught Russel the
                    importance of religion.
            While our brother was yet young, his father moved to 
                        Ohio
                    , somewhere, I think, northeast of 
                        Urbana
                    , but how far from that place I do not know, as I have no personal knowledge of the
                    geography of that section of the country.
            At what time he commenced preaching I am not informed, but he commenced traveling in the fall of
                    1814, which must have been in his twenty-second year, according to the account of him in the Minutes, volume second, page 404. His first appointment was to Hinkstone circuit
                    in the central part of 
                        Kentucky
                    . This year he was associated with two most excellent men; for he had the good and
                    talented Samuel Parker for his presiding elder, and the amiable William Dixon for his senior
                    preacher on the circuit. How he succeeded his first year is now unknown to me. The Minutes report a heavy decrease on the circuit and I infer it was not in consequence of
                    any transfer of appointments in the same district; for there was a heavy decrease on the district.
                    This proves that "the race is not always to the swift, and the battle to the
                    strong." The mischievous effects of the war were not over, and this may account for the
                    decrease. The second year of his itinerancy was with the good and useful Alexander Cummins on the 
                        Miami
                     circuit, which embraced all the country between the two Miamis some twenty-five miles
                    from the Ohio river. On this circuit there was an increase of nearly two
                    hundred in the membership. As Cummins was in feeble health, it is presumed that Bigelow was the
                    principal instrument of this increase.
            The next three years he was in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and 
                        Oxford
                     circuits where his labors have been detailed. In the summer of 1819, he and old brother
                    Robert Finley were appointed to Mad River circuit, where there was an increase
                    of only ten in the membership. The next year the Minutes place him on the 
                        Columbia
                     circuit, which I suppose to be a typographical error for 
                        Columbus
                    , for in the place in the Minutes where the numbers are taken, the
                    circuit is called 
                        Columbus
                    , so that he was two years on the same circuit. In this year there was an increase of
                    nearly one hundred. From all I have been able  to learn, he was
                    very acceptable and popular the two years he was on the circuit. In the fall of 1822 he was
                    appointed to White Water circuit where his labors have been detailed. The next year he was stationed
                    at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . This was a year of peculiar difficulty in that station, as the Radical controversy was
                    in its zenith; but the mildness of his spirit saved him from falling under the indignation and
                    resentment of those with whom he differed in opinion on church government, and whom he opposed with
                    great firmness. There was a very small increase this year, and how could there be much when the
                    pastors and leaders of the people were more given to debate than prayers and exhortations? Upon the
                    whole, his appointment to the city was not the best for his enjoyment and usefulness; for his manner
                    did not suit the taste of the city so well as some other places.
            September, 1824, he was appointed to 
                        Union
                     circuit, mentioned many times before as embracing 
                  Lebanon, Dayton
               , Xenia, and all the
                    intermediate country. Here he had two colleagues, and they had good success; for they had an
                    increase of two hundred and thirty-six.
            In the fall of 1825 he was appointed to the Scioto district, which was then large in territory,
                    embracing nine charges. Here he continued two years, and labored with great zeal, popularity, and
                    success. In the fall of 1827 he was appointed to the Sandusky Indian mission. This appointment was
                    to him a very unfortunate one. He had now been thirteen years a traveling preacher, and had wholly
                    given himself to preaching and pastoral duties; but in the mission he had comparatively little
                    ministerial work, but much hard, bodily labor, which did his constitution much and permanent harm.
                    He wrote me that he was never the same man in mind and body after he left the mission. For years he
                    had, in some small degree, suffered under internal derangement of the viscera and a consequent
                    lethargy which was confirmed this year, and continued with him until death. At the close of the year
                    on the mission, he was appointed to the 
                        Portland
                     district, in the north of 
                        Ohio
                    , where he continued four years. He wrote me that Methodism had not so firm a footing
                    there in that day as it had in south 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana; but I presume it lost no  ground under
                    the talents and powerful labors of the presiding elder. At the conference, at the close of his four
                    years on the district, the preachers on the district met together, and purchased a valuable lever
                    watch, which they presented him as a mark of their love and respect for him. I fancy I can see his
                    meek countenance and flowing tears while he received this testimonial of his brethren's
                    regard for him. In the fall of 1832 he was appointed to 
                        Columbus
                     station, where he stayed two years, one as preacher on the circuit, and one on the
                    station. The first year he was in the station he had fifty of an increase, and the second year
                    fifty-two of a decrease. In the fall of 1834 he had the most severe cross to bear which he had ever
                    borne, when his bad health made it necessary for him to receive a superannuated relation to the
                    conference.
            In the month of March, after he was superannuated, his health was so far restored as to be able to
                    perform the duties of chaplain to the 
                        Ohio
                     penitentiary. He entered on the duties of his important work with zeal and success, but
                    in the summer he was soon hurried to the grave by a severe bowel complaint, of which he died on the
                    first of July, 1835, in the forty-third year of his age.
            The reader who has followed this account from year to year and from place to place must be aware that
                    Russel Bige-low never had an easy appointment in his life, and if he had had such, it would not have
                    been an easy one to him; for such was his zeal that he would have worked hard anywhere. Hid sermons
                    were usually very long, and delivered with great rapidity, so that they contained much mental labor,
                    and were most laborious in their delivery. For several years in the latter part of his life, he
                    suffered very much in his body, and perhaps not much less in his mind. His bodily suffering and
                    weakness produced a morbid sensitiveness which was the occasion of great torture to his mind. The
                    last communication which I received from him was written sometime in 1834, if I remember eorrectly,
                    and contained five or seven closely written pages of common paper, he described his mental and
                    bodily suffering during several of the past years. If I had that communication, I would make several
                    extracts from it, but I have it not; for I sent it and some others and a short notice of my  own to H. O. Sheldon, at his request, who, as he stated to me,
                    was about preparing a life of brother Rigelow. Whether that life is in a course of preparation or is
                    abandoned, I do not know. Had a judicious life been written at that time, it would have been read
                    with great interest by many in the west.
            Had I the power to wield a graphic pen, I would like to portray in this number, my friend as he was
                    in body, mind and labors. He was a small man, and not handsome in form and features. I know not that
                    he had ever had a stroke of paralysis; but it is a fact, that when he walked he went with a long
                    step and a short one, and when he preached his mouth turned to one side ungracefully, and at almost
                    all times his teeth were more visible on one side than the other. In his early days, when he became
                    vehement in preaching, his eyes became fixed on the floor at an angle of about forty-five degrees
                    from his feet; and I presume he never saw his congregation afterward until he was done. When in that
                    attitude his words were poured forth just as fast as he could articulate them. I once heard my
                    father say that he sat and amused himself to see how fast he could talk and not bite his tongue. His
                    voice was rather unpleasant, and his gestures numerous and awkward, so that take him as a whole he
                    was an ungraceful speaker. The first time I ever saw him was in the fall of 1816. He had been
                    somewhat unwell at 
                        Madison
                    , and Mrs. M'Intire insisted that he should wear a pair of strong overshoes,
                    which made quite a noise when he walked over the puncheon floor in the brother's house
                    where he preached, especially as his paces were unequal, He had on a pretty large hat, for his head
                    required such, but the brim was narrow, and his little bottle-green coat had no buttons on it except
                    such as were for use. He had rolled up his overcoat with his umbrella in the center which he carried
                    in one hand, and his saddle-bags on the other arm; and his teeth showing plainly. If John Strange
                    and David Sharp had not been to my cabin on their way from conference, and assured me that we had a
                    good preacher, I should have felt much discouraged.
            No man can describe Bigelow as he was when I first knew him, and for some years afterward, without
                    describing his horse. The horse was a small black one, or rather dark brown,  whose name was Major. When he traveled briskly his gait was neither a
                    walk, trot, pace, or gallop, but a little of all of them. No other horse could keep company with him
                    in a trot or pace; for he went too fast for such gaits, and he did not go sufficiently fast for a
                    brisk gallop, so that he would tire down almost any other horse in a few miles travel. Well, now let
                    us mount the preacher on Major, and you behold a small, homely man, with a large head, and very blue
                    or gray eyes, on the little horse, sitting humped up on the shoulders where the mane was all worn
                    off close. The right hand held a cowhide, and the arm was extended at nearly a right angle with the
                    body, and at every step of the horse the cowhide moved as if it would come with force in
                    Major's flank; but, no, the tender heart of the rider could not do so cruel a deed. If the
                    rider had used spurs, you would have felt uneasy, for you would have feared poor Major's
                    sides would have felt them at every step, but in this you would have been mistaken, for they would
                    have been stopped just before they came in contact with the horse. This I know to be the fact, for
                    in the winter of 1817, Bigelow bought a pair of spurs, but he thought one was sufficient, and he
                    gave the other to the writer, so that here two preachers were traveling with one pair of spurs; but
                    they spurred their own boots and shoes and leggings more when they were walking than they did their
                    horses when they were riding, and they threw them away. Well, you see Bigelow mounted, and the
                    appointment is at twelve o'clock, for we never preached at any other hours unless it was on
                    the Sabbath, or when we had two appointments on the same day. How this became the practice I do not
                    know, unless it was because the rides were long and the people had no clocks or watches, but the
                    lines of the land surveyed by the government ran north and south, and everybody could tell on a
                    clear day when it was noon. The appointment is six or seven miles distant, and it is eleven
                    o'clock, and you will fear the people will be kept waiting in painful suspense; but no, for
                    Major and the rider are there at the time, and the latter in fine tune for an able and powerful
                    sermon, and a glorious class meeting after sermon, for this was never omitted in those days, when
                    men  worked hard every day all the year round; for they
                    generally preached as many sermons, and held as many class meetings as there were days in the year.
                    There was not so much pastoral visitation as is now required, or our circuits and stations would run
                    down, and our children and people backslide.
            Bigelow's mind was the reverse of his body, for it was of a superior cast. It was naturally
                    quick in its perceptions, and at the same time could penetrate deep into matters the most profound,
                    which is not common; for it is rare to find a man who has quickness of apprehension and profundity
                    of thought. This combination of rare powers, with a tenacious memory, prepared him to read, or
                    rather devour books with great facility. He, however, had no system of reading, but sometimes
                    burdened his mind with "an undigested motley meal." This was one of his matters of
                    lamentation in his last letter to me. He said if he had his time to go over again, with his then
                    views, he would be a better and a more systematic scholar. Had he trained his mind to literary and
                    scientific pursuits in his younger days, he would have been a rich scholar and a very scientific
                    man; and with his theological reading, had it been better digested, he would have been one of the
                    most able divines in the land. He was well read in all subjects which pertained to his peculiar
                    duties, and had a very thorough knowledge of the Bible and its able commentators. That reading which
                    did not tend directly to the knowledge and love of God, was not desired and pursued by him. Almost
                    every sermon delivered by him was a rich body of divinity, and calculated to instruct the wise and
                    the ignorant; and still he had a vast variety, so that he was new to the people whom he served for a
                    succession of years. Perhaps his strong fort was polemic divinity, which was forced upon the
                    Methodist preachers of that day. The brethren of the present age, who hardly ever hear their
                    orthodoxy called in question, have no conception of what the preachers of a former age had to
                    contend with in the early planting and establishment of Methodism in this country; but those times
                    have passed by, thanks to God.
            A man with a mind so sprightly and vigorous as Bigelow had, would have been in some danger of vanity,
                    "for knowledge  puffeth up," if his religious
                    feelings had not been such as they were. Humility, meekness, love and zeal were so well blended in
                    him that he was a most amiable and modest man. None but his most intimate friends knew how fervent
                    were his secret devotions, and how deep his communion with God. In his day there were not many who
                    made a profession of sanctification or perfect love, but I have no doubt but he enjoyed it at times
                    for years; and had there been as many to join with him and strengthen his hands as there are now in
                    a profession of that blessing he would have been a burning and shining witness that the blood of
                    Christ cleanses from all sin. I know that in the years of his bodily and mental sufferings, he
                    sometimes manifested a degree of sensitiveness and impatience which hardly seem compatible with such
                    high attainments in religious experience; but there was more of infirmity in these things than of
                    sinfulness, and God knew the strength of his temptations.
            Russel Bigelow was what might be called emphatically an honorable man. Whoever knew him to be guilty
                    of even the semblance of meanness? No, he was an open, frank man, who had no sinister designs. A man
                    of his quick wit and native shrewdness could have used trick, and have managed intrigue with great
                    adroitness; but such a thing as trick or intrigue, in connection with religious and church matters,
                    or any other matters, never entered his head or heart, for he had too much of honorable feeling,
                    apart from piety, to think of such a thing. The will of God was to him a sovereign rule, in all the
                    transactions in which he was concerned. With all his kindness of feeling, he would not swerve from
                    the path of duty to please the best friend in the world. "Justitia fiat, si
                        coelum ruat," let justice be done, though the heavens fall, was a maxim received
                    and acted on literally by him at all times.
            With his small and rather homely person, and the ungrace-fulness of his manner and voice, it would
                    seem impossible for him ever to become a popular preacher; but the ability and energy of his sermons
                    raised him above all his natural defects, and he became a popular preacher, and his popularity was
                    not of an ephemeral character, produced by a few fortuitous circumstances, and a few happy efforts,
                    but it was lasting as life itself.
            
            Like Strange and Armstrong, Bigelow set lightly by the things of this world, and never tried to
                    accumulate wealth; hence, when he approached the period of his end, he felt that he had not made
                    that provision for his family which was desirable; but he trusted them to the care of his heavenly
                    Father, whose kind providence has enabled the excellent and managing widow to maintain her family on
                    the little farm, which the husband and father procured before his departure from earth.
            If brother Thomson had not written so good an article for the Repository concerning
                    him I would have entered more into detail concerning his preaching powers, and the characteristics
                    of his sermons. His success in the ministry was very great, and there must be hundreds in heaven and
                    on earth who were converted to God by his instrumentality. If the writer has done any good in the
                    last thirty years, Bigelow has a large share in it, as he was chiefly instrumental in drawing him
                    out into the work at the time of his commencement. This was a source of consolation to him in his
                    decline of life, and he mentioned it to me very emphatically in his last communication to me.
            I am not disposed to make invidious comparison between the past and the present, but it is evident to
                    all who knew Russel Bigelow that there are few men among us now who possess so many excellences as
                    he, and who are doing so much good aq he did in his day.
            Reader, these last three numbers have presented to you three men of rare talents and usefulness. The
                    impress which they gave the church and the public was very great. Their praise was in all the
                    churches within the bounds of their labors, and they have left an influence which yet has its
                    operation on society. Hitherto, 
                        Providence
                     and grace have provided for the wants of the Methodist Episcopal Church in a wonderful
                    manner, and we hope will still provide.
            One more short number, giving some account of some useful local preachers, and the writer and his
                    readers may part forever in this kind of intercourse.
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , October 2, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, October 30, 1846.
            
            No. XXXVII
            Having noticed in these numbers, somewhat in extenso, several eminent and useful men, I feel
                    unwilling to pass over some others of less note, but who were useful in their day and deserve to be
                    had in remembrance by the church.
            Among the number who should be remembered, is John Morrow. His parents, Charles and Hannah, came from
                    oppressed 
                        Ireland
                     about the middle of the last century, and settled in the Redstone country, in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , where John was born, May 24th, 1766, a little more than ten years before the
                    declaration of American independence. From the newness of the country, and its contiguity to the
                    Indians in the western frontiers, the family must have endured many hardships, and been exposed to
                    many dangers during the Revolutionary war. At what time he moved from western to eastern 
                        Pennsylvania
                     I have not learned, but when he became experimentally religious, such removal had taken
                    place.
            His parents were poor, and not able to give him much education. One of his sons (William) writes me
                    that 
                        his parents were in very low circumstances, and the loss of his mother, and the consequent
                            introduction of a step-mother, prepared the way for a very severe raising in the later part
                            of his minority. He has often been heard to say that at this period of his history, in the
                            employ of a master, he was compelled to make his regular task of one hundred oak rails per
                            day, in hard winter weather, subsisting on the coarsest kind of food and not enough to
                            satisfy the cravings of hunger, and travel one mile to his work, dressed in a coarse shirt
                            and tow trousers, and was glad to have a tolerable pair of moccasins, without stockings, his
                            feet from the frost. He was thus thrown upon the cold charity of an avaricious world,
                            without even the means of a common education. What he obtained, was consequently the result
                            of self-improvement. His early religious sentiments were on the side of high-toned
                            Presbyterian Calvinism, and he was a member of that church until the year 1797, when,
                            according to a record remaining in an old family Bible (now in my possession), legibly
                            written by his own hand, he was converted to God. I have often heard him say, that he was
                            induced to go to a love-feast by a man by the name of Penwell, and that he entered the
                            meeting with strong and bitter prejudices against Methodism. The speaking exercises had not
                            proceeded far when he experienced great distress of soul. With his face upon his knees, and
                            the tears gushing from his eyes, he repeated the following words in prayer until relief came
                            from heaven  to his burdened soul. The words were,
                            "Lord, have mercy upon me! What shall I do?" While thus praying, he
                            experienced the blessed change, and simultaneously with it a complete and entire extinction
                            of all his rigid Calvinism. This meeting was held in what was called Bryan's
                            chapel, in the northeastern part of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            . In a very early period of his religious history he was licensed to preach, and
                            he was very punctual in filling his appointments. Being poor, and destitute of a horse to
                            ride, he would walk twenty-five miles through storm and mud, such was his zeal at that
                            period of his life. He received his first ordination at the hands of Bishop Asbury, and his
                            second, which was eleven years afterward, at the hands of Bishop Roberts.
                    
            
            After he came to the west his occupation was that of school-teaching, which he understood well, and
                    hundreds received the rudiments of their education from him. What he followed before he came west I
                    am not informed, but I presume it was teaching. It was in the fall of 1823 that I first became
                    acquainted with him in the 
                        Miami
                     country, where he taught school, and I soon found he was a superior man as an expounder
                    of God's word and its doctrines, but his ability was not properly appreciated by the
                    multitude, for he was never popular to the amount of his real talents. He subsequently moved to
                    Indiana, and was useful in the establishment of Methodism in the New Purchase, as the new country
                    west of White Water was called. Brother Morrow's preaching was almost exclusively of a
                    doctrinal cast, and was well calculated to confirm the church in the doctrines of truth, and to
                    convince and recover those who were seduced by delusive errors. None but such as were contemporary
                    with him are prepared to estimate his intrinsic worth: for none others know the difficulties with
                    which the Methodist Church had to contend in his day. It is true that appalling errors now present
                    themselves against the church, but they are not so formidable to the church in her strength, as the
                    errors of that day were to the church in her infancy.
            Brother Morrow became greatly increased in his religious feelings as age increased and his strength
                    declined, and his preaching was much more experimental and spiritual, and it was obvious to his
                    friends, and the brethren who knew him, that he was fast ripening for the mansions of bliss. He
                    continued to preach and attend preaching when he was no longer 
                    able to stand before his congregations. He remained calmly leaning on the everlasting arms, which
                    had sustained him so many years amid the cares and anxieties incident to one in moderate
                    circumstances, in rearing and educating a large family. He had the privilege to see his eleven
                    children converted to God before he died. I believe all who are living are now members of the church
                    in which they were reared. Two of them are ministers, one local and the other traveling.
            Two of his children and the companion of his cares and labors went before him to the paradise of God.
                    After the death of his wife he seemed more than ever dead to this world; and waited with calmness
                    but with strong desire, to depart and be with Christ. For months before his death, he would often
                    say he had a desire to go and be at rest in the rear of Bochim meeting-house, where his companion
                    was sleeping. He lived to a good old age, being in his seventy-fourth year, when he died in peace,
                    on the 4th of September, 1839; and his body now sleeps near Bochim meeting-house, in 
                        Franklin county
                    , Indiana, about two miles above Laurel.
            The experience of brother Morrow will show what a man of firmness and perseverence can do. The reader
                    has been informed that he had no early opportunities, and he was a poor man all his days; but with
                    all these disadvantages, he made himself a good English scholar and arithmetician, and very apt in
                    imparting instruction to the numerous children and young persons committed to his care, and by whom
                    they were taught the fundamental principles of a good education.
            Few men were better read in theology than John Morrow, and few men were better prepared to discuss
                    and defend the doctrines of the Gospel than he. He loved to preach, and was unhappy if he could not
                    find an open door for his ministry. He was the warm friend of the government of the Methodist
                    Episcopal church, and of the traveling preachers. Some of his happiest days were spent with brother
                    Strange and others in making short excursions on districts. He was a ready scribe, and was a good
                    secretary of quarterly conferences, when he would make his excursions with the presiding elders. His
                    fair hand-writing appears in many of the old journals, if they have been preserved; but the little
                    old warm-hearted  man is no more seen mingling in the
                    deliberations and councils of his junior brethren many of whom have joined him in heaven!
            In giving an account of Charles Hardy, I feel my incompetence to do justice to the man, and to
                    exhibit, in a proper manner, so much moral worth as was possessed by him. He was born in 
                        North Carolina
                    , June 25, 1765, so that he was nearly one year older than brother Morrow. Of his
                    parentage and early education I know nothing, as he has not left any information on these matters;
                    and all persons who could give the information have passed from this world. I suppose his mother was
                    a very pious woman, as I have often heard him speak of her in love-feast, and of her house as a
                    preaching-place in that early day. From his aged widow, I learn that he was converted in his natal
                    state about 1784 or 1785, so that he was nineteen or twenty years old when he became a devoted and
                    zealous Christian, and member of the Methodist Episcopal church. I suppose his convictions for sin
                    were deep, and his conversion powerful, in consequence of which an ardent zeal and untiring energy
                    characterized his whole ministry. As a general rule, those who are moderately convicted and
                    converted in a calm way, are apt to be very tame men in the discharge of ministerial duties; but
                    such as have felt in a strong manner, in the language of the Psalmist, the "pains of hell
                    getting hold of them," and been suddenly and powerfully delivered from those pains, are
                    more ardent in their ministrations. Judging the youth from what the old man was while I knew him, he
                    was uncommonly retiring and modest, yet soon felt he must appear before the world as an ambassador
                    for Christ. Doubtless he had to be thrust out into the work, or he would never have been a preacher,
                    especially a traveling preacher; for it required no small amount of moral courage to be such sixty
                    years ago, when there was but little honor and less of support to be obtained than now; and most of
                    the preachers of the present day do not find a redundancy of such things. But with all the
                    discouraging prospects before which he offered himself, and was received into the traveling
                    connection on trial in 1786, which, I think, was the same year that Dr. Clarke was received in 
                    
                        England
                    , and five years before the death of Mr. Wesley I suppose the conference by which he was
                    received met in the spring; but of this there is some uncertainty, as the conferences were then
                    known only by numbers, and not by names. His first appointment was to Halifax circuit. Whether this
                    Halifax was in 
                        North Carolina
                     or 
                        Virginia
                    , I do not know; for there are counties of this name in both states. I suppose, however,
                    his oppointments were in the former state. In 1787, his appointment was Mecklenburg circuit. As 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        North Carolina
                     have each a county of this name there is some uncertainty in which state he traveled
                    this year also; but I suppose in 
                        North Carolina
                    . On these circuits, especially the latter, he had much success in his ministry, and
                    many souls were powerfully converted to God, who will be stars in the crown of this venerable
                    brother. In 1788, he was received into full connection and ordained deacon, and appointed to Roanoke
                    circuit. Here again there is some uncertainty about the region of his labors; for as
                        Roanoke river is partly in 
                        Virginia
                     and partly in 
                        North Carolina
                    , I do not know whether the circuit named after it was in the former or latter state, or
                    partly in both. He was appointed to Tar River circuit in 
                        North Carolina
                     in 1789; and in 1790 he was ordained an elder, and appointed to a district. As the
                    districts were not then named, on the Minutes, it is hard to designate the metes
                    and bounds of his field of labor this year; but I suppose it was partly in each of the states before
                    named. He remained on the district only one year, or perhaps less than a year. In 1791, he was
                    appointed to New River circuit, where he was married in 
                  Wythe county, Virginia
               , March 6, 1791, four days after Wesley's death and about
                    nine months before he located, in the early part of the following December; for in that day marriage
                    and location were almost inseparably connected.
            He then settled in 
                  Grayson county, Virginia
               , where he lived three years when he moved to
                        Holston river, Washing-ton county, 
                        Virginia
                    , where he lived twelve years. He next moved to 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1807, and lived, from June until December, near Bedloes station in the vicinity of
                            
                  Lebanon, Warren
                    county
               . He then settled on the 
                        Great Miami
                    , about thirteen  miles below 
                        Dayton
                    , where he lived nine years. In the fall of 1816, he moved to Indiana, and settled three
                    miles from 
                        Brookville
                    , where he continued four years and a half, when he moved to Garrison creek, 
                        Fayette county
                    , where he lived twelve years. He then went to his former residence near 
                        Brookville
                    , and remained one year, when he came to the place where he finally ended his days, and
                    remained there six years, and then removed to 
                        Decatur county
                    , where he lived one year and a half, and then returned to his place east of White
                    Water, where he lived five years, and then died in great peace, with a good prospect of future
                    bliss. God granted him the privilege of closing his pilgrimage on Sabbath, July 5th, 1846, fifteen
                    minutes before twelve o'clock, being eighty-one years and ten days old. The hour at which
                    he died was one which had been occupied by him for many years in preaching the Gospel, and at which
                    time he was usually about half through his sermons.
            The reader, who has noticed his many removals, may think he was a fickle-minded man, but this was not
                    the case; for few men ever had more stability and fixedness of purpose than Charles Hardy. His
                    removals seemed to be Providential; for in almost every place where he lived, he proved a great
                    blessing to his neighbors. I remember when I traveled White Water circuit in 1818–19,
                    brother Hardy used to visit his neighbors on Sunday mornings to talk with them on the subject of
                    religion, and he urged me to have an appointment at his house in the evening after preaching at the
                    stated preaching place in the day time, and that evening was a blessed time; for an old man
                    continued faithful a number of years, and then went home to rest; and the son, if in the land of the
                    living, I trust is on his way. None who were not present on that occasion can form an estimate of
                    brother Hardy's joy and rejoicing to witness the conversion of his neighbors, whose minds
                    had been turned to the subject of religion by his Sabbath morning conversations, and prayers.
                    Brother Shields, now of 
                        Connersville
                    , told me that when he lived near brother Hardy, on Garrison creek, it was his custom to
                    spend the Sabbath mornings, before starting to his appointments, in going to see the people at their
                    homes, to talk with them on  the subject of religion and to pray
                    with them, when permitted to do so. While this excellent man was a traveling preacher, he had many
                    and glorious revivals under his ministry; and after his location he was instrumental in the
                    awakening and conversion of many souls. This brother was not a man of superior talents, but his
                    preaching exhibited a good, sound mind, somewhat improved. His preaching was of the plain,
                    experimental, practical, and useful kind, and usually calculated to interest a congregation. The
                    fall, wickedness and lost estate of man, his redemption by Christ, his conversion and holy living,
                    his triumphant death and glorified state in heaven, formed the main outlines of his sermons; but
                    these themes were so varied, that the people did not become tired with the sameness and want of
                    variety, which we sometimes witness. Every person who heard him preach felt that he was listening to
                    an honest man, who was not preaching for show, but for effect. I think it will be a moderate
                    calculation to suppose that during his ministry of more than sixty years, he preached between six
                    and seven thousand sermons, nearly all of which were preached with zeal and considerable effect.
                    Hundreds, perhaps thousands of souls are now in glory, who will acknowledge him as the instrument of
                    their salvation.
            Brother Hardy was a very taciturn, quiet man, who lived in peace and union with his brethren and
                    fellow-citizens. If he ever had any difficulty with any of them, it was unknown to me; and I was
                    acquainted with him (and part of the time intimately) more than thirty years. With all his silence
                    and gravity, he was not censorious of those who were more given to cheerful and innocent hilarity
                    than he was. When I first knew him, his solemn gravity rather awed me, and made me feel in a
                    constrained and embarrassed condition; but when I knew him better, I enjoyed his society very much.
                    It was a pleasure to me to converse with him about the "days of other years." To
                    converse with a man who had been a preacher more than three years before I was born, was a great
                    privilege and one which I shall never enjoy again until I meet the fathers in another world. When I
                    first traveled White Water circuit, there was another local preacher, who was an older man, and had
                    been a preacher at an earlier  period than Brother Hardy. I
                    refer to a Brother Wooster who was an Englishman by birth, and had the meek and quiet spirit of the
                    early Wesleyan preachers. O, I used to love to sit still till near midnight to hear the good old man
                    talk of the wonderful doings of the Lord in the days of his youth, when preachers were few in
                    number, and preached at the risk of their lives. Those who know the intense application which I then
                    bestowed on my books, must know that there was something charming in this man that could turn me
                    from my studies so long; but I did love, and do yet love to hear old men talk, especially one who
                    had been a traveling preacher at so early a day. I hope the reader will pardon this digression,
                    while I say peace to the memory of Father Wooster, and pass on.
            All who knew Charles Hardy regarded him as a father in our Israel and respected him as a man of
                    singular integrity and piety. His word was sacred in the estimation of all. He was fond of sacred
                    music, and for years taught many young persons the science of vocal music. His gravity prevented
                    that abuse of a good thing, which is too often the concomitant of singing societies; I mean a spirit
                    of levity and frivolity, which is often the means of great injury to the piety of young persons, and
                    sometimes the cause of their total apostasy. Nothing can be more unpleasant to aged and thoughtful
                    persons, than to hear the most solemn words which can drop from human lips succeeded by a giddy
                    laugh. 0, ye young singers be on your guard and shun levity and frivolity, that your good singing,
                    may not be evil spoken of. Having contracted the habit of riding on horseback while young, on his
                    extensive circuits, he retained a love for the saddle almost to his dying day. The last time I saw
                    him, about one month before his death, he had rode several miles to quarterly meeting when he was
                    hardly able to sit up during sermon. In person, this brother was small, but had a fine face, and
                    most noble forehead; and if the likeness which we see of Joseph Beson had been drawn for him, it
                    would not have differed much from what it is. For so small a man he had, in early life, a very
                    powerful and commanding voice, but in his advanced age it was somewhat hoarse. Everything about his
                         person, and house, and farm, was neat and trim, while he
                    was able to attend to them; and he trained his family to habits of precision in almost everything.
                    He was the parent of eleven children, six of whom died before him, and have hailed him and bid him
                    welcome to the happy spirit world. His heart was much set on the conversion of the world; hence, he
                    had been a liberal contributor of late years to the funds of the missionary society; and he
                    remembered the cause of missions when he was about to die, and he willed to the society fifty
                    dollars, which will be paid in due time. How pleasing to see a man, who had labored in word and
                    doctrine more than sixty years, contributing from the earnings of a long and industrious life, to
                    spread that word which he could proclaim no more.
            Take him all in all, he was a most excellent man, who has gone to his reward on high. On the first
                    Sabbath in last October the writer preached a sermon at the small chapel near which he and several
                    children are buried, from Revelation xiv, 13, designed to be commemorative of the excellencies of
                    this good man. There are many more excellent local preachers living and dead, in the parts which I
                    have endeavored to describe, whom I would be glad to mention honorably but I cannot do so without
                    extending these numbers beyond any reasonable bounds.
            And now, readers, having endeavored, for more than twelve months past, from time to time, to
                    contribute something to your stock of historical information and pleasure, I bid you a friendly
                    farewell at the present time, and perhaps forever.
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            
               
                  New Albany, Ia.
               , Nov. 18, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, December 11, 1846.
         
         
         
            REVIEWS AND NOTES
            
               Indiana Historical Collections, XV, 
                            Fort Wayne
                         Gateway of the West 1802–1813. Edited by BERT J. GRISWOLD.
                    Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1927. Pp. xii-690.
            Under the above caption the Bureau has published the Garrison Orderly Books of
                    Capt. Thomas Pasteur, July 1, 1802-July 27, 1803; Maj. Zebulon Pike, July 28, 1803-Jan. 30, 1807;
                    Capt. Nathan Heald, Feb. 2, 1807-May 16, 1807; Capt. James Rhea, May 20, 1810-Nov. 22, 1812; Capt.
                    Hugh Moore, Kov. 23, 1812-Aug. 26, 1813. The last 290 pages contain Col. John Johnston's
                        Indian Agency Account Book, 1802–1811.
            A historical introduction of 83 pages on the early history of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     is done in Mr. Griswold's usual careful way. The notes are apparently accurate
                    and in good form and taste. The volume is a valuable addition to our small amount of documentary
                    history. The untimely death of the editor is a misfortune. He was one of the few local historians
                    who were doing worth while work. His History of 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                is among the first class examples of local history done in the 
                        United States
                    .
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Florida
                         Plantation Records (from the papers of George Noble Jones). Edited by ULRICH BONNELL PHILLIPS, Professor of
                    American History in the University of 
                        Michigan
                    , and JAMES DAVID GLUNT, A. M.,
                    Instructor in History in the University of 
                        Florida
                    . 
                        St. Louis
                    , The 
                        Missouri
                     Historical Society, 1927, pp. 596.
            This large, handsomely bound well printed volume presents a great variety of documentary matter
                    pertaining to two 
                        Florida
                     plantations, El Destino and Chemonie. These
                    plantations were located in middle 
                        Florida
                    , a few miles east of Tallahassee, and were managed by overseers. Journals kept by these
                    overseers and reports made by them to their  masters constitute
                    the greater part of the volume. There are in addition a few letters, lists of slaves, and various
                    other documents.
            An "Introduction" of forty-two pages is contributed by Professor Phillips. In
                    addition to matter pertaining to the owners, overseers, slaves, and other factors directly connected
                    with the plantations mentioned above, there is a brief, bibliographical discussion of plantation
                    records in general. This will prove very helpful to students of southern history. Mr. Glunt presents
                    an interesting account of a visit to the two old estates, which he made in 1925.
            The documentary material published in this volume is, as Professor Phillips states (p. 42),
                    principally valuable "in its illustration of administrative problems, and particularly of
                    the workaday routine" of the plantation system. Little that is romantic or dramatic is
                    revealed by this collection of records, mainly because the material here presented has to do with
                    plantations that were in the hands of overseers. Of all the features of the life of the old South,
                    nothing was more prosaic than a plantation, with the planter and his family living elsewhere. There
                    was not much beside dry detail that could go into the reports and journals of overseers. Valuable as
                    such records are, they do not mean that the antebellum South was lacking in romance and color.
            W. O. LYNCH
            
         
         
            
               George Rogers Clark Pioneer Hero of the Old Northwest. By Ross F. LOCKRIDGE. World Book Co. 1927, Pp. 210.
            This is a popular and condensed story of Clark's activities in the Northwest. The story
                    opens with the advent of the hero beyond the Blue Ridge in 1772 and closes with the death February
                    13, 1818, near 
                        Louisville
                    . The author has followed the documents faithfully enough. Here and there fancy has led
                    him slightly from the path direct. The grand ball July 4, 1778, at Kaskaskia, the peril of Saunders,
                    the "Honors of war" surrender of Helm and the love story at the close all hang by
                    tenuous threads. But these are minor details and perhaps make the meal more tempting to the popular
                    taste.  It comes at a time when there is considerable popular
                    interest and deserves success.
         
         
            
               The Capture of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        . The Original Narratives of George Rogers Clark and of His Opponent Gov. Henry
                        Hamilton. By MILO M. QUAIFE. The Bobbs-Merrill Co., 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1927. Pp. 231.
            In the flood of "timely" history now being thrown on the market it is pleasant to
                    come upon a book that is worth while. The first part of this manuscript was prepared by Colonel
                    Clark to furnish his friend James Madison with a reliable account of the conquest of the territory
                    northwest of the Ohio river from the British and their Indian allies. This is
                    the most detailed of the authoritative accounts of this exploit. Aside from Clark's
                    official report there are his accounts prepared for George Mason in 1779 and the journals kept by
                    Bowman and others covering parts of the campaign. There are no sufficient grounds for a serious
                    criticism of the 
                        Madison
                     paper. While ten years might be expected to dim somewhat one's memory, on the
                    other hand the story no doubt was often discussed in detail by the various participants during the
                    ten year period. Though there is some evidence that time, as is customary, tended to magnify his own
                    importance yet there are no serious discrepancies in the various accounts. The opposing account by
                    Governor Hamilton is a complete antidote in this case. The professional historian no doubt would
                    prefer the exact words of Colonel Clark but he would be over meticulous in this case to doubt the
                    accuracy of Dr. Quaife's verson.
            The story begins with the settlement of Harrodsburg, 1774, and extends to the Bowman expedition in
                    1779. It is very much to be regretted that Colonel Clark did not extend his account down to 1790 for
                    the latter part of his career offers much more difficulty to the historians than the period here
                    covered.
            Governor Hamilton's official report, here published, to General Haldimand covers the period
                    from November, 1777, when he came to 
                        Detroit
                    , till his arrival in 
                        England
                     in 1781. It includes the capture of 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1778, its surrender in  1779, and his later
                    experiences as a prisoner in 
                        Virginia
                    . He is especially severe against the French,.the Kentuckians and Governor Jefferson.
            The reviewer takes especial pleasure in recommending this book, at this time, to readers and
                    librarians of Indiana.
         
         
            
               The Women Lincoln Loved. By WILLIAM E. BARTON. The Bobbs-Merrill Company, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1927. Pp. 377.
            The list as given by Mr. Barton is Lucy Hanks, Betsy Sparrow, Bathsheba Lincoln, Nancy Hanks, Sarah
                    Bush Lincoln, Sarah Lincoln Grigsby, The Johnston Girls, The Girl in the Covered Wagon, Katie Roby,
                    Caroline Meeker, Polly Warnick, Ann Rutlidge, Mary Owen, Mary Todd.
            The author says in his Introduction "This book undertakes to be a contribution to
                    history," and he acknowledges authorship of a Life of Abraham Lincoln in
                    two volumes.
            The first sentence is characteristic of the volume "When Lucy Hanks was ten years old she
                    learned that there had been a battle at Bunker Hill." There was a
                    battle at Bunker Hill and likewise a mother of Nancy Hanks but that the mother
                    was ten years old when the battle was fought or that she heard of it is conjecture.
            Similar to this is perhaps eighty per cent of the volume. Lucy is thrown into probable contact with
                    soldiers, she attended probable balls, made probable journeys along probable roads, saw probable
                    sights, held probable amours with probable suitors and finally became the probable mother of a
                    probable daughter by a probable man.
            We are refreshed with human interest stories such as that of Jake Kuykendall and Barbara, of the
                    "lovelorn fox hunter" 
                        Washington
                     at the age of 16, of the birth room scene of 
                        Lincoln
                    , of 
                        Lafayette
                    , of good "Ann McGinty" who filed charges against several lewd women
                    in 
                        Kentucky
                     and may have against Nancy Hanks—all good stories not noticeably pertinent
                    to the argument.
            One might question the title of the volume outright—Did Lincoln love all these women or
                    any one of them? He saw his grandmother Sparrow a few times when he was a small child. May never
                    have seen his grandmother Lincoln, certainly  not often enough
                    to "love" her much; the girl in the covered wagon was a pipe dream of 
                        Lincoln
                    —and he had many; Katie Roby was at a spelling match with 
                        Lincoln
                    ; Caroline Meeker was present at a trial where 
                        Lincoln
                     was a party and perhaps sympathized with him, may even have told him so; Polly Warnick
                    was one of the six daughters of Sheriff William Warnick for whom 
                        Lincoln
                     worked as a day laborer. She was of marriagable age at the time—further
                    evidence of love, none. That 
                        Lincoln
                     exceeded in filial devotion all other boys born or reared in southern Indiana at that
                    time is a reflection which thousands will resent; that thousands of other children were left orphans
                    at a similar age in early Indiana is a commonplace; that Nancy Hanks was the only "Angel
                    Mother" that ever inhabited southern Indiana is gratuitous; that Abraham Lincoln was more
                    than ordinary as a courtier or husband is doubtful. Lincoln was great enough and Indiana glories in
                    his greatness but such balderdash as the volume under review will not add to his fame.
         
         
            
               A History of the Jewish People. By MAX L. MARGOLIS and ALEXANDER MARK. 
                        Philadelphia
                    , The Jewish Publication Society of 
                        America
                    , 1927. Pp. 752.
            The authors, Max Margolis of Dropsie College and Alexander Mark of the Jewish Theological College,
                    are two of the most distinguished scholars in the Jewish world. The period covered by the volume is
                    "From Creation to the Present." That it is divided into five books and
                    ninety-eight chapters gives one some idea of the details. Twenty-five pages of chronological charts
                    in a way unites the vast expanse and sixteen maps in colors give some idea of the dispersion. There
                    is no intention here of going into a detailed criticism of the book. It is done after the best
                    standards of historical scholarship. It is a marvelous story of a gifted people but the final effect
                    is extremely depressing. Persecution, massacre and dazzling prosperity follow in such swift
                    succession that one must remember he is reading of civilized human beings. Bloody feuds,
                    assassination go hand in hand with devotion, religion, patriotism and philosophy. One wonders what
                    it all can mean and whether it is or has been worth while. Is their religion  the cause or result of their persecution? And will it live without
                    persecution? Has it helped or hindered their own development? A blessing or a curse to the world?
                    One can only wonder. There seems no answer.
         
         
            
               Senator Solomon Spiffledink. By LOUIS LUDLOW. Illustrated by RAY EVANS, Pioneer Book Co. 
                        Washington
                    , 1927. Pp. 430.
            One scarcely knows how to classify such a book. It is presumed the author intends to be humorous. The
                    characters are thinly disguised by mosquito netting. One is almost tempted to guess that Carbine is
                    Cannon and Ache is Payne. Someone has suggested also that Jim Bloomenway is Senator Heminway.
                    Congressman Snooper might also be Lafollette. All these it will be noted are Republicans. The author
                    promises us a companion volume to deal with the upstanding statesmen. These we have a right to hope
                    will all be Democrats. The general style of the writing is similar to that of Ring Lardner, Will
                    Rogers and George Ade, though he usually falls far below them in his attempts at humor.
         
         
            
               The Papers of Sir William Johnson. By ALEXANDER C. FLICK for the Division of Archives and History, Vol. V, Albany, 1927, pp. 855.
            The papers here presented cover the two years 1766 and 1767. Most of them deal with the
                    reorganization of the Indian department following Pontiac's war. Land schemes and western
                    settlements attract more attention toward the close of the period. The volume is decidedly
                    handicapped by having neither calendar nor index. There are almost no explanatory notes. Many of the
                    papers have been so mutilated (fire) that they are not intelligible.
         
         
            
               History of 
                            Hanover
                         College. 1827–1927. By Pres. WILLIAM ALFRED MILLIS, LL. D. Hanover, 1927. Pp. 294.
            The history of individual American colleges during the 19th century could almost be written from a
                    formula. Begging for daily bread is the most noticeable function; finding teachers willing to teach
                    without pay; modernizing the curriculum;  freeing themselves
                    from ecclesiasticism. During the century eleven presidents have served 
                        Hanover
                    —twelve including Dr. Crowe who founded it. The last two, D. W. Fisher
                    (1879–1907) and W. A. Millis (1907–1927), have covered nearly half the time.
                    Enrollment, alumni, discipline, societies, publications, activities, student life, methods, faculty
                    are subjects dealt with at appropriate length. The volume, aside from its mere historical value, is
                    a fine commentary on education in Indiana. Dr. Millis writes well, the documents are at his elbow
                    and the result is worthy of the centennial of our oldest living denominational college.
         
         
            
               Messages of the Governors of 
                            Michigan
                        
               . Vols. III, IV, Edited by GEORGE N. FULLER for the 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Commission. Lansing, 1927, Pp. 752 and 1021.
            These volumes complete the messages of the Governors of 
                        Michigan
                    . The same general plan prevails in the last two as in the first two volumes. The
                    printing cost has evidently been allowed to influence the work decisively. There is neither calendar
                    nor index to Vol. III. A twenty-eight page index in Vol. IV suffices for the four volumes. There are
                    no notes to guide the stranger and only the briefest little biographical notices of the governors.
                    They seem rather scanty monuments to the governors and certainly are disappointing to
                historians.
         
         
            
               Annual Reports of the American Historical Association, 1921. Pp. 255 and 1922,
                    Vol. I, pp. 370.
            These volumes are largely mere official reports. Papers are printed only in abstract, most of which
                    are so brief it is difficult to tell what the writer is "driving at." However,
                    they bring at this belated time a pleasant remembrance of pleasures long gone.
         
         
            
               The Saukie Indians and Their Great Chiefs Black Hawk and Keokuk. By HOMER MILLS STOCKING; 1926, Rock
                        Island, pp. 300.
            This is a volume of poetry covering in historical fashion the long contest between the Saukie Indians
                    and the white  people. The narrative is truthful and at times
                    rather vivid. The notes, maps and illustrations are especially good. There is a wealth of detail,
                    personal and geographical, indicating that the author has canvassed the documents of the period very
                    carefully.
         
         
            
               Bulletin 82, Bureau of American Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution, covers
                    ArcheoIogical Observations north of the Colorado river, by NEIL M. JUDD. The work was done during the summers 1915–20
                    inclusive. The field covered is nearly all in 
                        Utah
                    . The ruins seem to indicate close relation to the Pueblo civilization to the south of
                    the Grand Canyon.
            
               Bulletin 83 by DAVID I. BUSHNELL deals with
                    burials of Algonquin, Siouan, and Caddo tribes of the west. The illustrations of this are especially
                    good.
            
               Bulletin 85 by TRUMAN MICHELSON is entitled
                    Contributions to Fox Ethnology.
            The Centennial Book of 
                            Fountain county
                        
               , an official program of the Centennial celebration of the county last year,
                    besides the pageant themes, has a valuable series of brief sketches of towns, townships and cities.
                    The celebration was sponsored by the Richard Henry Lee Chapter D. A. R. The county history is by
                        CLARENCE W. NELSON. Among the county celebrities they
                    mention D. W. Vorhees, Edward A. Hannegan and Lew Wallace.
            
               The 
                            North Carolina
                         Manual for 1927. By A. R. NEW-SOME,
                    Secretary of the 
                        North Carolina
                     Historical Commission is a useful little volume of 560 pages. As an historical summary
                    of the state for the past two years it seems to be in a class by itself.
            CITIZENSHIP
            The demand of the schools for more definite and more practical work along this line has led to a
                    flood of text books. The materials of these texts is culled from geography, history, economics,
                    ethics, mathematics and the sciences. The results are yet problematic. The American Historical
                    Association has had a committee studying the question but no final conclusion has been reached.
            
            One of the latest texts along this line is Citizenship Through Problems by JAMES B. EDMONDSON and ARTHUR DONDINAU, published by Macmillans. The text is made up of a series of social problems,
                    those presumably which are typical of ordinary community life.
            The pupils are directed. to analyze these situations, study the conditions and find the best
                    solutions. The problems are divided into five groups: Mutual Dependence, Community Welfare, Economic
                    Well-Being, Industry, Government.
            October 8, 1927, 
                        New York
                     celebrated the 150th anniversary of the Surrender of Burgoyne. A monument was dedicated
                    on the battlefield and an imposing pageant represented the battle.
            A pamphlet of 100 pages by state historian A. C. FLICK gives an excellent detailed
                    account of the Burgoyne Invasion and Surrender.
            The Grand Army of the Republic held its annual encampment at 
                        Gary
                     June 13–16, 1927. In 1926 there were 141 Posts with 2,003 members. The
                    death-roll was approximately 20 per cent or 539 for that year. In the long "Honor
                    Roll" the youngest age given was 76.
            The Quarterly Journal of the N. Y. State Historical Association for July, 1927, has
                    (p. 252) a suggestion of a State Hall for Records. 
                        New York
                     speaks from a sad experience. Every year Indiana destroys a large amount of its
                    historical material.
            The Indiana Bulletin of Charities and Correction for the year ending Sept. 30,
                    1926, gives 15,395 as the average daily attendance in the institutions which it superintends.
            Since 1890 the attendance has grown steadily from 5406. The population of the state in the meantime
                    has increased from 2,192,404 to 2,930,390. Under the head of "Needed Legislation"
                    the board recommends "A state psychiatric hospital", "extension of the
                    smaller state hospitals to a capacity of 1,500 each", "construction of additional
                    colony buildings at Butlerville", "Increased facilities for care of
                    epiliptics". The annual expenditures are somewhat in excess of $5,000,-000,
                    including that for permanent improvements.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
