
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 4, Issue 2, pages 55-102. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:4+issue:2+year:1908&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            INDIANA ARCHIVES AND HISTORY.
            
                    HARLOW LINDLEY.
                
            
               Director Department of Indiana Archives and History, Indiana State
                    Library.
            THE subject of history is constantly receiving more attention by the masses of the people in the 
                        United States
                    . This interest is being shown in a variety of ways. The older States of the Union have
                    for years provided for the preservation of their history, and many of the western States have, from
                    their early years, made some such provision. Indiana is far behind many of the States of the
                        Mississippi valley in this regard, but a public sentiment is being aroused
                    which may yet yield valuable results for the State before all the original materials have been lost
                    through accident or ignorance. There has been a sad neglect of the official records and publications
                    in years past, and through the various movements of the records in connection with the moving and
                    rebuilding of the Capitol much valuable material has been irrevocably lost. There has never been a
                    suitable place for the preservation and arrangement of the archives of the State not in daily use,
                    and no attempt has been made to keep the records of the State not in active use in a systematic way.
            The neglect has not been the fault of the officials, for they could not know of the older records of
                    the offices and have not had time to concern themselves with those records not in daily use.
            In the March, 1906, meeting of the State Library Board, at the suggestion and upon the recommendation
                    of Mr. W. E. Henry, then State Librarian, the board approved of the establishment of a Department of
                    Archives and History, as a department of the State Library, with a director to have charge of the
                         work. The work of this department was not actively begun
                    until the summer of 1907. It was pursued actively for ten weeks. As the work progresses it will more
                    and more clearly define its own scope, but from the first the following lines suggest themselves: To
                    collect manuscript materials, official and non-official, that bear upon any phase of the history of
                    the State. This work will consist of discovering and organizing all documents of historical value
                    that are now held by the various State offices and which are of no value to the department in its
                    current work. Such documents should be collected and deposited in the State Library, but if for any
                    reason they may not be brought from their present locations, the State Library should contain at
                    least an index record of what they are and where they may be found by investigators, and if possible
                    some note as to their peculiar value and trustworthiness.
            This branch of the work will also include the discovery of documentary material, such as old letters,
                    etc., still among the people, and to collect these if possible, and if they can not be secured by
                    the State, then such an index record should be found in the Library as will indicate their nature,
                    location and value.
            The second phase of the work following the discovery, collecting and organizing will be arranging,
                    binding and very fully indexing and cataloguing the material collected. This work is easily outlined
                    as a policy, but will be very difficult and exacting in the process.
            The additional kindred line that should be carried with the two above outlined is the making for the
                    Library such an index record as may be valuable to indicate what historical materials especially
                    bearing upon our State are already collected and held by other libraries, but which we can not hope
                    to secure. For example, the Congressional Library and the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Historical Society Library, as well as many others, possess much material which in a
                    way belongs to Indiana, but which we can never obtain. We must, however, possess a record of what it
                    is and where it may be found when wanted.
            While this synopsis gives a brief general statement of the work planned for the new division, it must
                    not be understood from this that the State Library has done little or nothing to  collect and organize the materials of our State's history.
                    Quite the contrary is true. The Library for many years, through several administrations, has
                    sustained what is called an Indiana Section, to which has been added as rapidly as discovered and
                    consistent with very meager funds, all printed material that throws light on Indiana history, and
                    this collection of printed matter is doubtless the best to be found anywhere in the country. The
                    Library has, however, not formerly been able to make any thoroughly organized systematic effort in
                    the line of the manuscript and widely scattered materials.
            With these facts in mind, it was the plan of the writer, as director of the department, to give some
                    time during the summer of 1907 to these records, although it seemed wiser for the present to look
                    out for materials over the State which were not so secure as those already in the State House.
            Among the departments of the State, the records most completely examined were those of the Clerk of
                    the Supreme Court. It was found that this office contains the Complete Records of the Territorial
                    Court of Indiana from its establishment in 1801 until the establishment of the State government in
                    1816. Beginning with 1817 there are two series of Records of the State Supreme Court—the
                    "Order Book" and "Record Book." These records are complete from
                    1817 to date.
            The other records of this department were classified and a report filed in the Indiana State Library.
            The Department of State contains a mine of historical matter. The investigation of this department
                    has not been completed, but a great deal of valuable historical data has been secured, among which
                    is the following:
            Ordinance of the Representatives of the People of the Territory of Indiana in convention met at 
                        Corydon
                    , Monday, June 10th, 1816, for the formation of the Constitution for the State of
                    Indiana, and signed June 29th, 1816, together with the State Constitution of 1816.
            Constitution of the State of Indiana, 1831, parchment copy with signatures of the officers of and the
                    delegates to the Constitutional Convention.
            
            Journal of the House of Representatives of the Indiana Territory, begun and held in the town of
                    Corydon, Monday, August 15th, 1814, and continuing the journal to Friday, December 27th, 1816.
            Report of the Commission in behalf of the State of Indiana duly appointed by the General Assembly of
                    said State to select and locate a site for the permanent seat of government, dated June 7th, 1820.
                    Nine signers, attested to by signature of the clerk. The report is lying loose in the back of the
                    book containing the Constitution of 1816.
            Journal of the Proceedings of the Executive Government of Indiana Territory, 
                        Vincennes
                    , July 4th, 1800, 81 pages, followed by Executive proceedings under the government of
                    the State of Indiana, November 7th, 1816–November 2d, 1823.
            Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana Territory, begun and held at the town of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Monday, February 1st, 1813, up to and including March 12th, 1813.
            In the back of this volume is a record of Executive Proceedings November 9th, 1822–January
                    10th, 1823.
            Other departments of the State government will be examined likewise in the future for historical
                    data.
            Outside of the State departments the following work has been accomplished:
            
               As the result of an agreement between the Indiana Historical Society and the Indiana State
                        Library, the materials of the former were carefully examined, and fifty bound volumes and a
                        large collection of pamphlets and periodicals of historical interest not in the State Library
                        were added to the Library.
               Several visits have been made to individuals possessing private collections in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , and much valuable data has been thus gained.
               
                        Outside of 
                                Indianapolis
                             two trips of two weeks' duration each have been made—one
                            through the northern and one through the southern part of the State.
                        The northern trip included 
                        Goshen,
                                    Elkhart, South
                                Bend
                     , Notre Dame, Laporte and Logansport,
                            and the southern trip included 
                            
                        Terre Haute, Vincennes
                     , 
                                Paoli
                            , 
                                Corydon
                            , 
                        New Albany, Jeffersonville
                      and 
                        Louisville, Ky.
                     
                  
                        In each of these places valuable data were secured and individuals were personally interested
                            in the work. This has furnished a basis for a series of correspondents in each neighborhood
                            which may prove of much assistance to the department in the future.
                    
               An important step in the preservation of local history has been made by securing regularly for
                        the Library a large number of local newspapers, representing the various sections and counties
                        of the State. The local newspaper furnishes the means of preserving local history in a way which
                        can not be otherwise accomplished, and when these files are made easily and permanently
                        available by binding, the State has secured a storehouse of information of great value.
            
            It will be the purpose of the Department to cooperate with local historical societies over the State
                    in securing local historical material for public use. The activities of the department can not be
                    limited to one institution. It is only by persevering effort and through cooperation carefully
                    administered that the best results for all can be obtained. The ten weeks' work of last
                    summer has served only as an introduction to the possibilities of this work and the urgent need of
                    early action in securing for the State historical materials which are rapidly being burned or
                    disposed of to the junk dealer. Many personal illustrations could be given of instances learned
                    during the summer of the great waste and loss along these lines.
            It is in the province of this department of the State Library to preserve the historical archives of
                    the State which are not in current use from ruin and decay; also to discover, collect and classify
                    all materials connected with the history of Indiana.
            While no specific provision has been made for this work, yet ultimately the department should provide
                    not only for the care of the official archives of the State, but also the following:
            
               All books and pamphlets relating to Indiana.
               All writings of Indiana authors.
               
               Private manuscripts, such as private letters, journals, diaries, scrap-books, etc.
               Old and current files of Indiana newspapers and periodicals.
               All literature bearing upon institutional development of the State, such as minutes and
                        proceedings of conventions, conferences and associations, official gatherings of religious
                        organizations, and catalogues, bulletins and announcements of educational institutions.
            
            By keeping these needs before the attention of the people, much material may be obtained in the form
                    of gifts or deposits without any financial outlay.
            Much valuable service might also be rendered the State by the issuing of a complete catalogue of all
                    the publications authorized by the State since its organization; by a general index of official
                    reports and other documents; by the collation and publication of a list of accessible Indiana
                    newspapers; by the publication of original source material bearing upon the development of the
                    State, and in a variety of other ways.
            There is doubtless in every department of administration of the State government a large amount of
                    material possessing historical value which should be properly classified and catalogued for
                    intelligent use. The same is true of official materials to be found in every county court-house of
                    the State.
            The situation has been met by legislation in some States. The law in 
                        Alabama
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     provides:
            "Any State. county, municipal or other official is hereby authorized and empowered, in his
                    discretion, to turn over to the Department [Archives and History] for permanent preservation
                    therein, any official books, records, documents, original papers, newspaper files and printed books
                    not in current use in their offices. When so surrendered, copies there from shall be made and
                    certified by the director upon application of any persons interested, which certification shall have
                    all the force and effect as if made by the officer originally in the custody of them, and for which
                    the same fees shall be charged, to he collected in advance." 
                        Kansas
                     has a similar law.
            
            A collection of such material would furnish the facts of the real history of the State, and would
                    doubtless prove that the memory of individuals is frequently uncertain.
            There are in the State many people of influence who are interested in this work and are willing to
                    give it their support in any possible reasonable way. The theory back of the establishment of this
                    department is based on the importance of State archives, both from practical and historical
                    considerations, and on the necessity of bringing them all together in one central repository, where
                    they can be arranged, indexed and made readily accessible.
            The result of the establishment of such a department recognized by the State will be to dignify the
                    hitherto neglected accumulations of old papers, denominated by many as so much worthless trash and
                    rubbish, and to rescue from loss and destruction many documents which would otherwise be consigned
                    to the junk-man and paper-mill.
            The first aim of the department should be to secure and save; and then as rapidly as possible to
                    bind, classify, catalogue and publish for the benefit of the investigator.
            Many States, notably 
                  Massachusetts, New York
               , 
                  West Virginia, North Carolina, Alabama, Mississippi, Iowa, Kansas
                and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , are carrying on this work in some form or other, on a practical, substantial basis.
            Shall Indiana, recognized as a leader in educational work, be behind her sister States, who are
                    carrying on this phase of work so efficiently?
            Our State has some individuals, historical societies and some educational institutions that do
                    something in the way of collecting and preserving the history of our people, but it is not within
                    the power of individuals, historical societies or educational institutions, in any American State,
                    to collect and preserve in systematic order the history, biography, public documents, state papers,
                    legislative journals, executive messages, proceedings and reports of boards of regents and directors
                    of State institutions, educational and otherwise; minutes of conferences, presbyteries, synods and
                    other meetings of religious bodies; proceedings of grand lodges and secret benevolent societies, and
                    other social  organizations; records of commercial and industrial
                    progress, programs and catalogues, published sermons and addresses of any sort; club and society
                    year books; "dead" papers of courts; annual and biennial reports of executive
                    departments; maps, charts and drawings, with hundreds of other items, which illustrate the history,
                    government, geography, geology, topography and military achievements, and the civic, industrial and
                    economic life of the people, and the many other publications that go to make up the archives of the
                    State, the sources of its local and general history; files of newspapers and other periodicals; and
                    to classify and arrange all this so as to be readily available to every one when wanted. If the
                    material—the sources of the local history of the State of Indiana—is rescued,
                    collected and preserved for the use and benefit of those who are to come after us, how is the work
                    to be accomplished?
            There is but one way, one power, that can do it, and that is the State. Let the State create a
                    Department of Archives and History to do the work—no matter under what
                    name—and it will be done. Then will the sources and materials for local history be
                    gathered from the remotest bounds of the State, and be brought together and classified for the use
                    of students and all others who may have ail interest in it or care to see it. Only some department
                    of the State—aided by an appropriation of sufficient funds from the State
                    Treasury—can perform the work, which the future cries loudly to us to perform and
                    transmit results to it.
            Woodrow Wilson, president of 
                        Princeton
                     University, has said that "The world's memory must be kept alive, or
                    we shall never see an end of its old mistakes. We are in danger to become infantile in every
                    direction. This is the real menace under which we cower in this age of change."
            It is the office of the historian to keep the world's memory alive. There will never be an
                    end of the writing of history. Some one has truly said that each generation must write all its past
                    history afresh, from its own changing standpoint. But that this may continue and with increasing
                    advantage, there must never be an end of accumulating historical material. Each generation must
                    accumulate its own for the benefit of its successor.
         
         
         
            THE RESERVOIR WAR IN CLAY COUNTY.
            [The following chapter in our canal history is taken from the 
                  
                            Brazil
                         Daily Times, of June 21, 1907.
            BIRCH Creek reservoir, which covered an area of a section and a half, practically a thousand acres,
                    lying immediately west of the present town of Saline, was constructed in the year 1853, and filled
                    in the early part of the following year, at a cost of $30,000 to the canal company, The
                    embankment which confined this body of water is now the graded wagon road leading westward across
                    the creek bottom from the C. & E. I. railroad station.
            Citizens objected to the maintenance of this body of water without first removing the timber on the
                    ground, for the reason that it would prove deleterious and threatening to the public health.
            On the 22d of February, 1851, a public meeting was held at the residence of George Moss, Sr., the
                    two-story, hewn-log house then standing on the bluff half-way between the site now occupied by the
                    town of Ashboro and Birch Creek, Sugar Ridge (then 
                        Washington
                    ) township, to take counsel on the public interests involved. This meeting was addressed
                    by Daniel Dunlavy, of Dick Johnson township, who was then the county's representative in
                    the State Legislature, when it was declared by resolution that there should be no let up in
                    hostilities against the company until the demand of the public for the removal of the timber should
                    be conceded and carried out. Notwithstanding this decisive action of the meeting, the company
                    ignored the public grievance and proceeded to fill up the feeder.
            The first overt act on the part of the people expressive of their disapproval and resentment of the
                    course pursued by the company was a slight cut in the embankment at some time in the month of May,
                    inflicting but little damage, which was soon repaired. But on the night of the 22d day of June
                    following a gap of a hundred feet was cut, through which flowed out practically  the whole basin of water, in effect suspending navigation on the
                    Crosscut (that section of the canal between the 
                        Wabash
                    , at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and Newberry, on White river) for the period of three months.
            James M. Hanna, of Bowling Green, State's attorney for 
                        Clay county
                    , then issued a call for a meeting to be held at the feeder dam, July 28th, to consider
                    means of pacification, which was largely attended, there being representatives of the canal company
                    present, when it was agreed that the timber should be cut and removed. To carry out this agreement a
                    contract was at once let to William K. Houston, of Bowling Green, and the work completed before the
                    close of the year, costing about $10,000.
            While this work was in progress, on the 9th day of September, the breastwork of the feeder dam was
                    fired and burned to the water's edge.
            Succeeding this, on the 19th day of October, Governor Wright issued his proclamation offering a
                    reward of $500 for the "apprehension, arrest and lodgment in custody of the
                    offenders or any of them," announcement of which was made by posters in bold type,
                    prominently displayed about the reservoir.
            As the darkest cloud is said to have its silver lining, even so are the most pathetic aspects of life
                    and affairs mellowed by the tinge of humor. These posters, it is said, were taken down by night and
                    written ones substituted offering a reward of the same amount for the "apprehension and
                    delivery in good condition of ‘Old Joe Wright’ on the banks of Birch Creek
                    reservoir."
            Though succeeded by a temporary lull, this procedure on the part of the Governor, coupled with the
                    company's acceding to the terms of pacification demanded, did not fully assuage the
                    grievances of the public. The "nuisance," as the reservoir had been pronounced,
                    was still there, and the fires of animosity engendered still smoldering. Several months later,
                    navigation and traffic having resumed their usual sway, on the 10th day of May, 1855, at the hour of
                    noon, there marched upon the embankment of the feeder, in regular file, a body of one hundred men,
                    who drove away the guard, then proceeded summarily to discharge all the accumulated water. One
                    account of this assault made  upon the company's works
                    says that there were in the party one hundred and fifty-four men, half of whom were armed with
                    rifles and most of the others with spades and shovels, all having blacked faces. Then it was, on the
                    urgent solicitation of the trustees of the canal company, that the Governor called out the militia
                    to suppress the violence being done to the company's property, which gave rise to the
                    so-called "Reservoir War" in our local history.
            The proclamation of the Governor calling out the military brought 
                        Clay county
                     to the notice of the outside world. In the 
                  
                            Cincinnati
                         Commercial of corresponding date appeared the following exhaustive paragraph
                    from the vocabulary of causticity in the characterization of 
                        Clay county
                     and its people:
            "We were yesterday surprised to receive a paper from 
                        Clay county
                    , Indiana. We did not suppose that the people read the papers in that swampy, sloppy,
                    soggy, sticky, stinking, stifling, stubborn, starving, subsidiary, slavoring, slavish, swinish,
                    sheepish, sorrowfully dark, desolate, direful, devilish, dim, doleful, downcast, dirty, despairing,
                    deluded, degenerate, dismal, dreary, driveling, demoniac, dilapidated locality, where public works
                    are destroyed, and the officers whose duty it is to defend the laws, with blacked faces trample them
                    under foot. On first opening this paper we felt hopeful, thinking there would be light shining in
                    the midst of darkness, but instead we found that the 
                  
                            Clay county
                         Citizen only makes darkness visible. as it is the organ of the canal
                    cutters."
            To ask who cut the reservoir embankment is but to paraphrase "Who struck Billy
                    Patterson?" If any of them be yet living they are known only to themselves. The writer
                    never learned to know but three of the whole number, and they passed away some years ago.
            M. ARTZ.
         
         
         
            THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF INDIANA IN 1834.
            
               A LETTER OF SOLON ROBINSON'S.
            [Solon Robinson was one of the first and most prominent settlers of 
                        Lake county
                    , sometimes called "The Squatter-King of Lake." He founded 
                        Crown Point
                    , and was for a time postmaster, and was generally active in public affairs. He was a
                    fluent and entertaining writer and seems to have exercised his talent. See T. H. Ball's "
                        Lake County
                    , 1834–1872," pp. 22 ff. and "
                        Lake County
                    , 1884," pp., 465, 483.]
            
               From the 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana, Republican and Banner, January 15, 1835.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              ROBINSON'S PRAIRIE,
                              OAKLAND COUNTY, IA.[INDIANA],
                           
                                    DECEMBER 16, 1834. 
                        MESSERS. LODGE & PATRICK*:
                        I avail myself of the privilege of addressing you, and through you, some information,
                                    not only of myself, but of the country that I hope will be interesting to my friends
                                    and acquaintances and many of your readers.
                        Your first inquiry will be, "Where is the place you date from?" It
                                    is the territory which forms the northwest corner of Indiana, lying west of 
                                        Laporte county
                                     and between the Kankakee river and Lake
                                        Michigan. Being one of the first settlers, I have named it "
                                        Oakland county
                                    ," as descriptive of most of the timber in it. This prairie
                                    having no other name, and I having moved the first white family onto it, it has been
                                    called "Robinson's 
                                        Prairie
                                    " by way of distinction. My location is thirty-five miles
                                    southwest of 
                                        Michigan City
                                     on the old Sioux Indian trail leading in the direction of Peoria, Ill.,
                                    and about the same distance southeast of 
                                        Chicago
                                    , and on the dividing ridge between the lakes and the 
                                        Mississippi
                                    . I can not give you an adequate idea of this country. To say it is rich
                                    and beautiful is not sufficient. It is the first fine country I ever saw. I am now
                                    speaking of the north part of the State generally. You have heard the Door Prairie
                                    described. Description gives you no idea of the 
                              
                                 * Publishers of the 
                                    
                                                    Madison
                                                 Republican and Banner.
                           
                                     real splendor of the green when it first breaks
                                    upon the view. I had seen many prairies before, but never such an one. My intention,
                                    when I left 
                                        Madison
                                    , was to have settled upon it. ICnoming that it was only two or three
                                    years since it began to settle, I expected to find much vacant land. Instead of that
                                    it is nearly all claimed and already wears the appearance of an old settled country.
                                    Good frame houses and barns built and building, with such a multitude of stacks of
                                    hay and grain that it looks like the great storehouse of the world. And yet, with
                                    all this abundance, grain is already becoming high and scarce. The influx of
                                    "newcomers" is beyond calculation. Land is rising in value most
                                    wonderfully, and yet when compared with some other countries it never can reach a
                                    value sufficiently high to compare with its real worth. "Congress
                                    improvements" are frequently sold on the Door Prairie from $500
                                    to $2,000 for quarter-sections. Every emigrant's desire is to
                                    get upon the most valuable location he can find, so that his improvements will rise
                                    in value before the land comes into market, which will not be until next summer or
                                    later.
                        Not finding a situation in 
                                        Laporte county
                                     that suited me, I was at some loss what to do, when I accidentally met
                                    with the surveyors just returned from their survey in this territory. They informed
                                    me that there was a large tract of country entirely unsettled which was not only
                                    equally as fertile as the Door Prairie, but in other respects better. I immediately
                                    procured an Indian pony, furnished myself with provisions and a blanket, took notes
                                    and a plat of the country from the surveyors and in company with one other person
                                    started out on an exploring tour. I soon found the spots pointed out to me as first
                                    rate on my plat, and upon one of them made my pitch, returned to Laporte and
                                    procured hands to help build a cabin and moved my family on directly, some fifteen
                                    or twenty miles beyond "the last house," and in one week after we
                                    camped upon this spot I had a comfortable log cabin eighteen feet square, as well
                                    finished off as could be expected thirty-five miles from a saw-mill. I came onto
                                    this prairie the 1st of November, at which time I could have said with the poet of
                                    Juan Fernandes— 
                                    "I am monarch of all I survey. My right there is
                                        none to dispute." but now there is about a dozen houses in
                                    sight, and numerous claims made for others, though as yet I have but one white
                                    neighbor within ten miles. This is an arm of the "
                                        Grand Prairie
                                    " and is most beautifully interspersed with groves of timber
                                    which consist of white, black, yellow, red and burr oak and great quantities of
                                    shellbark hickory and some other timber. Lakes, streams and springs are also plenty.
                                    In the grove where I have built there is an abundance of crab-apple, plum and cherry
                                    trees, and, above all, there are a great number of "honey trees"
                                    in the country. The soil on this prairie is composed of twelve to eighteen inches of
                                    dry, black vegetable matter on top, then from one to two feet of loose, clayey loam,
                                    under which is a hard pan of limestone and pebbly clay. Stone is not plenty, though
                                    enough for the most necessary purposes can be obtained easily. Soft timber is
                                    scarce; rail and other timber abundant and excellent, and fuel the best I ever saw,
                                    particularly oak, which when perfectly green will ignite as easily and burn as well
                                    as I ever saw seasoned hickory or sugar tree do in the south part of this State. As
                                    to the healthfulness of the country, I can only say that everybody says it is so,
                                    and everybody's personal appearance warrants the belief that the say-so is
                                    true. The badness of my own health was my inducement for leaving the Ohio
                                        river, as then there seemed no prospect of my ever recovering it.
                                    Here I have become as hearty as ever I was in my life—completely
                                    restored. I most earnestly wish that many of my friends could partake of the
                                    benefits of this country. The north end of Indiana will most certainly become the
                                    garden spot of the State. A very erroneous impression has been long impressed upon
                                    the public in regard to the country purchased of the Pottawattamies in 1832, lying
                                    within this State. It has ever been represented upon the map of the State as one
                                    immense swamp, but instead of that being the fact, it is directly the contrary. Ten
                                    thousand acres of fine, high, dry prairie to one of swamp is more correct. Nearly
                                    all the streams are bordered with marsh, on which grows the most luxuriant crop of
                                    grass, which affords the greatest abundance of good hay  to the new settlers. So that instead of being a
                                    detriment to the settlement of the country, it is the greatest
                                    advantage—and as the water of these marshes is generally pure spring
                                    water and no decaying timber on them, they are in no way unhealthy. In fact, there
                                    is no decaying timber here (the great cause of miasma) even in the timbered land. It
                                    is all burnt up annually, as the Indians make it a point to fire the prairies every
                                    fall, and all of the timber here is so combustible that it burns so entirely as to
                                    leave no trace even of the stumps. Perhaps this is the way that the prairies are
                                    first made.
                        There appear to be but few Indians now in the country. There are three wigwams on the
                                    bank of a most beautiful lake abounding in fish, geese, ducks and muskrats, about
                                    four miles from my house. The wigwams are built of sticks and covered with long
                                    grass and flag matting, and are about ten or twelve feet in diameter, with a small
                                    fire and a great smoke in the center, around which the family sit or lie on a few
                                    skins or blankets. * * * And yet these are a
                                    cheerful, happy people. Their dress usually consists of moccasins, broadcloth or
                                    buckskin leggings, a kind of kilt, and sometimes a shirt, and over all a blanket
                                    loosely thrown. They are frequently at my house to "swap"
                                    suc-se-we-ors (venison) for buck-we-an and quass-gun (flour and bread), or po-ke-min
                                    (cranberries) and musquas skins for sum-ma (tobacco) and daw-mien (corn). They are
                                    quiet and civil, but not quite so neat as might be. Their besetting sin is a love of
                                    whisky—an awful curse that white men have inflicted upon them. I blush to
                                    say that there are men in Indiana that will strip an Indian of his last blanket by
                                    whisky. They are fast falling before the sweeping pestilence of drunkenness. One of
                                    the coldest nights of this winter one of the poor wretches lay out upon this
                                    prairie, having pawned his best blanket for whisky enough to murder him.
                        Some persons who would like to emigrate to the Pottawattamie country are deterred
                                    from it by fear of the Indians. Such, if once here, would dismiss their fears. They
                                    are by no means unpleasant neighbors—besides it is probable that they
                                    will all leave the country in the course of the next summer for their new home west
                                    of the 
                                        Mississippi
                                    . Others are deterred from emi- 
                                    grating in consequence of the land not yet being in market. No difficulty is to be
                                    apprehended from making improvements before purchasing. Congress provided for all of
                                    the settlers of 1833 at the last session by a removal of the pre-emption law. No
                                    doubt the same favor will be extended to those who have settled since that time at
                                    the present session of Congress. If not, the claims of settlers are most singularly
                                    respected by common custom. For instance, a person comes here and looks at a piece
                                    oi land that suits him. He will perhaps lay the foundation of a cabin, is
                                    "claimed" or located, and no person will interfere or presume to
                                    settle upon it without first purchasing the first claimant's right. There
                                    is a vast body of most beautiful country yet unclaimed in this purchase. Thousands
                                    of "first rate chances" may yet be had on this prairie and in the
                                    groves adjoining. I have no doubt but that the rush of emigrants into "
                                        Oakland county
                                    " will be as great for three years to come as it has been into 
                                        Laporte county
                                     for three years past. The growth of this country to an Eastern or
                                    Southern man is most wonderful. The majority of the inhabitants are Yankees, and
                                    those, too, who are not only comfortable, but "well to live." One
                                    good evidence of the good quality of the inhabitants is to be seen in the numerous
                                    schoolhouses and the scarcity of grog shops. There is a great demand for mechanics.
                                    The communication of 
                                        New York
                                     by the lakes is so easy that merchandise is not high, but labor and
                                    provisions of all kinds are quite so, when compared with the prevailing prices on
                                    the Ohio river.
                        
                           
                                        Michigan City
                                    , which is the only landing place at present on Lake
                                    Michigan in this State, presents one of the most singularly rapid growths
                                    I ever knew. It is now in reality a small city. One year ago it contained only three
                                    log cabins. There is much fine white pine timber near the city, and Trail creek
                                    affords good mill privileges, on which are several mills.
                        Although this is a very level country, there are an abundance of mill privileges on
                                    never failing strezms, which possess the singular feature of never rising or falling
                                    except a mere trifle.
                        If you think my present sketch may be interesting to your readers, I will probably
                                    give you a continuation of it hereafter.
                        Yours, etc., SOLON ROBINSON.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            THE FIRST INDIANA HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.
            
               W. H. RAGAN.
            [Extracts from a paper read at the annual meeting of the Indiana Horticultural Society, 1906, and
                    printed in full in the proceedings of the Society for that year.]
            IN August, 1840, I saw my father and mother, each well mounted, he with saddlebags filled to their
                    uttermost capacity, and she with a good-sized bag swinging from the horn of her saddle, vanish from
                    view into the wilderness that well nigh surrounded our cabin home, and for a period of almost or
                    quite a week they were gone from us. On their return they had much to tell us about their visit to
                    the great city and of the many things they saw and heard while gone. They had attended the first
                    meeting of the Indiana Horticultural Society; indeed helped organize the society and had displayed
                    the fruit they had carried with them, in saddlebags and pannier, at the exhibition that was held in
                    the "Hall of the new State House," which had been graciously granted them for the
                    purpose. The meeting was held on the 22d day of August, 1840. James Blake was president and H. P.
                    Coburn acted as secretary. Many others besides my good parents had assembled themselves together on
                    that occasion, with the common purpose in view of effecting an organization for the promotion of
                    horticulture in our then new State. The movement was largely inspired by the leading spirit of the
                    late Rev. Henry Ward Eeecher, then a resident of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and pastor of one of its pioneer churches. At the time of this meeting the Indiana Farmer was in its first volume, as a monthly, though for three years prior
                    to that date an irregularly published weekly, bearing the same name, had been conducted by John
                    Osborn and J. S. Willets. In 1840 Mr. Willets became sole proprietor of the monthly Indiana Farmer and its columns gave abundant evidence of his cordial support of the newly
                    born Horticultural Society. At the close of the year 1840, or soon thereafter, Mr.  Beecher assumed the editorial charge of the paper, after which its name
                    was changed to Indiana Farmer and Gardener, which became the official organ of the
                    society during the succeeding five years of its existence, or until Mr. Beecher returned East.
            Of those who participated in this early meeting, my parents often spoke in their later life. Indeed,
                    it was an epoch in their otherwise quiet lives, and the theme was so fascinating to them and was so
                    frequently reiterated in the hearing of us children, that I almost feel as though I had really
                    "been there," and that I am now relating this as an original story. I have already
                    said that James Blake was chairman of this first meeting and that H. P. Cohurn (father of General
                    John) acted as secretary, and besides these, Aaron Aldridge, Martin Williams, Benjamin Moiris, Cyrus
                    R. Overman, James Sigerson, Joshua Lindley and many others were present and contributors to the
                    exhibition. No prizes were offered at this exhibition, but many fine and rare specimens of fruits
                    bedecked the tables. Joshua Lindley exhibited the first specimen grown in the State of the justly
                    celebrated Williams Bon Chretien (Bartlett) pear. It was too precious to sample, but my parents were
                    permitted to handle it and "sniff its fragrant perfume," which they likened unto
                    that of a well-ripened muskmelon. At the close of the exhibition it was presented to the editor of
                    the Indiana Farmer, who, later, had the following to say of it: "It
                    became perfectly mellow in a few days; was very juicy and of excellent flavor, and we can recommend
                    it as one of the best varieties of pears." From a historical standpoint, this item is one
                    of much interest, since, from that day to this, the Bartlett, all things considered, has been our
                    most popular and valuable pear.
            I do not think my parents attended the second annual meeting of Indiana Horticultural Society, which
                    occurred in the fall of 1841, but they did attend that of 1842. On that occasion a much larger
                    attendance of members and friends of the cause is noted and there was made an exhibition of fruits
                    and flowers that would do credit to the best efforts known to the present generation of
                    horticulturists, and this result was not called forth by any tempting offer of prizes to be awarded,
                    for but one was to be  competed for, and that one a set of silver
                    teaspoons for the best seedling apple. There were a number of competitors for this prize, which, in
                    the hands of a competent committee, was finally awarded to a seedling that originated in 
                        Putnam county
                     and that was exhibited by Reuben Ragan. The spoons are yet in the family, two of the
                    six having fallen to the writer's share of his father's estate, and it is needless
                    to add that they are highly prized as interesting and valuable souvenirs of early-day horticulture
                    in Indiana. Mr. Beecher was a member of the committee that made the award and he also proposed the
                    name, "Osceola," a name that the apple has since borne. Osceola, for whom the
                    apple was named, was the brave and daring chief of the Seminoles, who had then but recently pined
                    and dined in the military prison at 
                        Fort Moultrie
                    , 
                  Charleston, S. C.
               , a victim to the treachery of "pale-faced
                    warriors."
            The attendance at this third annual meeting of the society embraced, among others, the names of James
                    Blake, James M. Ray, A. G. Willard, J. S. Willets, Nathaniel West, Aaron Aldridge, James Sigerson,
                    Joseph Beeler, H. W. Beecher, Sherman Day, J. L. Richmond, L. Munsell, John Hobart, Abner Pope, C.
                    W. VanHouten, Joshua Lindley, Calvin Fletcher, H. P. Coburn, A. F. Morrison, Powell Howland, Reuben
                    Ragan, Martin Williams, C. R. Overman, Andrew Hampton, Cornelius Ratliff, Z. S. Ragan, George W.
                    Merritt, N. Noble, William S. Hubbard and others of that day and generation, besides many of their
                    wives and daughters. I well remember seeing my father and mother, with over-burdened saddlebags and
                    pannier, leaving home to attend this meeting, and their return with the much-coveted prize they had
                    won, and the stories they had to relate of the things they saw and the people they met, and these
                    are some of the pleasant recollections of my child-life.
            It is probable that the meeting and exhibition of 1842 marked the high tide of the society's
                    existence, under its original organization. At any rate the organization ceased to exist, as such,
                    with the return to the East of its chief promoter, the Rev. H. W. Beecher, which event, I think,
                    occurred early in 1847. It is an honor and a credit alike to the horticulturists of our State that
                         the first society of its kind in the great West, now the
                    home of the most noted organization of the kind in existence, should have been effected within our
                    limits, and that, too, by men whose spirit of enterprise has been handed down through their own
                    blood to the present day. All hail to their memories!
            It may not be strictly appropriate to speak of the "reorganization" when the new
                    society was not given the exact name of the old, for such is true. It was the "Indiana
                    Horticultural Society" that was organized in 1840, and it was "Indiana Pomological
                    Society" that was organized in October, 1860, but at the second biennial meeting, which
                    occurred in January, 1863, the name was changed to Indiana Horticultural Society, and its meetings
                    thereafter became annual. * * * The immediate credit of the
                    organization of Indiana Pomological Society belongs more to E. Y. Teas than to any other one person.
                    At the Indiana State Fair, held at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in October, 1860, about twenty persons met on the evening of October 18, 1860, in the
                    insurance office of Mr. Mayhew, on 
                        South Pennsylvania
                     street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . * * * Notwithstanding the smallness of the number
                    present, an organization was effected. Reuben Ragan was chosen president, William Miller, Abram
                    Trueblood, J. W. Tenbrook and Lewis Jones, vice-presidents; William H. Loomis, secretary, and John
                    C. Teas, treasurer.
            Thus the Indiana Horticultural Society of to-day had its beginning. There were present on the
                    occasion mentioned by Mr. Teas, according to the published records of that event, Lewis Jones, 
                        Wayne county
                    ; W. B. Lipsey, 
                        Washington county
                    ; Gardner Goldsmith, 
                        Marion county
                    ; C. Fletcher, Jr., 
                        Marion county
                    ; George M. Beeler, 
                        Marion county
                    ; T. A. Loyd, 
                        Tippecanoe county
                    ; E. Y. Teas, 
                        Wayne county
                    ; John Snepp, 
                        Johnson county
                    ; Joseph Ashton, 
                        Clark county
                    ; Dr. J. A. Warder, 
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               , "and several other
                    gentlemen." Among the "several other gentlemen" were J. W. Teabrook, 
                        Parke county
                    ; John C. Teas, 
                        Henry county
                    , and W. H. Ragan, 
                        Putnam county
                    .
            Lewis Jones presided at this preliminary meeting and Thomas A. Loyd acted as secretary. The form of
                    an organization was  agreed upon, a committee consisting of Mr.
                    Loomis, G. Goldsmith and E. Y. Teas having reported the same, after which a committee consisting of
                    Dr. Warder, G. Goldsmith and E. Y. Teas reported the list of officers enumerated above, and the
                    meeting adjourned to reconvene in the nursery office of Fletcher, Williams and Loomis on the
                    following evening to further perfect the organization, etc.
            Pursuant to the adjournment from the evening previous, the society reconvened on the evening of
                    October 19, 1860, with a somewhat increased attendance. The president-elect not being present, Dr.
                    George W. Mears, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was called to preside, and Mr. Loomis took his place at the secretary's desk.
                    Those present on this occasion, in addition to those mentioned as having been present on the
                    previous evening, were: Dr. George W. Mears, of 
                        Marion
                    ; R. E. Ragan, of Hendricks; Dr. J. C. Helm, of 
                        Delaware
                    ; Abner Pope, of 
                        Marion
                    ; D. V. Culley, of 
                        Marion
                    ; John F. Hill, of 
                        Marion
                    ; Erie Lock, of 
                        Marion
                    ; Eliphalet Case, of 
                        Switzerland
                    , and Thomas B. Morris, of 
                        Wayne
                     counties. On motion of William E. Lipsey, of 
                        Washington county
                    , a general fruit committee of seven was appointed. It embraced the following named
                    gentlemen: Reuben Ragan, William Miller, E. Y. Teas, John Wright, J. W. Tenbrook, I. D. G. Nelson
                    and W. B. Lipsey.
            The first regular session of Indiana Pomological Society convened in the Supreme Court room in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on Wednesday, January 9, 1861, in pursuance of adjournment. Reuben Ragan.
                    president-elect, having declined, on account of age and infirmities, Hon. John A. Matson, of 
                        Putnam county
                    , was called to preside.
            John A. Matson, of 
                        Putnam county
                    , was elected president; William Miller, of 
                        St. Joseph county
                    ; Barnabas C. Hobbs, of 
                        Parke county
                    ; Oliver Albertson, of 
                        Washington county
                    , and Lewis Jones, of 
                        Wayne county
                    , vice-presidents; John C. Teas, of 
                        Henry county
                    , treasurer, and William H. Loomis, of 
                        Marion county
                    , secretary, each to serve for two years. Letters were read from Reuben Ragan declining
                    to serve as president, and from Dr. John A. Warder expressing his deep regret at not being  able to attend the meeting, and complimenting the fruit growers
                    of Indiana on their successful organization and its auspicious promise of future usefulness. A
                    constitution was formally adopted and much valuable discussion was indulged in concerning varieties
                    of fruits, their adaptability to our soils and climate, and especially their true names and various
                    synonyms. It may be correctly inferred from this that our fruit nomenclature was, at that day, in a
                    bad plight and that its correction and improvement was regarded by members of the society as its
                    most urgent obligation.
            The meeting continued for three days and finally closed after the adoption of lists of varieties of
                    fruits which were recommended to the people of the State for general planting. These lists embraced
                    thirteen varieties of apples; twelve of pears; one of cherries; six of peaches; one of quinces;
                    three of currants; two of gooseberries; six of grapes; three of raspberries, and four of
                    strawberries, and also, in addition to these, a list of fruits which were "recommended as
                    promising well." At the October meeting of the society the secretary had been directed to
                    publish a circular of inquiry concerning the various fruits and to send it out to the growers of the
                    State. A total of twenty-four responses had been received and were reported by that officer, who
                    presented them to the meeting. In these several responses the aggregate of fifty-six varieties were
                    mentioned with more or less approval by the several correspondents.
            The second biennial session of the society was held in the rooms of the Indiana State Board of
                    Agriculture in the State Capitol, beginning on January 7, 1863. The attendance at this meeting was
                    rather small, owing to the existence of the War of the Rebellion, then raging at its height. At this
                    meeting the constitution was changed in two important particulars: First, the meetings were made to
                    occur annually thereafter, and second, the name of the society was changed from
                    "Pomological" to "Horticultural." The main object in this latter
                    change was to broaden the field of discussion. Before it was restricted to the discussion of fruits
                    alone, now any topic within the broad field of horticulture might be legitimately introduced and
                    discussed.
            
            Hon. I. D. G. Nelson, of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , an intelligent and thoroughly practical horticulturist and extensive fruit grower, was
                    elected president; Gen. Joseph Orr, of Laporte, Lewis Jones, of 
                        Wayne
                    , Hon. John C. Shoemaker, of Perry, and W. H. Ragan, of 
                        Putnam
                    , vice-presidents; George M. Beeler, of 
                        Marion
                    , secretary, and John C. Teas, of Henry, treasurer. Thirty-two paying members, including
                    several of the leading fruit-growers of the State, were enrolled during the meeting. The meeting
                    lasted for three days and the discussions embraced a large list of appropriate subjects. Mr.
                    Sylvester Johnson first became one of us at this session, since which we have had no more faithful
                    and attentive member, he having subsequently served the society for eleven years consecutively as
                    its efficient presiding officer. He is our senior member in years, and but two are now living who
                    antedate his enrollment as a member and who at all times have been constant and faithful to their
                    original obligation. Two lists of fruits, one that was recommended for "general
                    planting" within the State, and one that "promised well." appear in the
                    published proceedings of this meeting. These have proved of great value to the planters of that day
                    and to subsequent generations. No fixed programs were arranged for the early meetings, and prior to
                    that of January, 1864, no formal papers or addresses were read or delivered before the assembled
                    society.
            Prior to the year 1866 the society was entirely supported by the membership fees of those who
                    constituted it. In 1866 the Hon. George W. Hoss, then State Superintendent of Public Instruction,
                    arranged with the society to place a bound copy of its transactions for that year in each of the
                    then existing township libraries throughout the State. This generous proposition, in addition to the
                    high compliment to the character of the work being accomplished by the society, also enabled it to
                    make a much more favorable contract with the publishers, by reason of the greatly increased number
                    of volumes taken. The reports for this year were also bound in cloth instead of paper, as
                    heretofore. We therefore owe a debt of gratitude to Professor Hoss, as also to the individual
                    members who, prior to that date, and to a large extent since, have borne the burden of expense in
                    keeping alive our cherished organization.
            
            Below is an alphabetical list of those who were members prior to 1866, and the year in which they
                    were such. By reason of time and space required, only the first year of membership is given, in case
                    of each individual, many of whom became annual paying members, from and after their first
                    initiation. Indeed this was, and has ever been, the rule:
            Albertson, Oliver, 1863; Ashton, Joseph, 1860; Bayless, Lot S., 1864; Beeler, George M., 1860; Blair,
                    J. W., 1865; Bond, S. R., 1865; Bond, Charles D., 1864; Brevoort, Ed S., 1865; Burnett, Steven,
                    1865; Caldwell, H., 1865; Campbell, George W., 1864; Carr, J. F., 1864; Case, Eliphalet, 1860;
                    Conley, John J., 1861; Cox, Prof. E. T., 1864; Culley, D. V., 1860; Darrough, John, 1865; Dicker,
                    James, 1865; Dunlop, John S., 1863; Fatout, D. B., 1863; Fawcet, J., 1865; Fisher, Stearns, 1864;
                    Fitzgerald, T. H., 1865; Fleming, William, 1863; Fletcher, Calvin, 1860; Francis, John T., 1865;
                    Freeman, John, 1865; Furnas, Dr. Allen, 1863; Furnas, Isaac, 1865; Goldsmith, G., 1860; Gregory, J.
                    N., 1865; Harlan, Dr. J. B., 1864; Harrison, A. I., 1863; Helm, Dr. J. C., 1860; Hill, John F.,
                    1860; Holmes, A. J., 1864; Hubbard, William S., 1864; Johnson, F. C., 1864; Johnson, Sylvester,
                    1863; Jones, Adam, 1865; Jones, Lewis, 1860; King, Edward, 1863; Lang, Louis, 1863; Lipsey, William
                    B., 1860; Little, James A., 1864; Lock, Erie, 1860; Loomis, William H., 1860: Loveland, E. P., 1864;
                    Lowder, Charles, 1864; Loyd, Allen, 1863; Loyd, Thomas A., 1860; Lupton, George, 1864; McCarty,
                    Nicholas, 1863; McConnell, George W., 1864; Mankedick, Henry, 1863; Martin, J. H., 1864: Matson, J.
                    A, 1861; Mears, Dr. G. W., 1860; Mendenhall, C. S., 1861; Miller, William, 1860; Morris, Thomas B.,
                    1860; Morris, Samuel V., 1863; Morrison, Jacob, 1864; Myers, C. F. G., 1865; Nelson, DeGroff, 1864;
                    Nelson, I. D. G., 1861; Nicholson, John H., 1865; Orr, Gen. Joseph, 1864; Parker, Christian, 1865;
                    Pearson, Seth W., 1864; Pierce, John, 1861; Poole. Joseph, 1865; Pope, Abner, 1860; Ragan, Dr. G.
                    T., 1863; Ragan, Reuben, 1860; Ragan, Robert E., 1860; Ragan, William A., 1863; Ragan, W. H., 1860;
                    Ratliff, J. C., 1864; Reese, D. E., 1865; Ross, Charles, 1864; Rothrock, V., 1865; Rudisell, H. J.,
                    1864; Schlater, William H., 1864: Shepherd, Rev. I. N., 1864; Shoemaker, J. C.,  1863; Simons, Thomas, 1863; Simpson, Archibald, 1861; Snepp, David J.,
                    1864; Snepp, John, 1860; Springer, J. E., 1864; Sterret, Rev. Alexander, 1861; Stevens, Walter G.,
                    1861; Stone, Gen. A., 1861; Stuart, Zimri, 1865; Tarleton, Caleb, 1863; Teas, Edward Y., 1860; Teas,
                    John C., 1860; Tenbrook, John W., 1860; Thompson, Prof. S. H., 1865; Thornton, H. P., 1865; Troll,
                    George R., 1865; Townsend, J. M., 1863; Trueblood, Abram, 1860; Van Camp, G. C., 1864; Wetmore, S.
                    F., 1864; White, Jesse, 1865; Williams, Jesse L., 1864; Williams, Martin, 1860; Wright, Benjamin H.,
                    1863; Wright, Capt. John, 1860; Young, H. H., 1864.
         
         
            Samuel Bigger.
            
               Reminiscences by Jacob Julian in the Richmond Palladium. Kindness of Helen V.
                        Austin.
            [Mr. Jacob Julian was a native of 
                        Centerville
                     and knew intimately the people and scenes of which he wrote. He afterward moved to
                            
                  Irvington, Marion
                            county
               , and became a prominent lawyer in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .]
            AMONG the lawyers who during Judge Charles H. Test's time visited 
                        Centerville
                     and sometimes appeared in court, was Samuel Bigger, who succeeded Judge Test as circuit
                    judge, and in 1840 was made Governor of the State.
            Bigger was a tall, rather fine-looking young man. He was fond of fun, and spent the most of his time
                    playing on the violin in Noble's saloon and in joking with its inmates. He was a
                    good-humored, pleasant fellow, apparently without energy or ambition, and was liked because of his
                    social qualities. While, however, this was the public estimate of him, his intimate friends had
                    confidence in his ability and ultimate success, and when Judge Test left the bench this jolly good
                    fellow, this fiddler of the saloon, was made his successor. People soon found out that he was making
                    an excellent judge. He did not prove an able lawyer, but with his good, strong sense and sterling
                    honesty and  pleasant manners, he succeeded in winning the
                    respect of the people and in making everybody his friend. People loved him for his common ways, his
                    affability and cleverness to all. He made every one at home in his presence, in or out of the
                    courthouse. He had Lincoln's fondness for a joke, without much of his skill in telling one.
            It was during these years that George W. Stonestreet, who was a man of extraordinary quickness and
                    wit, especially when intoxicated, lived in 
                        Centerville
                    . He was a great favorite of Judge Bigger and was placed by him on perfect equality with
                    himself. One day, in a state of partial intoxication, Stonestreet rode his little pony directly up
                    to the front door of the courthouse, from which Judge Bigger, sitting on the bench in the
                    court-room, which was then downstairs, saw him, and was so much overcome by his ludicrous appearance
                    as to invite him, by an unmistakable motion of his hand, to ride in. The invitation was at once
                    accepted and Stonestreet, on his little pony, presented himself at the bar, and lifting his hat to
                    the judge, turned to the left and escaped by the west side door. Of course, the judge could not
                    complain, and did not, but joined with the lawyers and other persons present in the uproarious
                    laughter which ensued.
            Judge Bigger had a boy's fondness for shows of all kinds, and never failed to attend them.
                    Even Governor Hendricks, who never missed a circus in his life, was never more prompt in his
                    attendance on one of these exhibitions than was Bigger.
            Samuel Bigger held the office of circuit judge until 1840, when he resigned to make the canvass for
                    Governor on the Whig ticket. He was elected and made a model Governor. He died quite young at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , whither he had removed after the close of his term of office as Governor.
         
         
         
            JUDGE CHARLES B. LASSELLE'S NOTES ON ALICE OF OLD VINCENNES.
            [The following paper was written by Judge Lasselle several years ago and published, at least in part,
                    in the 
                        Logansport
                     and other papers. Extracts from it, and comments upon it, are given in Hubbard M.
                    Smith's "Historical Sketches of 
                        Old Vincennes
                    ," pp. 34, 286 ff. But as there seem to have been inaccuracies in its
                    production, and as it raises interesting questions, it is here printed practically in full with only
                    a few verbal changes and some unimportant omissions. Judge Lasselle, now living at an advanced age
                    at bogansport, has long been regarded, and rightly so, as authority upon the lore of the
                        Wabash Valley. A contribution from him on the early traders of the State
                    was published in the issue of March, 1906.]
            THE story of "Alice of 
                        Old Vincennes
                    ," by the late Maurice Thompson, is so realistic that a number of the
                    writer's friends hare requested him to point out such characters and events as would
                    justify its claim of being an "historical romance." This is no easy task, owing to
                    the employment by the author of anachronism as to the age of Alice and the dates of the events in
                    which she figures, and the great number of the scenes and events, partly historical and partly
                    fictitious, which occur. As to Alice herself, she was a real person, well known to the early
                    inhabitants of 
                        Vincennes
                    , as the sequel of this will show. Her real name was Mary Shannon. She was the daughter
                    of Captain William Shannon, one of Colonel George Rogers Clark's most patriotic and gallant
                    officers. We first hear of Captain Shannon through Clark himself. In his
                    "Memoirs," to be found in English's "Conquest of the
                    Northwest," vol. I, p. 531, he states that Captain Shannon was taken prisoner by a party of
                    the enemy while the army was nearing 
                        Vincennes
                    . He was taken to the British fort, but released upon the surrender of the fort a day or
                    two afterward. Shortly after the surrender of the fort, Colonel Clark distributed his troops to
                    different points, one part going to Fort Clark, at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    ; another to 
                  Louisville, Ky.
               , under his immediate command there, and
                    another part remained at the fort at 
                        Vincennes
                    . Captain Shannon removed with that part  going to 
                        Kaskaskia
                    . Here he remained as captain and conductor of the military stores. How long he remained
                    there is not known. A letter from him to Captain Francis Bosseron, conductor of the stores at 
                        Vincennes
                    . in possession of the writer, dated June 15, 1779, shows that he was still there at
                    that date. A few years after this, about 1784, he obtained from the Court of 
                        Vincennes
                     a tract of land near the village, on the west side of the Wabash
                    river. Many other grants of the same character were also made by the court. This gave
                    offense to the Indians, and especially the Piankeshaw Indians. These Piankeshaws had been great
                    friends of the French. After the defeat of the French and killing of 
                        Vincennes
                     by the Chickesaws, of 
                        Tennessee
                    , in 1736, the inhabitants of 
                        Vincennes
                     entertained great fears of a hostile visit from this numerous and powerful tribe of
                    Indians. The Piankeshaws, who, for time immemorial, had occupied a village called by the French
                    traders "Terrehaute" (highland), at or near the site of the present city of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , moved down, in 1742, to 
                        Vincennes
                     to protect and defend the inhabitants in case of invasion. At the same time, as claimed
                    by the French and afterward by the Americans, they made a grant of land to the French, extending
                    from a point twenty-fire miles above 
                        Vincennes
                     to a point twenty-five miles below, and twenty-five miles on each side of the
                        Wabash river—making the tract fifty miles square. But the
                    Piankeshaws, while admitting that they made such grant as to that portion of the land lying east of
                    the Wabash river, denied that they ever made a grant for that portion lying
                    west of the river. Hence, the Piankeshaws and other Indians commenced hostilities.
            Mr. Dillon, in his "History of Indiana," p. 184, states that,
                    "notwithstanding the hostile temper of the Indians during the years 1785 and 1786, the
                    court of 
                        Post Vincennes
                     continued to grant tracts of land to various French and American adventurers.
                    * * * Of the Americans who attempted to make improvements on such
                    grants, some were killed by the Indians, others became alarmed and retired to 
                        Kentucky
                    , and a few remained at 
                        Post Vincennes
                    . where they were protected by the French inhabitants."
            It was unfortunate that Captain Shannon did not do as the  other
                    settlers. It was but a short distance, probably less than a mile, from the town. The Indians
                    attacked his home and proceeded to massacre him and his family. Mary attempted to escape, but some
                    of the Indians pursued and brought her back. In her great distress she called upon her Maker for
                    help, exclaiming, "Oh, mon Dieu, oh, mon Dieu." The Indians, recognizing these
                    words as French, supposed her to be a French girl and gave her her liberty. She then hurried toward 
                        Vincennes
                     and hailing persons on the opposite hank of the river for help, they took her over in a
                    boat to the village. Here she was soon provided for.
            The story of "Alice" tells us that Gaspard Roussillon became her foster father. Was
                    he a real personage? There can be no doubt that Captain Francis Bosseron was the Gaspard Roussillon
                    of the story. In the first place, the story throughout refers to him as mayor and captain. At the
                    time the French inhabitants organized, took possession of the fort and raied the flag, there was no
                    captain of any kind of troops in 
                        Vincennes
                    . Upon the return of Father Gibault and his report of the proceedings of the inhabitants
                    of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Colonel Clark sent over a captain's commission (now in possession of the
                    writer) to Francis Bosseron. It was written in French, for Clark scarcely knew a word of French, nor
                    Bosseron of English. Translated, it reads as follows:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        "No. 1.
                        "By George Rogers Clark, Esqr., Colonel Commanding 
                                        East Illinois
                                     and its dependencies, etc., etc., etc.
                        "By virtue of the power and authority vested in me by his Excellency,
                                    Patrick Henry, Governor and First Magistrate of 
                                        Virginia
                                    , etc., I name, appoint and constitute you by these presents, captain of
                                    a militia company at 
                                        Poste Vincennes
                                    . In consequence of which you will carefully discharge all the duties
                                    pertaining to the same.
                        "Given under my hand and seal at Fort Clark, this 10th day of August,
                                    1778. G. R. CLARK."
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            The No. 1 at the left hand corner of the commission shows that it was the first commission issued by
                    him after he and his troops left the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     (now 
                        Louisville
                    ) on their expedition.
            
            Shannon, Alice's father, was conductor of the military stores at 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and Bosseron held the same position at 
                        Vincennes
                    . They necessarily were in close correspondence. In the letter of Shannon to Bosseron,
                    dated at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , June 15, 1779, referred to above, he concludes with the words, "My
                    compliments to Madame Bosseron," which he would not likely do unless their families were in
                    close social relations. Bosseron being rich and liberal, it is natural that he should step in and
                    protect the orphaned child of his friend. In this connection it may be remarked that no reference to
                    Bosseron or, indeed, to any other person as captain of the company of French inhabitants who took
                    possession of British Fort Sackville, is made by any of the Indiana historians. Law, Dillon, English
                    and even Mr. Dunn in his thorough history of early times of Indiana, all seem to have implicitly
                    followed Colonel Clark in his "Memoir." This was written by him several years
                    after the events occurred, and with a great number of events to relate from memory, he might well be
                    excused in making some omissions. It is due to the memory of Mr. Thompson to say that, after a very
                    thorough investigation of the subjects of which he wrote, he was the first historian, under the garb
                    of fiction, to give the name of the French captain above referred to.
            The incidents of the flag, in the main, are clearly historical, but there are some fictions
                    surrounding it. In Captain Bosseron's book of accounts against Captain Leonard Helm, as the
                    representative or agent of the State of 
                        Virginia
                    , he makes, among others, these entries:
            
               
                  1778:
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nov. 4.
                  For having raised the company
                  
                     *500
                  "
                  —
                  "
               
               
                  Nov. 12.
                  Paid to St. Marie for 5 ells of red serge for the flag, at 9
                  45
                  "
                  —
                  "
               
               
                   
                  Paid to Mr. Dajenet for 3 3/4 ells of green serge at 10
                  37
                  "
                  10
                  "
               
               
                   
                  Paid Madame Goderre for making the flag
                  25
                  "
                  —
                  "
               
            
            
               
                  * See footnotes p. 85.
            
            
            From these entries we can obtain almost a full and precise description of the flag. It consisted of
                    two stripes—one of red and the other of green. The extra length of the red stripe of 1
                    3/4 ells —the French ell being 40 inches in length—being taken off to form the
                    shield in its proper place, left the flag about 11 feet in length. Whether or not a coat of arms was
                    blazoned on the shield is not known. Nor is it known exactly what the cost price was. From the
                    figures of Captain Bosseron, whether in French currency or in 
                        Virginia
                     currency of $3.33 1/2 to the pound, as was usual afterward, it would be a
                    very costly flag.* But it was a famous flag for the reason that it
                    was the first American flag in all that vast extent of country. * *
                    * The quartermaster's office in the War Department at 
                        Washington City
                     and Lossing's Field Book of the Revolution contain an abundance of flag lore,
                    but they contain no instance of a display of an American flag west of the Atlantic States.
            As to the other characters and events mentioned in "Alice," they were either known
                    to the general reader of 
                        Vincennes
                     history or are fictitious. The writer knew "Alice" well in her old
                    age. It so happened that her youngest son, named William Shannon, after her father, and the writer
                    were playmates together, and their families being near neighbors, he often visited her house. In her
                    personal appearance and character she was well described by the author. But he states several times
                    that she was not to be regarded as beautiful. The writer would have thought otherwise, and that in
                    her girlhood days she must have been a beautiful girl. The most prominent features of her character
                    were her independence and kindiness. She was, in fact, such a woman that the men would have called
                    her "grand old lady" and the ladies "a sweet old lady."
            
               
                  * Both Judge Lasselle and Mr. Smith, in commenting upon this,
                        seem to be confused as to the currency. There can be no question, however, that in the account
                        book, where the denominations are represented by ditto marks, the large denomination is
                        "livre" (one-fifth of a "piastre," or Spanish dollar, and
                        about 18 1/2 or 19 1/2 cents of our money), and the smaller is "sol" (modern
                        "sou," being about one-twentieth of the livre and therefore about the same as
                        our cent), both French. For "having raised the company" the charge was
                        therefore $95—-$100, the total cost of the
                        "flag" was a little more,
                            $100–$103."—Editor.
            
         
         
         
            THE LAST OF AN INDIAN VILLAGE
            ON March 16th and 17th the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News and other papers contained news of the discovery, on the east bank of the
                        Wabash river three miles south of 
                        Lafayette
                    , of an old Indian burial ground. The substance of the report was that "Michael
                    O'Brien, who lives on Sand Ridge, had discovered half an acre of bones, human and animal,
                    deer antlers, shells, etc., beside the Rising Clubhouse."
            Before this publication Mr. Alva O. Reser, well known to many of the readers of this magazine, and an
                    authority upon the early history of Indiana, visited the place. He has kindly sent a full account of
                    the most important circumstances in a letter dated 
                        Lafayette
                    , May 2d, 1908.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        "I was on the ground before any of the bones were carried away, Mr.
                                    O'Brien having telephoned to me. I went down on a boat and landed about a
                                    quarter of a mile below the mouth of the Wea, on the east side. The overflow of the 
                                        Wabash
                                     had washed away a seeming mound of sand, and there were human bones
                                    scattered over a surface about the size of a half-acre, and the bones were about as
                                    thick as corn stalks in a corn field. Most of the bones were broken. It seemed that
                                    the 
                                        Wabash
                                     had just about washed down to the position of the dead and in one
                                    instance we found the legs, and with a stick scratched out all the bones of the
                                    upper extremities and head. The body seemed to, be with head to the west. There were
                                    scattered around a large number of pieces of deer horns, and many burned rocks and
                                    shells. This was undoubtedly the site of an Indian village, and it was just across
                                    the river from where Ft. Ouiatenon had been. Just below Ouiatenon. on the west side
                                    of the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , a ditch was lately dug through a sand ridge, and many bones and Indian
                                    relics found. A few years ago at this point a front bone of the arm was found with a
                                    silver bracelet on it. There is no doubt that the land just below the mouth of the
                                    Wea was a scene of great activity in the early days, because of the many relics,
                                    bones  and things used by the people found there.
                                    Part of an oven, the shape and all preserved, has been found."
                     
                  
               
                
            This Indian village was in existence from early in the eighteenth century, probably before 1718.
                    According to the best evidences (cf. Dillon, Indiana, pp. 262, 401–403, and Dunn,
                    Indiana, pp. 49–50) the principal village was two or three miles lower down the river on
                    the same side. As Indian villages were not very substantial, the relatively large population
                    centering around the rapids which marked the head of navigation for the larger boats, may well have
                    shifted from place to place. Certainly at many times there was a large number of Indians living on
                    the site where these bones have been unearthed. Largely on this account the French fort of Ouiatenon
                    was established (about 1720) at this part of the river on the opposite side. The French post
                    probably drew an increased Indian population. We hear of Kickapoos and Musquattimes dwelling on the
                    west side very near the fort. The Weas were chiefly on the east side and their warriors were at
                    times estimated as high as a thousand or twelve hundred. Trade in furs and skins was carried on here
                    on a large scale, being valued between 1764 and 1775 at something like 28,000 annually.
            The small French post, as is well known, came into the possession of the English after the French and
                    Indian War. During Pontiac's conspiracy the little garrison was taken captive and held as
                    prisoners by the Indians of the neighborhood, who were inclined to be friendly themselves, but
                    yielded to this extent to the plans of the other Indians. The post apparently was not reestablished
                    and the stockade with its dozen or so enclosed dwellings soon decayed. The site is now marked by a
                    monument.
            About ten or twelve years later most of the Indians were gathered in a village (Kath-tip-e-ca-nunk)
                    some eighteen miles up the river on the west side. During the troubles with the Indians which arose
                    after the American conquest of the Northwest, these towns were raided by the Americans. Full reports
                    of the raids of Brigadier-Generals Scott and Williamson in 1791, in which comparatively few Indians
                    were killed, but in which their towns, including the one in question, were destroyed, can be read in
                    Dillon's History of Indiana, pp. 263–5, 271.
         
         
         
            THE BEGINNINGS OF IRVINGTON.
            
               FROM NOTES BY SYLVESTER JOHNSON.
            
               By Request.
            IN Sulgrove's History of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Marion county
                    , pp. 620–1, a brief history is given of 
                        Irvington
                    , until recently a suburb, now a part of the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            One of the original promoters of the town, Air. Sylvester Johnson, is now living at an advanced age
                    in 
                        Irvington
                    , and it may not be superfluous to complete the account there given by facts recited by
                    Mr. Johnson or gleaned from the records.
            Much of the land now occupied by 
                        Irvington
                    , about four and a half miles east of the center of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was entered from the government by John Hendricks, January 14th, 1826. The central
                    quarter section, lying along the National Road, belonged in 1870 to the Sanduskys, then living in
                            
                  Louisville, Ky.
               , and was used as a dairy farm. In that year, on June 30th, it was
                    bought by Jacob Julian and Sylvester Johnson, both of 
                        Centerville
                    , Ind., for $100 an acre, or a total of $32,000. The tract is now
                    bounded by 
                        Michigan
                     street on the north, Arlington avenue on the east, Ritter avenue on the west and a line
                    from 300 to 400 feet north of the 
                        Brookville
                     pike on the south. It was bought with the purpose of laying out a suburban town.
            The town was laid out November 7th, 1870, with the name 
                        Irvington
                    , given by Nr. Julian, at the suggestion of his daughter, Mary Julian Downey, in honor
                    of 11-ashington Irving. In the meanwhile Air. Johnson had visited Glendale (near 
                        Cincinnati
                    ), perhaps the best known suburban town in this part of the country at that time, and
                    had got the idea of 11-inding streets, which has become the best known characteristic of 
                        Irvington
                    . The tract was laid out with the plan of having the streets run along the low places,
                    leaving the higher locations for building lots. Julian and Johnson avenues were run along one of the
                    pronounced lines of drainage. A provision, copied by Mr. Johnson from 
                  Colorado Springs, Colo.
               , was inserted in the deeds prohibiting the location of any distillery,
                    brewery or other offensive establishment,  and the selling or
                    permitting the sale of intoxicating liquors except for medicinal or industrial purposes on any of
                    the property on penalty of reversion of the ground to the original owner or his heirs. This
                    provision had been attacked in 
                        Colorado
                     and had been upheld by the State and the 
                        United States
                     courts. Another provision forbade the location of stables, hogpens, etc., within fifty
                    feet of any street, not an unimportant provision, as the plan of the town left no place for alleys.
                    Two circles, one at the intersection of University avenue and Audubon Road and the other just north
                    of the National Road, were set aside for public purposes, the former under the title Irving Circle
                    and the latter College Circle.
            Mr. James Downey, a son-in-law of Mr. Jacob Julian, moved to the proposed town and built there in
                    1871. Mr. Julian and Mr. Johnson also began to build in 1871 and moved to their new residences in
                    1872. Dr. Levi Ritter bought the land to the west of the new town and laid out an addition shortly
                    after. The town was soon incorporated. The present railroad station was secured in 1872, and with
                    that the new town was fairly launched.
         
         
            INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY CIRCULAR.
            [The following is the first circular issued by the Indiana Historical Society, a copy of which is now
                    in the possession of 
                        Vincennes
                     University.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 
                              
                           ,
                                    —, 1831. 
                        MY DEAR SIR:
                        The preceding abstract from the Constitution and Proceedings of the "Indiana
                                    Historical Society" exhibits an index of its character and n-ill, it is
                                    hoped, attract your favorable regard. In pursuance of the general objects of the
                                    society and in obedience to its resolutions, the corresponding secretary has the
                                    honor to address you, respectfully soliciting such aid. information and patronage as
                                    it may be in your power to afford. All communications addressed to the undersigned
                                    at 
                              Salem, Washington county
                           , Indiana, will be gratefully
                                    received, and whenever necessary, promptly acknowledged.
                        I have the honor to remain, with sentiments of respect, your obedient servant,
                                        JOHN H. FARNHAM. Corresponding Secretary
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            EDITORIAL.
            HISTORICAL SOCIETIES.
            The finished product of historical work has always proved deeply interesting when presented by such
                    masters as Bancroft, Prescott, Parkman or Rhodes. The work of individual research, also, which lies
                    at the bottom of all historical work of value, possesses a strong attraction for any one who embarks
                    in it, no matter whether at some obscure point or in some highly important and widely known
                    question. Cooperative historical work, however, has not yet received as much recognition in this
                    country as it should; not nearly so much as it has for a long time received in Europe. The reasons
                    are not far to seek. We have not yet realized the importance and the magnitude of the task of
                    preserving our history. There are not yet enough great questions among us whose satisfactory
                    solution has become forever impossible owing to the loss of material bearing upon them; not enough
                    documents lost whose importance, increased by time and the destruction of other evidence, stimulates
                    the effort to preserve other documents and collect other evidence which we still possess. Moreover,
                    the subject matter with which the historian deals is so comprehensive and yet so elusive that
                    cooperation is not always possible. Astronomers have planned with comparative ease cooperative
                    schemes of work in which most of the great observatories and scores of astronomers will probably be
                    engaged for generations. Scientists can deal with animate nature even with more or less fixed and
                    arbitrary divisions. But the record of men's thoughts and doings is so complex and the
                    subject so uncertain that no one can hope to call history an exact science. The channels,
                    accordingly, by which it is produced re-  main as yet for the
                    most part for a few individual workers to dig out.
            The need of cooperative work, however, is very apparent. There are questions whose solution, unless
                    they are to be left for chance and prejudice to settle, must be answered by historical research.
                    Many phases of our financial policy, numerous political and constitutional developments, race
                    questions, especially those involved in the relation of the races, are probably susceptible of
                    definite answer, if we only had adequate information, information which it is perfectly possible to
                    ascertain, but which can be gotten in full only by the combined efforts of government bureaus and
                    semi-public societies. In every field of historical work there are records lost, there is work
                    undone, both through lack of general interest and through lack of intelligent cooperation. There are
                    some matters covered over and over and some important matters left untouched.
            Recently great progress has been made toward better organization of historical work. Perhaps the
                    strongest influence comes from the American Historical Association. This, through its quarterly, The American Historical Review, through its annual meetings, through its numerous
                    and effective committees, has not only done much to introduce better methods of teaching history,
                    but has stimulated the collection of materials and has undertaken more or less systematic
                    cooperative work. As its membership is open to practically all who are interested in history, upon
                    payment of a slight fee, it embraces both well-known historians and amateurs. Its president for the
                    year 1908, Professor George B. Adams, of Yale University, also the chairman of the board of editors
                    of The American Historical Review, has long been active in promoting the ends of
                    the association. The association has two considerable prizes at its disposal, the Justin Winsor
                    prize and the Herbert Baxter Adams prize, awarded annually through committees for original work in
                    the field of American and European history. Among the more important committees are the Historical
                    Manuscripts Commission, Public Archives Commission (at present at work on the archives of  the Republic of 
                        Texas
                    ), and committees on bibliography and on publications.
            The Carnegie Institute, endowed by Nr. Carnegie to encourage and systematize original work in all
                    fields, has an historical department. Professor J. Franklin Jameson, formerly of the University of 
                        Chicago
                    , is at the head of this work. Among the tasks being undertaken under his direction are
                    the collection and publication of matter from European archives bearing upon American history and
                    the preparation of bibliographies of materials in the State library of each State in the Union
                    dealing with the economic development of that State and of the country at large. Some of this work
                    will doubtless prove comparatively barren, a mere heaping of document upon document, of title upon
                    title. But at least it will be done and the path of the future investigator will be made easier.
            Interesting developments have taken place in the historical circles of the middle West within the
                    last few months in the direction of the organizations of new agencies. Last year at 
                        Cincinnati
                     a two-days' conference was held, in connection with which the Ohio Talley
                    Historical Association was organized. This interstate movement, originating chiefly at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , aims to have regular meetings, and by these, together with the influence of its
                    officers and committees, to quicken the public interest in the history of the Ohio
                    Valley. It also proposes to coordinate work done in the different States in matters
                    common to the whole group of States. Several Indiana men attended the first meeting of the society
                    and will probably take part in its subsequent work.
            The work of State and local historical societies generally is usually discussed at some session of
                    the annual meeting of the American Historical Association. This session serves. somewhat informally,
                    as a clearing house for these organizations, and has its chairman and secretary who may be
                    considered as officers at large in this line of work. At the last session, in 
                  Madison, Wis.
               ,
                    the secretary, Professor Evarts B. Greene, of the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , reported great progress, especially in the middle West. in appropriations for
                    historical purposes and in new enterprises  undertaken, but
                    showed that appropriations were often not wisely made, that work such as editing was in some cases
                    being badly done, and that there was much waste.
            The semi-official report of the last session of this conference, which can be read in The American Historical Review for April, 1908, pp. 438–9, is very suggestive.
                    The principal subject was, "The Cooperation of State Historical Societies in the Gathering
                    of Material in Foreign Archives." After considerable discussion a committee of seven was
                    appointed to consider possible schemes of cooperation, consisting of Mr. Dunbar Rowland, director of
                    the Department of Archives and History in 
                        Mississippi
                    , chairman; W. C. Ford, E. B. Greene, J. F. Jameson, T. M. Owen, B. F. Shambaugh and R.
                    G. Thwaites. This committee will doubtless have a report which will be of interest to Indiana, in as
                    much as much of our early history is involved in documents which belong also to the history of
                            
                  Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Louisiana
                and other States.
            The cooperation of local historical societies was similarly discussed on the basis of a paper by Ur.
                    John F. Ayer, secretary of the Bay State Historical League, a union of local historical societies in 
                        Massachusetts
                     which has apparently been successful in widening the field of work and increasing the
                    membership of the several organizations composing it.
            Another organization also came to life at the meeting of the American Historical Association at 
                        Madison
                    —the Mississippi Valley Historical Association. The
                    object of this body apparently is to serve as a means of putting into effect plans of cooperation
                    betu-een State historical societies. It is to be made up of men active in these. The executive
                    committee consists of Dr. Thomas M. Owen, president; Professor Clarence W. Alvord, vice president;
                    Clarence S. Paine. secretary-treasurer; Dr. Reuben G. Thwaites and George W. Martin. The
                        Mississippi Valley seems in many ways to afford a more natural and more
                    important grouping of States than the Ohio Valley and though there is doubtless
                    room for the latter for the purpose of holding annual conferences and doing other work, the former
                    is admirably adapted to serve as 2 basis of cooperation between State societies.
            
            There is danger amid this multiplicity of organizations that the machinery will fairly stifle the
                    workers. There is danger also that magic efficacy may be attributed to societies. It is the
                    individual, and the individual alone, who does the work. He may be helped by associations, but no
                    association ever accomplished anything of itself. It is to be hoped that these recent developments
                    are not simply manifestations of the tendency to organize, but symptoms of the beginning of more
                    active work and more intelligent cooperation.
            Meanwhile in Indiana we are making progress. The article by our State Archivist, Dr. Harlow Lindley,
                    in this number, shows that at least one step has been taken in the right direction by the State
                    government. The possibilities of general work are becoming more and more apparent. Many people have
                    been interested in Indiana history. The separate incidents and episodes of that history have been
                    written up unusually well. The early French settlements, the capture of 
                        Vincennes
                     by Clark, the political contest for and against slavery, the Indian troubles, and many
                    other chapters are probably as well known as events of similar importance in any State of the Union.
            But in many lines of study we have almost everything yet to do. In collections of important original
                    documents and transcripts we are, as has repeatedly been shown, far behind even neighboring States.
                    In the study of some of the most importance: phases of our history we hardly have the data for
                    beginning work. It is of the utmost importance that broader interest and better cooperation be
                    secured. For instance, the immigration into the State from the time of the American occupation
                    combines perhaps more questions and is of more general interest than any other development. A
                    comprehensive study of it would require the cooperation of State and local historical societies and
                    all other suitable agencies within our borders. With such a combination continued for some time, it
                    would probably be possible to trace all important currents of immigration and point our subsequent
                    tendencies growing out of them. Would it not be possible for the State Historical Society to
                    concentrate the efforts  of all historical agencies in the State
                    for a definite period upon such a subject, and while not ignoring other things which individual
                    investigators might in the meantime here and there turn up, devote its publications, its meetings,
                    and its influence chiefly to that one topic? The character of the publications already put out by
                    the State Historical Society challenges comparison with those of any other State. But they have been
                    the result of scattering, individual effort alone, and represent practically the labor of the few
                    men whose names are attached to the various articles. Would not a greater general interest and
                    cooperation be secured by a mass movement upon some one question or set of questions in our history?
                    If a question of present, vital interest, not one of mere antiquarian concern, were chosen, there is
                    no reason why universal cooperation could not be secured. Early internal improvements present a
                    matter of investigation that might well enlist such an effort, especially in view of the present
                    interest in interior waterways and the conservation of natural resources. A practical value of such
                    work would lie in the possibility that future mistakes might be avoided by a clearer understanding
                    of past experience. The study of political parties could nowhere be better prosecuted than in
                    Indiana, which has been for several generations one of their fiercest battlefields. The relation of
                    national politics and local affairs, the influence of national parties upon local government, might
                    very well be made the subject of such a cooperative study as has been suggested.
            Our local historical societies apparently need some such stimulus as this. So far as known to this
                    magazine, not more than three or four county historical societies show many signs of activity. 
                        Henry
                    , 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Monroe
                     counties especially are simply exceptions to the general lethargy. The trouble seems to
                    be not so much in the inability to do anything or in the lack of means, but in the lack of an
                    interesting and important purpose or of intelligent direction. At times past suggestive meetings at
                    least have been held, and some good publications gotten out by such county organizations as those of
                    Lake and 
                        Wabash
                     counties, or such groups as the Northern Indiana Historical Society. A  concerted movement in a common field would probably revive many groups
                    that now resemble extinct volcanoes.
            There has been considerable discussion recently of possible cooperation between the State Historical
                    Society and local societies. In our next number we hope to give a short account of the work of these
                    agencies in 
                        Wisconsin
                    , which is probably the leading State in the West in this respect. Meanwhile reports
                    from local societies, and contributions of papers produced in them, and discussions of the general
                    subject of these remarks will be welcome.
         
         
            NOTES.
            HENRY COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
            The twenty-second annual meeting of this, the most flourishing county historical society in the State
                    of Indiana, was held Thursday, April 30th, 1908, at the Historical Society Building, No. 614 South
                    Fourteenth street, 
                        Newcastle
                    . In the printed program a very interesting session was arranged for, including among
                    other numbers presentation of new material for the historical, biographical and portrait
                    collections, and an "illustration exercise of pioneer methods of preparing and spinning
                    flax and wool on the old-time little wheel, and also on the great wheel," by 
                        Spiceland
                     township people, who were familiar with the work.
            The annual session of the Caroline Scott Harrison Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution
                    was held at the home of Mrs. C. S. Sargent, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , May 14th. The secretary, Mrs. W. C. Buell, reported $400 now available for
                    a memorial of Mrs. Harrison, for whom the chapter is named, in the Continental Hall at 
                        Washington
                    . The registrar, Mrs. W. S. R. Tarkington, reported the present membership as two
                    hundred and fifty, of whom twenty-three are life members.
            The Anthony Wayne Memorial Association has been formed at 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     with officers as follow: Chairman, Captain H. W. 
                    Dickman; vice-chairman, Captain W. F. Geller; second vice-chairman, Captain Harry Clark; secretary,
                    W. A. Carmer; treasurer, Colonel S. K. Kelker. The object of the association is to petition Congress
                    for an appropriation sufficient to erect on the site of the old fort a suitable memorial building,
                    in which armories may be established for all the military companies in the city, as well as a museum
                    of local history and an assembly-room.
            Mr. Jacob P. Dunn, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , has been appointed to special service in collecting information about the languages
                    spoken by the Indian tribes formerly dwelling in this part of the country, under the direction of
                    the National Bureau of Ethnology.
         
         
         
            REVIEWS OF BOOKS.
            THE HISTORY OF ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INDIANA.
            Timothy E. Howard, formerly on the State Supreme Court Bench, has not ceased working for the State
                    because he no longer holds office. "The History of 
                        St. Joseph county
                    " is his latest service to the commonwealth. As president of the Northern
                    Indiana Historical Society Judge Howard has kept alive his interest in literary and historical
                    questions.
            It is wise to prepare such a history before the pioneers have passed away and while many of the early
                    written documents are in existence. The field covered by blr. Howard is a very large one, as can be
                    seen by the two large volumes and the topics discussed: The geology of the county; the early French
                    explorers, Marquette and La Salle; the first settlers; the treaties with the Indians; the
                    incorporation of the county; the history of 
                        South Bend
                    ; the schools; public improvements; the civil war, with lists of officers and privates;
                    the manufacturing establishments; the biographies.
            The most important portions of the history are the narrative of the early settlements, the lists of
                    soldiers, the biographies and the account of the schools, including Notre Dame University. One
                    criticism will stand against this, namely, that not enough consideration is given to the school
                    history. Factories are important, but not so important as education. The part of the work on the
                    biographies of citizens of the county makes up the largest portion of Mr. Howard's labors,
                    and properly, too, because after all, everything centers in men, in individuals.
            Mr. Howard has evidently done this work with a loving and sympathetic heart. He is in sympathy with
                    the Indians, with the early settlers in their hard experiences, and with the younger generation in
                    its efforts to improve the commercial and social conditions of the community. There is a good index.
                    Two volumes. 1908: The Lewis Publishing Company, 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        New York
                    .
            DEMARCHUS C. BROWN.
         
         
         
            THE COMMUNITY AND THE CITIZEN.
            [By Arthur W. Dunn. Two hundred and sixty-eight pages. 
                        Boston
                    , 
                        D. C.
                     Heath & Co. 1907.]
            A new system of teaching civics has been in process of development in 
                        Indianapolis
                     public schools for several years past. A half-year course is now given in the latter
                    part of the eighth grade, and the same or longer period may be given to it in the high schools. With
                    the cooperation and direction of the superintendent of schools, Mr. C. N. Kendall, the work of
                    developing the course of study has been carried on largely by Mr. Arthur W. Dunn, head of the
                    Department of History and Civics in Shortridge High School. "The Community and the
                    Citizen" represents the fairly complete results of Mr. Dunn's effort to construct
                    a line of study at once simple and vital, and unless the reviewer is mistaken, will be instrumental
                    in marking an epoch in this line of work in our public schools.
            It is interesting to note that the present conception of the subject is quite different from the idea
                    of civil government which formerly prevailed in the schools. The latter treated only of the
                    organization of local, State and national government, together with instruction upon such subjects
                    as qualification of voters, 
                        United States
                     constitution and party politics. The present book treats of all the interests of
                    community life. It is essentially a sort of elementary sociology. Among the chapter headings noted
                    are "The Site of a Community," "The Family," "How the
                    Community Aids the Citizen to Satisfy His Desire for Health," "How the Community
                    Aids the Citizen in Transportation and Communication," "How the Community Aids the
                    Citizen to Satisfy His Desire for Knowledge," "How the Citizens of a Community
                    Govern Themselves," "Some Defects in the Self-Government of Our
                    Communities," "How the Expenses of Government Are Met."
            Another notable advance that Mr. Dunn has made is that the pupil is interested in a practical way
                    from the very first in his own immediate surroundings, the water supply, the schools, the city
                    parks, etc., and his further study is made to consist largely of finding out how these things are
                    brought about, and how  they may be improved. It is a trite
                    maxim of teaching that instruction should proceed from the known to the unknown, from the immediate
                    to the remote, but nowhere else has the reviewer found this point of view really carried out in the
                    study of civics. To begin with local government, proceed to State and then to national government,
                    as many text-books of civics do, is not of itself sufficient, for the intricacies of city
                    government, the details of its organization are actually as remote from the pupil, and from the
                    average citizen, alas, as are the agencies of government at 
                        Washington
                    . One of the means Mr. Dunn used in the development of his method is local history. To
                    quote the prefac.
            "A feature of the book is the use made of local history. It is believed that a contribution
                    is made toward the solution of the problem of how to employ local history effectively in the
                    schools. Few local communities have a history that touches the main stream of national history in an
                    intimate way, so that it. is difficult to make use of local developments in connection with the
                    history of the 
                        United States
                    . Still, every community has a history that may be made instructive."
            As can be readily seen, there are difficulties in the way of the new civics. It can not be learned
                    and taught all from the book. A separate text can scarcely be printed for every city and town. And
                    so the Dunn's "Community and the Citizen" can only give an order of
                    developing the subject, general principles, suggestions and illustrations, and the teachers of each
                    city must work out the subject for their own community for and with their pupils. This requires
                    energy and intelligence, requirements that the old method of teaching civics do not usually make.
                    But the work should prove interesting and if thoroughly carried out should prove the most valuable
                    work that can be done in any of our city schools.
            The book is copiously illustrated by reproductions of photographs which bring out most excellently
                    points made in the text. Pictures of neat and of slovenly residences, of good and bad streets, of
                    river banks used for dumping grounds contrasted with pictures of river banks made beautiful by
                    roadways and parks tell a very impressive story. Supplemented as they could easily be by photographs
                    made or collected by any teacher in  her own locality, these
                    pictures will enforce a lesson which it is to be hoped will make the American citizen of the future
                    more public spirited and our communities better places to live in than we now enjoy.
            C. B. COLEMAN.
         
         
            GENERAL JOHN TIPTON.
            Mr. M. M. Pershing, editor of the 
                  
                            Tipton
                         Advocate, has recently written and published a sketch of General John Tipton.
                    He briefly summarizes the career of 
                        Tipton
                     as soldier, senator and citizen. The description of the march from Corydon to the
                    battlefield of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and the account of the battle itself are enlivened by extracts from 
                        Tipton
                    's journal, bad spelling and all. The bitter hatred of 
                        Tipton
                     against the Indians is clearly pointed out.
            
               
                        Tipton
                     was a member of the commission which selected the site for the capital of the State. He
                    was afterward a member of the 
                        United States
                     Senate (1831-'38), and a leader in the development of the commonwealth.
            It is a matter of congratulation that some were thoughtful enough to commemorate him by naming a
                    county 
                        Tipton
                    .
            Mr. Pershing deserves credit for this work on early Indiana history. (Printed for private
                    circulation.)
         
         
            
               Beginnings of 
                            Indianapolis
                         School System—A contribution to educational history that is worthy
                    of especial note is a series of articles by Prof. A. C. Shortridge on the beginnings of the present 
                        Indianapolis
                     school system appearing in the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News under date of March 14, 21 and 28, and April 4 and 11, 1908. Professor
                    Shortridge, now superannuated and long since out of active school work, may fairly be regarded as
                    the father of certain features that make the 
                        Indianapolis
                     schools to-day among the best in the country. He became superintendent of the public
                    schools of the city in 1863, and served in that capacity for eleven years, during which the high
                    school, the public library, the Teachers' Training School and education for the negroes
                    were all developed as parts of a growing system. This was at a time when public sentiment was not
                    educated as it is to-day, and it required strenuous and persistent effort to  promote growth. Mr. Shortridge, more than any other man, was
                    instrumental in securing much that is established to-day. and he is the only man now living that can
                    tell the details of much of the educational history of that period. Some things that have remained
                    unrecorded or been recorded erroneously, he now sets forth authoritatively. In preparing his
                    articles for the press Mr. Shortridge has been seriously handicapped, being blind and virtually
                    without assistance. This part of his task has been long preparing, and that he has at last got it
                    into print is a matter for congratulation. Professor Shortridge, now seventy-five years old, is held
                    in honored remembrance in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and "Shortridge High School," of that city, is a monument to him
                    that will carry his name into the future.
            
               Indian History.—Jacob P. Dunn, who is the recognized authority on the
                    Indians of Indiana, has recently published in the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News, several articles on the aborigines. On the 14th of December last
                    appeared "Little Turtle, of the Miamis," December 21, "Little
                    Turtle's Rout by 
                        Wayne
                    ;" January 4, "Indian Witches Burned to Death" (by the
                    Prophet, at the 
                        Delaware
                     towns); March 21, "The Defense of Fort Harrison:" April 17,
                    "The Removal of the Potawottomis from Northern Indiana;" April 25, "When
                    Fall Creek Ran with Blood" (the famous hangings at Pendleton for Indian murders); May 23,
                    "The Pigeon Roost Massacre; May 30, "Logan the Brave Saved 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ." Most of these themes have been treated before, but Mr. Dunn has considered
                    them with more thoroughness than the casual newspaper writer, and developed some items hitherto
                    unused.
         
      
   
