
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 22, Issue 3, pages 229-333. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:22+issue:3+year:1926&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Development or The Common Schools of Indiana To 1851
            OTHO LIONEL NEWMAN,
                    A.M.
            SOURCES
                    OF
                    THE PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM
                    OF INDIANA
            
            The splendid system of public schools of Indiana, unsurpassed by that of any
                    other in the world, did not spring fully organized from the head of any one
                    parent organization, but has developed slowly from many sources, here a little
                    and there a little, year by year, decade by decade, progressing steadily to its
                    highly organized present state.
            The various ideas from which the system was developed came from as many different
                    sources as did the pioneers themselves. From 
                        New England
                     came the ideas of the township; with the southern immigrants came
                    the notion of county administration; the middle section contributed ideas of the
                    district system. Thus our system as finally worked out is a combination of these
                    three ideas.
            ORDINANCES
                    OF
                    THE OLD CONGRESS
            
            One basis for our public schools is found in the Ordinance of 1785 of the
                    Congress of the Confederation, which was passed, May 20, 1785. In that ordinance
                    this sentence is found:1
            
            
               
                  1 P. J. Treat, National Land System,
                            Origin of the Public Domain, 398.
            
            
            
                    There shall be reserved the lot No. 16 of every township, for the maintenance
                        of public schools, within the said township.
                
            This was the first ordinance for the disposal of the public lands of the 
                        United States
                    ; the sixteenth section so donated formed the basis for a portion of
                    the permanent school fund of Indiana. The money afterwards received from the
                    sale of sections sixteen now forms the congressional township fund.
            Another law which greatly influenced the future welfare of the northwest was the
                    famous Ordinance of 1787, said to be the most important piece of legislation of
                    the old congress. Article three reads, in part: 
                        Religion, morality, and knowledge, being necessary to good government and
                            the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of education shall
                            forever be encouraged.
                    
                
            In this sentence is expressed one of the leading purposes of state schools;
                    namely, the education of children in order that the state may have intelligent
                    citizens; and, as a result, may have good government. The fathers of the
                    republic realized a century and a half ago that educated citizens are necessary
                    for the survival of those democratic principles for which they contended with
                    the mother country. This is the main if not the only justification for the
                    taking charge, by the state, of the education of its future citizens by means of
                    the public schools. The sentence quoted above has served largely as an ideal
                    towards which the state has worked in forming its public school system.
            VINCENNES UNIVERSITY
            
            During Indiana's territorial existence very little was accomplished
                    towards the end of establishing schools of any kind. The pioneers were too busy
                    building homes, clearing the land, and defending themselves from wild beasts and
                    wilder men. What education their children received was, for the most part, that
                    given by their mothers, with no equipment, and with few or no books, excepting,
                    perhaps, a family Bible. One example that showed the difficulty of getting a
                    little book knowledge during the period of territorial Indiaia  and the first years under the first constitution
                    was 
                        Abraham Lincoln
                    .
            The only record that I have found of any action taken by the governing powers of
                    the territorial period was an act passed by the legislature for the
                    incorporation of 
                        Vincennes
                     University, and making provision for its organization and
                    government, for the sale of the school township, and for financing the
                        school.2 A noteworthy feature of this early piece of
                    legislation was a provision that a school for females should be established.
                    Thus early did the future state ecognize that equal opportunities should be
                    given the sexes. Another feature was the establishment of a grammar school in
                    connection with the University. In these two features we note that higher
                    education received attention before any provision was made for elementary.
            THE ENABLING ACT
            
            This indicates that the legislature was inclined to cater to the desires of the
                    higher class of society rather than to the needs of the commoners. Was that
                    because the governing class belonged to the aristocracy of the 
                        Virginia
                     seaboard, or was it owing to the influence of the church?
            In order that the provisions quoted from the two ordinances of the old congress
                    might be carried into effect by the new state of Indiana, congress provided in
                    the Enabling Act for statehood that section sixteen of every congressional
                    township should be reserved for the use of public schools.3
            
            In addition, a reservation was made of salt springs, not exceeding thirty-six
                    sections, which might be used by the legislature at its discretion, and not
                    offered for sale by the government. The proceeds of the later sale of these
                    springs were made a part of the permanent school fund of the state. Also, a
                    whole township was reserved for the use of a state seminary of learning.
            CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION
                    OF 1816
            In conformity to the Enabling Act of Congress, a constitutional convention met at
                    Corydon, June 12, 1816. There is no 
                  
                     2
                            Laws of Indiana Territory 1806, p. 6, Chap. V.
                  
                     3 Enabling Act, Rev. Laws of
                            Indiana, 1824, p. 32, sec. 6, 1816.
               
                     history of the proceedings of this
                    convention other than that contained in its Journal of
                    sixty-nine pages. This is only a bare record of its proceedings. No debates were
                    recorded.
            Resolution ten of the proceedings referred to schools. It is as follows: 
                        Resolved, That a committee be appointed to draft an article concerning
                            education and the universal dissemination of useful knowledge, and other
                            subjects which it may be proper to enjoin or recommend to the
                            legislature to provide for.4
                  
                    
                
            This committee made its report to the convention on June 25, which report was
                    read a second time the next day, and, with but slight amendment, was referred to
                    the committee of general revisions. It was passed as Article IX of the
                    constitution, June 27. This constitutes all that is known of the educational
                    proceedings in the convention of 1816.5
            
            In Article IX of the constitution, only a part of which deals with schools, the
                    aim of education is stated in language similar to that used in the Ordinance of
                    1787. 
                        Knowledge and power generally diffused through a community, is essential
                            and conducive to a free government.6
                  
                    
                
            The men of that convention, like those of the old congress, had a clear vision
                    that a democratic government should be based on an educated citizenry; and that
                    it was the duty of the state to provide for this education.
            Authority was therefore given in this same article for making use of the land
                    donated by congress to the end for which it was given; but the money to be
                    derived from the sale of such land should constitute a permanent fund, the
                    interest, only, of which was to be used. This money formed the basis for the
                    permanent school funds of the state.
            Section two of the same Article IX outlines broadly the nature of the school
                    system that should be instituted: 
                        It shall be the duty of the General Assembly, as soon as circumstances
                            will permit, to provide by law for a general system of education, 
                        
                           4 Proceeding of Convention of 1816, in Proc. Ind. Bar Assn., 1912, p. 161.
                        
                           5
                                    Ibid, pp. 218 and 222. The members of that
                                    committee were: John Badollet. 
                                        Knox County
                                    ; James Scott, Clark: William Polka, Knox; Dan Lynn,
                                    Posey: John Boone, Harrison.
                        
                           6 Set. 1, Art. IX, Constitution
                                1816.
                     
                             ascending in a regular gradation,
                            from township schools to a state university, wherein tuition shall be
                            gratis, and equally open to all.7
                  
                    
                
            This sentence is replete with commands, and contains the nucleus of the whole
                    school system. It provided for all grades of schools from the kindergarten to
                    the university. The system must be general. There was to be no favoritism, no
                    partiality to any class. The new commonwealth must have all its future citizens
                    intelligent men and women. The state was made the agent of control of the public
                    schools, that it may require educated, intelligent citizens to administer the
                    government.
            The provision that schools must be "open to all" showed
                    wonderful foresight in the men of the convention. For, the idea that the masses
                    should be educated was not commonly accepted at that time. So at its very birth
                    Indiana took an advanced step in making provision for educating its future
                    citizens. This seems the stranger when it is remembered that the bulk of the
                    pioneers who settled Indiana came from south of Mason and Dixon's Line,
                    where the three classes of society were quite distinct, and commoners received
                    little education and the slaves none.
            When it is remembered that the commoners supplied the immigrants for the regions
                    west of the mountains, the reason for the conditions mentioned are plain. The
                    higher class did not migrate; poorer farmers of the higher parts in the west
                    part of the state were the ones who settled 
                        Kentucky
                     and later crossed into Indiana. Thousand of the same class also
                    came from 
                        North Carolina
                     into 
                        Kentucky
                     and thence into Indiana. 
                        Jefferson
                     preached his democracy to the aristocrats; but the commoners were
                    the ones to accept his doctrines and carry them westward. These were the men who
                    settled 
                        Kentucky
                     and then Indiana. Possibly their personal freedom away from the
                    centers of government had as much to do with their democracy as any political
                    teachings.
            The first provisions made for raising revenue for schools was that found in the
                    constitution, in the same article, wherein it provided that money paid for
                    exemptions from military service and also for fines for law violations should be
                    used for 
                  
                     7
                            Ibid.
               
                     the support of county seminaries. Provision
                    for higher education first received attention from the convention.
            Thus by the Ordinance of 1785, the Ordinance of 1787, the Enabling Act and the
                    Constitution of 1816, was authority given for the founding of a common school
                    system in Indiana. The builders builded well; for the foundation laid by them
                    has made it possible for those who followed them to place Indiana in the front
                    rank respecting her system of free schools, although it required about a century
                    to complete the structure.
            THE TOWNSHIP-DISTRICT ERA
            
            The constitution gave broad powers to the people, through their legislature, to
                    establish a system of free schools for the new state. It was made the imperative
                    duty of the General Assembly to provide for the education of the future citizens
                    of the state at public expense.
            However, this mandate was qualified by the clause, "as soon as
                    circumstances will permit."8 This clause served as
                    a convenient loophole through which the legislators managed to escape for a
                    number of years. Except in a limited way, school legislation was postponed from
                    year to year for various reasons, good and poor.
            Such a system as was provided for would require time to organize; it could not be
                    created in a day, but could come only through growth. Further than that, there
                    was little demand at that time for an elaborate school system. The people were
                    not ready for it. They were too busily engaged in building homes, in clearing
                    the land, in providing food and other necessities for their families, and in
                    protecting them and their property. All members of the family, who were able to
                    do so, were needed to assist in these duties. In fact, the people were not yet
                    ready for the luxury of an education. For their present needs, sufficient
                    teaching could be obtained from some member of the family, or, possibly from the
                    church.
            Furthermore, there were no funds with which to support schools. Although congress
                    had generously given of its public lands for school purposes, yet these lands
                    were unsold; nor 
                  
                     8 Constitution, Art. IX, Sec. 2.
               
                     could they be sold to advantage while
                    government land of the best kind was selling at one dollar and a quarter an
                    acre. If settlers had enough cash to make a payment on government land, they
                    chose to do that. If they could not make a payment, they could become squatters
                    without any trouble. If the school lands were rented, the income from a section
                    would be very small, probably not to exceed a hundred dollars a year.
            Since there was but little money in circulation among the pioneers, they could
                    pay but little taxes except "in kind". For these and other reasons,
                    schools could be held only by voluntary subscriptions by the settlers of a
                    community; or, as occasionally happened, a private or subscription school might
                    be conducted by a teacher, who solicited pupils. The settlers who were in good
                    circumstances financially sometimes employed tutors for their own families.
            SCHOOL LEGISLATION
                    OF
                    THE FIRST GENERAL ASSEMBLY
            
            The First General Assembly passed an act that formed a starting point for the
                    organization of a school system. This act did three things:9
            
            First, it provided for the care of the reserved sections.10
            
            The county commissioners were required to appoint a superintendent of lands for
                    the school section of each township. His duty was to lease these lands on the
                    best terms possible.
            Any fines arising from a breach of contract by the lessees were to be placed in
                    the county treasury for the benefit of the school section affected. This
                    established a precedent for having all fines for breaches of the peace placed in
                    the permanent school funds. If, however, the fines assessed were against the
                    lessees of the seminary or salt springs lands, said fines were to be placed in
                    the state treasury. This seminary fund later became a part of the permanent
                    school funds, also.
            Secondly, the legislature attempted to carry out the mandate of the constitution
                    by making provisions for organizing free elementary schools.11
            
            
               
                  9
                        Laws of Indiana, 1816, pp. 104–108.
               
                  10
                  Ibid, Sections 1, 2, 3, 4.
               
                  11 Constitution, Art. IX, See. 2.
            
            
            This act established the congressional township as the basis for the
                    administration, and provided that whenever twenty householders, who were
                    residents of a congressional township, should petition the county commissioners
                    for the organization of a school corporation, an election should be called for
                    the purpose of choosing three trustees, who, when they had qualified by taking
                    the oath of office and by giving bond, should be considered a body corporate,
                    with full power to make by-laws for the transaction of school affairs. This was
                    all that the first session did towards the establishment of common schools.12
            
            Thirdly, the act provided for the appointment of a superintendent for the
                    seminary or college township, and for the salt spring at French Lick, and made
                    provision for the care of these.
            GOVERNOR JENNINGS FAVORS COMMON SCHOOLS
            
            The governors of Indiana were all favorable to common schools, if they may be
                    judged by their messages to the legislature. In his message opening the second
                    session of the General Assembly, Gov. Jonathan Jennings recommended that the
                    mandate of the constitution relative to the organization of common schools be
                    carried out. He gave three sound reasons why the state ought to assume the
                    burden of the education of its children. The first was to fit the child for his
                    life duties; this is a vocational aim. The second reason was to secure the
                    morals of the rising generation. The third stated a patriotic aim, to fit the
                    children to become good citizens of the state and of the republic. These are all
                    good pedagogical aims. Yet Governor Jennings is not frequently quoted by
                    pedagogical writers. He evidently knew some of the principles.13
            
            His was the first suggestion for the constitutional organization of the public
                    schools. The only result of his suggestion was the re-enactment of the law
                    passed by the preceding session.14 The senate, however, did
                    discuss another bill in the 
                  
                     12
                            Laws of Indiana, 1816, Ch. V.
                  
                     13
                            Senate Journal, p. 8, Dec. 8, 1817.
                  
                     14
                            Laws of Indiana, 1817, p. 304.
               
                     committee of the whole; but the further
                    consideration of the bill was postponed until the next session of the
                        legislature.15
            
            FIRST APPROPRIATION
                    OF MONEY
                    FOR SCHOOLS
            
            During the third session of the legislature the preceding law16 was amended to provide that a part of the money on hand, received from
                    the rental of school lands, might be expended by the township trustees for
                    erecting houses on the school sections.17
            
            If there should be any surplus, it might be apportioned by the trustees in May
                    and November for the use of township schools, based on the number of scholars in
                    the organized schools. It would seem from this passage that schools had been
                    previously organized by some method. This is the first instance of the voting of
                    public funds for the use of schools established by the people.
            In this amendment there was a provision that no allowance should be made for any
                    scholar who was learning any other than the English language, or who was not a
                    resident of the township.18
            
            Another boost was given to the school fund by the same amendment in the provision
                    that forfeitures of bonds of trustees be applied to the benefit of the common
                    schools of the township.19
            
            Another section of the act introduces that lowly servant, the public
                        schoolmaster.20 It was made the duty of the teacher to
                    keep an accurate record of the attendance of scholars during the term, to be
                    used as a basis for the apportionment of revenue for the suceeding term.
            In this amendment is found the first attempt, though a feeble one, to provide for
                    the education of youth by the state. Without funds for building houses, for
                    paying teachers, for buying equipment, the outlook must have been discouraging
                    to those who had the will but knew not the way.
            
               
                  15
                        Senate Journal, p. 107, Jan. 9, 1818.
               
                  16
                  Laws of Indiana, 1817, p. 304.
               
                  17
                        Laws of Indiana, 1818, p. 51.
               
                  18
                  Ibid, p. 68.
               
                  19
                  Ibid, Sec. 6.
               
                  20
                  Ibid, Sec. 3.
            
            
            Nothing more could be done except to await developments. At the next session a
                    joint resolution was passed for the appointment of a committee to draft a bill
                    and to report the same to the succeeding session, 
                        providing for a general system of education, ascending in a regular
                            gradation from township schools to a state university wherein tuition
                            shall be gratis and equally open to all, and guarding against any
                            distinction between rich and poor.21
                  
                    
                
            The report of this committee was called for at the beginning of the next
                        session.22 It was the opinion of the committee that if
                    the donations of congress for the benefit of schools be properly cared for, a
                    permanent fund would be created which would produce sufficient revenue to
                    provide for township schools so well that the state might occupy a respectably
                    high standing from a literary point of view. The number of acres of school lands
                    was given as 608,207. If that land could have been withheld from sale until the
                    present century, what a heritage the state would have had! At an average price
                    of twenty dollars an acre the amount of the fund would have been more than
                    $15,000,000. Again, if the land had not been sold at all, those
                    sections would have been a fine location for the consolidated township schools
                    of the present time. The income from the section would have gone far towards
                    supporting such school.
            By the plan of the committee, four schools would have been established in each
                    township, so located that no child would need go father than one and a half
                    miles to school. A board of inspection was to be appointed in each county, to
                    examine teachers. Trustees could not pay teachers unless they held certificates.
                    The inspectors were also to be required to visit and inspect the schools of the
                    county in order to note the success and improvements in them.
            Teachers must be of good moral character, and well qualified to teach reading,
                    writing, and arithmetic, and possibly English grammar, geography, and surveying.
            The qualified voters of each district were given power to vote a tax levy to
                    build a schoolhouse; and to levy and collect 
                  
                     21
                     Laws of Zadiuaa, 1820, p. 139.
                  
                     22
                     House Journal, pp.
                            128–149, Dec. 6, 1821.
               
                     an additional tax for tuition purposes, to
                    supplement the common school fund apportioned to the district, in order to
                    maintain a minimum term of three months.
            The kind of building and the length of the term were left to the decision of the
                    people of the district. Administration was placed in the hands of three trustees
                    elected by the qualified voters of the district, who must be freeholders and
                    householders. These trustees were to employ the teachers, provide fuel and other
                    equipment, and to have general supervision of the district school.
            Such, in brief, were the recommendations of the special committee. They seemed to
                    have made a diligent search of the various systems of the country. If their
                    recommendations had been placed on the statute books of the state, a creditable
                    system of elementary schools would have been established. But the General
                    Assembly took no affirmative action on this report, and there was no
                    constructive legislation for elementary schools for the next three years. It was
                    the period of "the three r's" in school affairs and
                    of the spirit of democracy in all affairs, especially in the west.
            The committee plan was a step towards decentralization. It combined county,
                    township, and district units, with the emphasis on the district. This was due,
                    perhaps, to the increasing influence of immigrants from the middle seaboard
                    region. The adoption of the district as the school unit was the next important
                    piece of legislation for schools, and this system prevailed during the next
                    quarter of a century. The law establishing that unit will next be considered.
            TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES
            
            The first real legislation for organizing the common schools of the state was
                    passed by the Seventh General Assembly.25
            
            Upon notice, given by three freeholders or householders of a congressional
                    township, a meeting might be held for the purpose of electing three township
                    trustees; providing that twenty or more freeholders or householders were
                    present. When these trustees-elect had qualified, by filing their certificates
                    of election with the county clerk, giving bond, and taking  the oath of office, they then constituted a body
                    politic and corporate for the transaction of such business as might come before
                    them. Elections thereafter for trustees were to be held triennially on the first
                    Monday of April. Vacancies were to be filled by special elections.
            These trustees were to have charge of the school lands, which they might lease;
                    but they had no authority to sell them. They could choose a clerk and a
                    treasurer, and could make necessary rules for the regulation of the schools of
                    the township. They must, within thirty days after their election, divide their
                    townships into as many school districts as might seem necessary.
            DISTRICT ORGANIZATION
            
            The township trustees must appoint three sub-trustees for each district of their
                    township. These ub-trustees were to act under the direction of the township
                    trustees; and they might be dismissed by the latter for misconduct, upon
                    complaint of any inhabitant of the district. To prevent false charges from being
                    filed, the person making a complaint was liable to a fine of five dollars if he
                    could not prove his charges.
            The sub-trustees were required to take an enumeration of the children of the
                    district between the ages of five and twenty-one years of age, and to report
                    this to the township clerk, together with other data of the district.
            Within ten days after their appointment, the sub-trustees were required to call a
                    meeting of the freeholders or the householders of their district, and to take
                    their opinion in writing whether they wished to support a public school of not
                    less than three months during each year. The vote upon the question was to be
                    certified to the township clerk, and placed on record by him.
            THE SCHOOL HOUSE
            
            If a majority voted in favor of having a school, a site for a schoolhouse should
                    be selected as nearly as possible to the 
                  
                     23
                            Laws of Indiana, 1824, p. 379.
               
                     center of the district. In the selection of
                    a site, attention must be given to the healthfulness, and to the proximity of
                    water and fuel. The sub-trustees were then to set a time for the patrons to meet
                    and to begin the construction of the house, which might be of brick, stone, hewn
                    timber, or frame, as the people might decide.
            Every able-bodied male freeholder or householder more than twenty-one years of
                    age was liable to do one day's work a week on the house until it was
                    completed, or he must pay a forfeit of thirty-seven and a half cents a day for
                    every day he failed to work as required. If any person refused to work, the
                    sub-trustees must bring suit against him, and any judgment obtained might be
                    sold, or exchanged for materials needed in the construction of the house.
            The schoolhouse must be at lease eight feet between floors and a foot above
                    ground level. When completed, the house must be inspected by the township
                    trustees. If it was not up to requirements, the sub-trustees must alter it and
                    make it satisfactory. It must be comfortable for pupils and teacher; it must
                    have suitable seats, tables, light, and other necessary equipment. If all these
                    conditions were complied with, the schools were better equipped than are many
                    district schools of the state at the present time. The schoolhouse must be open
                    for the education of all children within the district without distinction. This
                    is another example of the democratic equality of the era.
            After the house was completed, it was necessary for the sub-trustees to hold
                    another meeting or election by the inhabitants, at the schoolhouse, to get their
                    consent to levy a tax for the support of the school, to supplement the school
                    fund from the school lands, to decide what amount to assess and what the length
                    of the term should be, if it was to be longer than three months. The result of
                    this election must also be certified to the township clerk to be recorded. All
                    acts of the meetings and of the officials were governed by rigid rules.
            THE TEACHER
            
            Another duty of the sub-trustees was the employment of a teacher, "on
                    the best terms possible." The teacher was not  paid until the completion of the term for which he
                    was employed. Then payment was made in such articles and in such manner as had
                    been agreed upon. The contract must be written and must be recorded by the
                    township clerk.
            An applicant for the position of "keeping school" must present
                    to the sub-trustees a certificate from the township trustees, stating that the
                    latter had examined him as to his qualifications, and especially as to his
                    ability to teach "reading, writing, and arithmetic". As part of his
                    duties, the teacher must keep a record of the daily attendance for the term, and
                    report this to the sub-trustees, who, in turn, were required to transmit a copy
                    to the township clerk. This official must then find the general average of
                    attendance for the whole township, and use this as the basis for apportioning
                    the school funds on hand from the rental of the school lands of that township.
            If the funds apportioned were not sufficient to fulfill the contract made by the
                    sub-trustees with the teacher, and to pay other necessary expenses, the township
                    trustees must then order the collection of the tax voted by the freeholders of
                    the district for that purpose, in proportion to the amount of improved land
                    owned by each. The sub-trustees must then send a notice to each person liable
                    for the tax, stating the amount due from him; how much he was to pay in cash;
                    how much in produce, with the price allowed for the same; and the time and place
                    of delivery. If any person should fail to make payment, suit must be brought
                    before a justice of the peace, and the amount due collected for the payment of
                    the teacher, the clerk, or for any other person to whom owing.
            If the efficiency of the schools had been in proportion to the amount of red tape
                    in their school laws, those pioneers would certainly have had a splendid school
                    system. And that red tape has been increasing ever since.
            AMENDMENTS
                    TO
                    THE LAW
                    OF 1824
            The eighth session of the General Assembly amended several sections of the act of
                        1824.24 The assessment list was 
                  
                     24
                     Laws of Indiana, 1824, p.
                        93.
               
                     made to include all taxable property, both
                    real estate and personal property, including the value of the same. If the tax
                    was levied to supplement the funds from the school section, the levy was not to
                    exceed one-fourth per centum ad valorem, or twenty-five cents on the one hundred
                    dollars of taxables. At the end of twenty days after giving notice, the
                    sub-trustees were to leave with a justice the names of all taxpayers listed for
                    payment of the tax, with the names of those who had paid checked off. The
                    justice must then collect from the delinquents.
            If the inhabitants of any township should neglect to incorporate the township,
                    the board of trustees of the county, possibly meaning the county commissioners,
                    must appoint three trustees for any such township, and these appointees were
                    empowered to take charge of the school section and rent or lease the lands.
                    These might be leased for any term not to exceed ten years.
            In this first general school law, the unit of school administration was still the
                    school township, but the duties had beep. divided. Instead of having full charge
                    of school affairs, the township trustees were given three assistants or
                    deputies, the sub-trustees, for each school district. The latter had the
                    management of school affairs in their several districts, and had full charge in
                    the case of the powers delegated to them; but the "sub-trustees shall
                    act under the direction of the township trustees in all cases not expressly
                    herein provided for".25
            
            Decentralization had begun in earnest. If the townships averaged six schools,
                    there were at least twenty-two officials engaged in carrying on the affairs of
                    the schools besides the teachers. But the worst was yet to come.
            Imagine the teacher of that time, at the close of the term of school, after all
                    formalities were complied with, bidding adieu to his patrons, with whom he had
                    "boarded around" for three months, and leaving the scene of
                    his winter's triumphs (or failures), loaded down with his wages, to the
                    amount of not to exceed sixty dollars, in the form of the produce of the land,
                    with possibly a small amount of cash, wending his way to other fields of
                    conquest. Even the small amount of cash received must be waited for during the
                    time it was being  collected. This required
                    several days. Such was the beginning of our excellent system of public schools
                    of the present time.
            GOVERNOR RAY FAVORS PUBLIC SCHOOLS
            
            The first general law for public schools could not have been very successful. At
                    the opening of the ninth session of the legislature, Gov. James B. Ray, in his
                    message, strongly urged the lawmakers to pass an effective law relative to the
                    organization of the common schools. He called attention to the flourishing
                    condition of the State Seminary at Blooming-ton, which he had visited recently;
                    but he had no words to say in praise of the condition of the public schools. The
                    part of his message advising relief for these schools is a classic of its kind;
                    and, in part, is as follows:
            There is no subject more worthy the attention of a free people than that of
                    providing means for the education of all classes of society, rich and poor
                    together, in the same manner and at the same school. Nor is there a more
                    effective method of suppressing vice, and giving countenance too, and
                    encouraging the principles of humanity, industry and morality; nor is there any
                    better method of bringing native genius to light and usefulness. It is one of
                    the first duties of a government, as well as of an individual, to provide the
                    means necessary for their own existence. Ours especially is a government of the
                    people, and its very existence depends upon their virtue and intelligence. A
                    well-educated people will always be virtuous.26
            
            Those old democrats in that most democratic period of our history were staunch
                    patriots, wishing to transmit the reins of government to worthy hands who would
                    continue to carry forward their principles, and keep their own country
                    "safe for democracy". This must be done through the education of those
                    who would soon be called upon to manage the affairs of the state.
            Governor Ray's idea of the purpose of education, as expressed in this
                    message, was essentially the same as that of educators of today; that is, that
                    all education by the state has the education for citizenship for its primary
                    purpose; that 
                  
                     25
                            Laws of Indiana, 1824, p. 383.
                  
                     26
                            Senate Journal, P. 28, Dec. 8, 1825.
               
                     all subjects in the schools may be equally
                    useful in producing an educated citizenship; and that this is the aim of all
                    education.
            Nevertheless, his advice went unheeded, and the only legislation for several
                    years was the first act authorizing the sale of the sixteenth sections.27 This law provided that the voters of congressional
                    townships might decide in special elections whether they desired to sell such
                    lands and have the money received there for invested as a permanent fund, the
                    interest, only, to be used for common school purposes.
            This act was amended a year later to provide that an election might be held upon
                    the request of five freeholders of the township.28 This last
                    provision was again changed in the following session, in a few particulars.29
            
            THE PEOPLE PETITION
                    FOR SCHOOLS
            
            For several years school legislation was at a standstill, and the schools just
                    drifted along. The law placed the welfare of the schools in the hands of the
                    majority; and the majority were not always in favor of using their power in the
                    interest of schools. The minority could not have schools unless the majority
                    consented.
            Evidently there were some people who did desire something better, for a petition
                    was presented to the senate by the people, asking for assistance for schools.
                    This petition suggested that the county seminary and the college funds be
                    diverted from their intended uses, and that they be used to support the common
                    schools. The committee on education reported to the senate that they were in
                    full accord with the wishes of the petitioners for the better education of the
                    children of the state; but that an effective school system could not be
                    established for want of funds.
            Even though the seminary funds accumulating in the several counties were added to
                    the proceeds of the sixteenth sections, the amount was so small that the
                    combined funds would 
                  
                     27
                     Laws of Indiana, 1827, p, 112.
                  
                     28
                     Laws of Indiana, 1828, p. 120.
                  
                     29
                     Laws of Indiana, 1829, p.
                        160.
               
                     still be insufficient for best results. The
                    addition of the college funds, though ample for the purpose for which they were
                    set apart, to the other two would make but little showing when distributed over
                    so much territory. But neither of these funds could be diverted to the use of
                    the common schools unless the constitution were first amended.30
            
            However that session of the legislature passed an act codifying the existing
                    school laws, and making some additions thereto.31 The
                    principal changes related to the handling and the sale of the school lands.
            Provision was made for the election by the county of a school commissioner who
                    was to receive and invest the money accruing from the sale of the school
                    sections. He was elected for a term of three years, and he was to receive a
                    salary of one dollar a day for actual time served.
            Provision was made for the sale of the school lands and for the cancellation of
                    the leases on any of them. Ten years' time was given for payment of the
                    lands sold; one-fourth of the purchase price was to be paid in cash; the
                    interest on the balance was payable yearly in advance. Failure to meet interest
                    payments was cause for forfeiture of the land. If forfeited the land was to be
                    resold.
            The duties of the sub-trustees were more definitely defined. They were to make an
                    assessment list of all male inhabitants, the land owned by them, the amount of
                    improved land, and an enumeration of the children of the district. These lists
                    must be reported to the township clerk. A penalty was provided for any one who
                    refused to give the desired information. The sub-trustees were not required to
                    call an election for levying a tax, unless they were requested to do so by a
                    petition signed by at least twenty householders.
            The township trustees were authorized to lease all unsold lands for any period
                    not to exceed eight years, rental for which was to be paid either in cash or
                    kind. They must supervise these lands, prevent waste or damage, bring suit for
                    non-payment of rent, collect interest due the township from the superintendent
                    of the loan office or from the school 
                  
                     30
                     Senate Journal, p. 96, Dec.
                            14, 1830.
                  
                     31
                     Laws of Indiana, 1830, p.
                        463.
               
                     commissioner,32 and
                    apportion the money among the township schools. They were required to make
                    annual reports to the county commissioners of all school funds handled. These
                    county boards controlled the trustees, and could remove them for malfeasance in
                    office upon proof of charges filed against them. If the electors of a township
                    failed to choose township trustees as this act provided, the commissioners must
                    appoint them.
            In his last message to the legislature Governor Ray said his final words in
                    praise of education in all the grades. He himself had been deprived of the
                    advantages of an education in his youth, and his experience had taught him its
                    value. He made a plea for the education of the whole child,—body,
                    head, and heart,—physical, mental and moral. The state owed an
                    education to every rational human, in every condition of the rising youth. His
                    closing words were: "Virtue is the immortal part of a republic;
                    knowledge is its safety, its power, its glory".33
            
            GOVERNOR NOBLE FAVORS BETTER SCHOOLS
            
            Governor Ray was succeeded by Gov. Noah Noble, who in his inaugural address also
                    urged the legislators to provide better educational advantages for the grades,
                    giving the same reasons as those of his predecessors, that the government of the
                    future state might be in the hands of an educated citizenship.
            
                    That our free institutions may be perpetuated, it is not enough that we
                        provide a few who are qualified to sit in the councils, or guide the helm of
                            state.34
               
                
            The fountain of power is the great mass of the people, and these must all be
                    educated that the draught may be pure. When the farmers and the mechanics learn
                    that their sons may occupy posts of honor and distinction, they will lend their
                    aid, to the end that their children may receive the benefits of an education.
            
               
                  32
                  Laws of Indiana, 1830, p. 461.
               
                  33
                        Senate Journal, p. 13, Dec. 6, 1831.
               
                  34
                  senate Journal, pp. 23, 24, Dec.
                        7, 1831.
            
            
            THE DISTRICT BECOMES
                    THE SCHOOL UNIT
            
            The twenties and thirties was a period of floundering about and trying to find
                    something to cling to in school affairs in Indiana. The period of extreme
                    democracy in political affairs was echoed in relation to the management of
                    schools. During the twenties there was a gradual change from the township unit
                    to the partial district unit, in which sub-trustees of the district were
                    invested with certain independent duties, but were subject to the township
                    trustees in other respects.
            During the thirties, however, the relationship was practically reversed; the
                    district was given almost complete control of the schools, and the township
                    trustees became the agent of the district trustees, retaining but a small degree
                    of supervision of the district, both being weakly connected with the next higher
                    unit, the county. During this decade the state had no connection with the common
                    schools, except through the legislature, which kept experimenting with new laws
                    almost yearly. Numerous laws were passed; but the legislators never succeeded in
                    finding a method by which to provide the necessary funds to establish an
                    effective school system.
            The governors continued to urge the legislature to supply that necessity; but the
                    legislators could not find the way to do so. The process was to be one of slow
                    growth.
            In his annual message to the Sixteenth General Assembly, Governor Noble made
                    another strong appeal for the support of schools. He blamed both the people and
                    the officials for laxity in affairs pertaining to the schools in this passage:
                        
                        It too often happens that communities and those that occupy responsible
                            positions in the administration of public affairs, while in the pursuit
                            of present goods, seem insensible of the relations in which they stand
                            to posterity. They too often forget that their acts are to give
                            complexion to the character of succeeding generations, and perhaps fix
                            their political destiny; and this is because the consequences of a
                            neglect of duty, in this particular, are not present and obvious, but
                            develop themselves in time to come.85
                  
                    
                
            Continuing, he said that in Indiana there were more than one hundred thousand
                    children of suitable age who were depending upon the lawmakers for preparation
                    for future usefulness in the professions, arts, and sciences, and to fit them
                         for the duties of future citizens and
                    officials. If they did not receive that preparation, those duties must fall to
                    those coming from other parts of the country, which have made such preparation
                    for their future success.
            The governor admitted that the state was lacking in resources to accomplish what
                    should be done. But he reasoned that a half loaf was better than no bread when
                    he remarked further,
            
                    Because we can not accomplish the whole, we should not despair and make no
                        struggle. If we can not go to the full extent of our wishes, let us go as
                        far as the means and resources within our reach will enable us, and we shall
                        have discharged our duty. Let us acknowledge the whole debt and discharge it
                        in part.86
               
                
            He suggested further that the law be amended so as to permit the minority to have
                    opportunities for school advantages even when the majority refused to levy a tax
                    for school purposes. This revealed the fact that under the law at that time,
                    attempts to organize schools and to provide funds were being voted down in local
                    option elections. Too much democracy by majority was not good for the best
                    interests of the minority in public school questions. He further suggested that
                    the minority be permitted to register their names with the trustees, and that
                    those who approved of the provisions of the law should be permitted to unite for
                    the support of schools for themselves. He would have the trustees report
                    annually to the county clerk, for their respective townships, the number of
                    schools, the number of scholars, the length of the term, and the cost of
                    tuition. The county clerk should then report the same for the whole county to
                    some state official, and these statistics should be laid before the legislature
                    as a basis for legislation.
            He would then have any surplus in the state treasury apportioned among the
                    schools that were being supported by taxation or by contributions for six months
                    in any year. This suggestion met with little or no favor.
            The governor also proposed another method for raising funds. The trustees were to
                    circulate petitions for the benefit 
                  
                     35
                            Senate Journal, p. 17, Dec. 4, 1832.
                  
                     36
                     Senate Journal, p. 17, Dec. 4,
                            1832.
               
                     of the schools, and report in October to
                    the colonel of the regiment the names of all who had subscribed one dollar or
                    more, and have these excused from military duty. This plan would have diverted
                    the exemption money from the seminary fund to the common school fund, and would
                    have been unconstitutional.
            In order to legalize such action, an amendment was proposed to the constitution,
                    that such exemption money should be applied to the use of the common schools of
                    the township in which it might be collected; also, that all fines for breaches
                    of the penal laws should be used for the same purpose. However, the proposed
                    amendment was rejected by the House.87
            
            To encourage the building of schoolhouses in 
                        Vermillion county
                    , an act was passed providing for an election in any township to
                    decide whether the interest of the school fund might be used for erecting
                        schoolhouses.38 Not more than one hundred dollars might
                    be used for each house, and the number of houses was limited to six to the
                    township. If this amount was not sufficient to complete the house, the balance
                    must be furnished in accordance with existing law.
            Although this was special legislation, it furnishes information about the cost of
                    a schoolhouse at that time. It further shows how little interest was shown in
                    schools by the majority, which would prevent the building of a house that could
                    be built for about a hundred dollars, and that donated in labor.
            DISTRICT BECOMES
                    THE SUPERIOR UNIT
            
            Although the legislators were not very generous in providing funds for schools,
                    they were more than liberal when it came to supplying school laws. A new
                    revision of the laws was made in 1833, the most complete act so far passed
                    relating to schools. The act comprised two hundred five sections.39 It completely reversed the administration of the common schools,
                    and almost reached the limit of the decentralizing process. So democratic was
                    it, that there were but few people left that were not officials of some kind.
            
               
                  37
                        House Journal, p. 468, Jan. 22, 1833.
               
                  38
                  Laws of Zndhna, 1832, p. 24.
               
                  39
                        Laws of Indiana, 1832, pp. 77–104.
            
            
            This act provided for the election of township trustees as under the preceding
                        law,40 but provided that both clerk and treasurer must
                    be chosen from the body of trustees. Their duties were not greatly changed. The
                    principal change was that they no longer appointed the sub-trustees for the
                    district. The sections relating to the districts constituted the most important
                    change.
            DISTRICT TRUSTEES
            
            The district became the unit of school administration instead of the township.
                    The township trustees now became little more than the agents of the districts.
                    The qualified voters of the district were to meet annually on the first Saturday
                    of October to elect three trustees; these were no longer sub-trustees; they had
                    been promoted.41
            
            A district trustee must be a qualified voter of his district, and he might serve
                    for one year. Vacancies occurring during the year were to be filled by
                    appointment of the township clerk. Trustees were subject to removal by the
                    inhabitants of the district at any meeting, by majority vote, and their
                    successors chosen.
            The district trustees were to organize by appointing one of their number as clerk
                    and another as treasurer. The clerk was to keep the records, call special
                    meetings of the people whenever he thought necessary, or whenever he was
                    requested to do so by five or more electors. At these meetings the school
                    patrons might vote upon any questions, such as building a schoolhouse, selecting
                    a site, choosing materials, support for the schools of the district for a term
                    of not less than three months in a year, employment of a
                    teacher, terms of employment, or any other business pertaining to the
                    welfare of the district school.
            Here was local self-government, town meeting, pure democracy, reduced to lowest
                    terms. The entire management of the school was in the hands of the district
                    electors. The people had absolute power. If they did not have a school, it 
                  
                     40
                            Laws of Indtana, 1830, p. 463.
                  
                     41
                     Laws of Indiana, 1832, pp.
                            77–104.
               
                     was because the majority did not want one;
                    and it seem that was the wish of the majority in many cases. If the majority
                    decided in favor of a school, the district trustees were instructed to make
                    contracts for and superintend the work of building a house, enumerate the
                    children, make an assessment list of the property of the district, employ the
                    teacher, and other like duties.42
            
            The emoluments of the office of district trustee consisted mainly in the honor
                    conferred. A district trustee was exempt from military service while in office.
                    The clerk and treasurer were to be reimbursed for expenditures for office
                    records and stationery. The people, at a meeting, might exempt the trustees from
                    labor tax, materials, or money for building purposes. The office was the
                    ancestor of the school directors of a later period.
            TEACHERS
            
            The district was given complete authority over teachers. The district meeting
                    must authorize the employment of a teacher by the trustees before the latter
                    could act. Applicants for the position must pass an examination before the
                    district trustees as to their ability to teach reading, writing, and arithmetic.
                    Thus the control over the teachers passed entirely from the township to the
                    district trustees or to the people.
            Another provision of this law permitted transfer from one district to another on
                    account of impassable streams. The patron retained his right to his share of the
                    district fund. The teacher of the school to which the transfer was made must
                    report to the home district the attendance record of the transferred pupils.
            The school funds were to be apportioned and distributed to the school patrons;
                    their pro rata share was based on the attendance of the children; the patrons
                    were then to pay the teacher their share of the tuition expenses, unless his
                    contract provided that he was to be paid by the trustees.43
            
            Thus was the power over school affairs placed entirely in 
                  
                     42
                     Laws of Indiana, 1832, Ch.
                            136–171.
               
                     the hands of the inhabitants of the
                    district. This power was almost absolute in the hands of the majority of the
                    freeholders or householders. The recommendation of the governor that a minority
                    might have the opportunity of educating their children was ignored. The only
                    step remaining to bring about more complete decentralization was to place power
                    in the hands of the individual instead of in the district group. That hal step
                    was reached by a later session of the legislature.
            GOVERNOR NOBLE FLAYS
                    THE TEACHERS
            
            The sentiment of the people respecting conditions over the state is generally
                    reflected in the annual recommendations of the governor to the legislature when
                    it convenes. In his message at the opening of the seventeenth session of the
                    General Assembly, Governor Noble made the teachers the subject for some caustic
                    remarks. He said:
            
                    The want of competent persons to instruct in our township schools is a cause
                        of complaint in many sections of the State, and it is to be regretted that
                        in employing transient persons from other states, combining but little of
                        qualifications or moral character, the profession is not in that repute that
                        it should be. Teachers permanently interested in the institutions of the
                        country, possessing knowledge of the manners and customs of our extended
                        population, and mingling with it, would be more calculated to render
                        essential service and be better qualified than those who come in search of
                        employment. The want of good instructors is a difficulty existing elsewhere;
                        and in several states of the 
                            Union
                        , to obviate it, seminaries are established solely to instruct
                        and prepare teachers; and those institutions, it is said, derive much
                        benefit from connecting with them the manual labor system.44
               
                
            This severe indictment of the teachers by the governor needs little comment.
                    Transient teachers usually have but little interest in the affairs of the
                    community in which they teach. The meager salary paid them at that time was
                    their only object in most cases. Native teachers, if equally well qualified
                    could, no doubt, have given better service to the community, since they
                    understood the customs of the community better.
            
               
                  43
                  Laws of Indiana, 1832, Ch. 172 ff.
               
                  44
                  Senate Journal, pp. 17, 18, Dec.
                        3, 1833.
            
            
            His recommendation that preparatory schools should be established to fit teachers
                    for service in the common schools was timely, and showed wisdom, and knowledge
                    of the situation. However, until the remuneration offered teachers was such as
                    to attract them to prepare for such service, little could be expected. The
                    munificent salary of sixty dollars a year was not likely to induce many to enter
                    the profession of teaching except as an opportunity to earn something to aid
                    them in preparing for some other profession.
            In order to procure funds, the governor suggested a new plan. He would have the
                    interest from saline funds used to establish one or more seminaries for the
                    preparation of young men as teachers in the township schools.
                    Women lacked one necessary qualification for that time, muscular power. This was
                    deemed absolutely necessary for the government of a school. The young men were
                    to be apportioned by counties, on the basis of population. The governor
                    suggested that such a seminary should be established in connection with the
                    State College, after consultation with the trustees and the faculty.
            Had his suggestion been followed, the school of education in the university would
                    have been established very early. He showed foresight in this suggestion; but
                    for some reason no action resulted. The college authorities were probably
                    looking forward to a strong school of liberal arts, with their minds centered on
                    the future university, and a teacher's school was not regarded, at that
                    time, as within the sphere of the university.
            NORMAL SCHOOLS
            
            This idea of teacher preparation was attracting attention in other quarters of
                    the state. These activities may have influenced the governor to mention the fact
                    in his message. At that time there was in Indiana an organization calling itself
                    the Association of Common Schools. John Dumont was invited by this association
                    to make an address at their second meeting.46
            
            His address was a fine oratorical effort upon knowledge and science in general.
                    He took occasion to mention the object 
                  
                     45
                            Indiana Journal, p. 1, Jan. 1, 1834.
               
                     of the association, which, he said, was to
                    influence young men to prepare to become teachers in the common schools of
                    Indiana. He made a plea for free schools within the reach of the poorest child.
                    He emphasized the opportunity that the common schools had to become a power in
                    the affairs of the state. Indiana needed more than four thousand teachers at
                    that time to supply the schools. This society offered opportunities for students
                    to work part time and make preparation to do better teaching than was done by
                    itinerant teachers. The chief thing about this society was, that it was making
                    known the needs of Indiana schools. If it did nothing more than to serve as
                    propaganda, it was accomplishing a good purpose.
            Although the State College did not heed the advice of the governor and establish
                    a teachers' training course, private schools became interested. Fifteen
                    days after Dumont's address, the legislature passed an act
                    incorporating 
                        Wabash
                     Manual Labor College and Teachers Seminary at Crawfords-ville.46 Section four provided that the board of trustees should
                    make it one of the first objects and the most prominent one to promote
                    literature and the means for conducting an English scientific department, with
                    special emphasis on the qualifications of teachers of common schools. This was
                    the first school to be organized in the state for that purpose.
            Two weeks later, the legislature incorporated The Indiana Teachers Seminary in 
                        Jefferson county
                     for the same purpose; that is, for the purpose of instructing
                    teachers for the common schools on the manual labor system.47 What success these two schools had is secondary to the fact that they
                    were creating a sentiment for better teachers and better schools, destined to
                    bear fruit in the future.
            The same session of the legislature amended the general school laws by the
                    recognition of schools established by the Society of Friends in any township as
                    district schools and entitled to the privileges of such schools. Thus was the
                    principle of home rule extended from state free schools to a religious
                    organization, enjoying the same benefits as the free schools.48
            
            
               
                  46
                  Laws of Indiana, 1833, p. 57.
               
                  47
                  Ibid, p. 334, Feb. 1, 1834.
               
                  48
                  Laws of Indiana, 1833, p.
                    329.
            
            
            Another act amended the general law chiefly in regard to the certification of
                        teachers.49 It provided that the circuit court of each
                    county should appoint three examiners of common school teachers, to hold office
                    for one year. It was the duty of the examiners to examine applicants for
                    teachers' licenses and to certify the branches of learning any
                    applicant was qualified to teach. This was not intended to take away the power
                    from the district trustees, but to be auxiliary thereto, and assist them in
                    determining the qualifications of teachers. This act might have been useful in
                    selecting better teachers, providing that the examiners were competent, and that
                    trustees were limited to those certified in making their selections. The act did
                    one thing, it introduced the county as a third unit in school administration.
                    This influence of the county has grown steadily since that time.
            Governor Noble kept right after the legislature, even if it did not follow his
                    advice. In his next message he again urged the lawmakers to adapt school
                    legislation to the situation of the people rather than to attempt to adopt some
                    ideal system in use in other states, suited to their circumstances, but wholly
                    inadequate to our situation because of the difference in environment.60
            
            That session passed another amendment to the general law, the act of February 10,
                    1831, which made it lawful for pupils over twenty-one, attending a district
                    school, to be enumerated for the distribution of school funds, as though they
                    were under twenty-one. This act placed no limit on the maximum age. If the
                    "oldest inhabitant" desired to enroll in the district school,
                    he could claim his share of the school funds.61
            
            This amendment also extended the privilege of transfer on account of convenience.
                    This was a distinct advance. The same privilege was granted to a resident of a
                    district in which there was no organized school. This provision was an aid to
                    minorities in districts in which the majority had voted not to establish a
                    school. These transferred pupils must obtain the consent of the trustees of the
                    district to which the transfer was made.
            
               
                  49
                  Ibid, p. 327.
               
                  50
                  Senate Journal, p. 18, Dec. 2,
                        1834.
               
                  51
                        Laws of Indiana, 1834, p. 36.
            
            
            THE FAMILY MADE
                    THE SCHOOL UNIT
            
            An act of the nineteenth session of the legislature again reduced the unit of
                    school administration, and made the family or the household the basic unit in
                    school affairs. This act provided that, if the voters of any district failed to
                    elect trustees; or if these failed to call a meeting for the purpose of
                    providing a house, a site, materials, or location; or if the meeting, when
                    called, failed to provide for the support of a school or for the employment of a
                    teacher:
            
                    It shall be lawful for any householder to employ a teacher, either male or
                        female, to teach his children afid the children of others in the district
                        who may wish to send, upon such contract as he or they can agree upon.62
               
                
            The teacher employed must have a certificate as provided for under the act of
                    February 1, 1834. The township treasurer must pay b such householder his due
                    proportion of the funds of the township. But if the inhabitants of the district
                    should open a school, then the private school would receive no more public funds
                    after the end of the current quarter.
            Two things are noteworthy in this act: first, the fact that the unit was reduced
                    to the smallest organization of society, the family or individual. Next, the
                    fact that women, for thg first time, were recognized as eligible for the
                    position of teacher. Democracy reigned supreme in school affairs.
            The same session passed a joint resolution providing for the appointment of some
                    suitable person to revise and codify the school laws during the vacation of the
                    legislature, and present them in a systematic form, in separate chapters,
                    defining the duties of each official having charge of school funds, and
                    suggesting such amendments as he thought hecessary to render the system less
                    complex, and to approach as nearly as possible to perfection.53 Those wise solons thought much more of formality than of the substance.
                    A later governor took them to task for this very thing—attention to
                    form rather than to the making of a workable system of schools.
            The sentiment for preparation of teachers had taken root and was spreading. The
                    next session incorporated the Peru 
                  
                     52
                            Laws of Indiana, 1836, p. 378.
               
                     Collegiate Institute with these objects
                    stated: To promote literature and English; special reference to be given to
                    qualifications of teachers for common schools; to provide for a department of
                    education, for preparation of female teachers, to be known as The Peru Female
                    Seminary; to make provision for a department for both primary and preparatory
                    students of both sexes. Thus changes come. This was one of the first
                    co-educational schools founded in Indiana.64
            
            CODIFIED LAWS
                    OF 1837
            The report of the committee of one, provided for in the joint resolution of
                    February 6, 1836, for the purpose of revising the school laws, was duly
                    presented at the twenty-first session. Had it been as easy to provide funds for
                    the maintenance of schools as it was to codify the laws, Indiana would have
                    stood in the front ranks educationally in 1837. The new law, based on that
                    report, was well constructed as to form. That lone committeeman did his part of
                    the work well. There were few changes in the substance of the law.
            Township and district trustees were given qualifications. In future, both must be
                    citizens of the 
                        United States
                    , and residents of the state for one year next preceding the day of
                    the election. The former must, in addition, be a resident householder or
                    freeholder of the township; the latter of the district.
            Another new feature was the provision for a library by the district, secured
                    either by voluntary subscription or by a tax voted by a majority of the
                    inhabitants, not to exceed twenty dollars in any one year.55
            
            GOVERNOR WALLACE LECTURES
                    THE LEGISLATURE
            
            Although the legislature revised the school laws again during its twenty-first
                    session, it made no material changes in them.66 A holiday
                    was then taken in school legislation for several sessions.
            
               
                  53
                  Laws of Indiana, 1835, p. 395.
               
                  54
                  Laws of Indiana, 1836, p. 17.
               
                  55
                  Laws of Indiana, 1836, pp. 15
                    ff.
            
            
            But the governors would not let the legislators rest on that subject. At the
                    beginning of the twenty-third session, Gov. David Wallace gave them a prod in
                    his message, reminding them once more of their constitutional duties regarding
                    free schools. The subject, he said, was of paramount interest and merited the
                    first and last consideration of an American legislator. The steps heretofore
                    taken were only preparatory to the establishment of the common school system. He
                    excused the unsuccessful attempts of the past because the "sparseness
                    of the population and the demand for all the time and labor of the settler to
                    prepare a comfortable home" had thus far prevented any successful
                    attempt toward the attainment of the ends sought.
            But the time had arrived when the circumstances of the people justified action of
                    a real and positive nature. The school population at the last census was
                    272,000, and it was rapidly increasing through the great immigration of the
                        thirties.67
            
            To assist in the cause of education, he recommended that county boards of
                    education be established to superintend the school work of the county, to guard
                    the school funds, to provide competent teachers, and to spread propaganda by
                    making public addresses for the purpose of arousing the people to assist in
                    improving the conditions of the schools.
            He also favored the creation of a department of education in the state
                    university, devoted exclusively to the preparation of young men as teachers. He
                    would have the interest from the saline fund used to support that department.
                    Tuition was to be free. Each county was to send one or more of its most
                    promising young men.68
            
            There was a very little response to this message during that session. A
                    resolution, instructing the committee on education to report a bill at the next
                    session for another complete revision of the school laws, was tabled in the
                        House.59 Another resolution, which provided that the
                    same committee should "inquire into the expediency" of
                    creating the office of 
                  
                     56
                            Revised Statutes, pp. 609 ff.
                  
                     57
                            Census of 1830.
                  
                     58
                            House Journal, p. 25, Dec. 3, 1839.
                  
                     59
                     Ibid., p. 79, Dec. 10,
                        1839.
               
                     county superintendent, met the same
                        fate.60 This official was to receive a salary of
                    $1,500 a year, and was to devote his entire time to the duties of the
                    office. Although this would have been a forward step in the educational field,
                    the panic period was not an opportune time to introduce any high-priced
                    innovations into a poverty-stricken school system.
            The only positive response to the message was the passing of an amendment to the
                    existing laws declaring that the certification of teachers by the county
                    examiners was to be only an aid to the district trustees in determining the
                    qualifications of teachers. Trustees themselves must give the final examination
                    to determine the character and fitness of teachers for the position.
            Another section extended the district priviIeges to all private schools; all
                    persons sending to these schools could draw their pro rata share of the funds
                    from the township of which they were residents, provided there was no public
                    school in their district.61
            
            A revision of the school laws could be expected at least every three years, so
                    another codification came during the twenty-fourth session.62 Like the preceding revision, it made few changes in the laws.
            One amendment provided that if any district desired to have a term of six months
                    in a year, it would require a two-thirds vote of the electors of the district in
                    favor of a tax levy. This was another negative piece of legislation.63
            
            Another amendment favored the teachers. It provided that, in future, they should
                    be paid by the district treasurer upon an order by the trustees. The teacher now
                    had but a single paymaster instead of many.64
            
            ACME
                    OF DECENTRALIZATION
            
            Another section of this amendment was the acme of decentralization. It read:
            
               
                  60
                        Indiana Journal, Dec. 13, 1839.
               
                  61
                  Laws of Indiana, 1839, p. 35.
               
                  62 Laws of Indlana, 1840, p. 51.
               
                  63
                        Ibid., p, 80.
               
                  64
                        Ibid., p. 80.
            
            
            
                    The district trustees may, if they think proper, require any teacher
                        presenting himself or herself for employment to procure a certificate from
                        the examiners stating the branches he or she is to teach.66
               
                
            By this act the trustees need no longer consult anyone as to the qualification of
                    teachers. They may, "if they think proper", require a certificate from
                    the examiners. They were the sole judges in the case. They could, but they need
                    not do so. At last, the district was wholly supreme.
            A special application of this rule was an act pertaining only to 
                        Shelby county
                    . It provided that a majority of voters at any regularly called
                    meeting of any school district might dispense with such of the qualifications of
                    common school teachers as therein mentioned, as they might deem proper.66
            
            This was one of the last acts passed under the old constitution; therefore this
                    superiority of the district continued until changed under the provisions of the
                    new constitution.
            GOVERNOR BIGGER URGES LEGISLATION
            
            To Indiana legislators, those governors were a kind of Morton's fork. In
                    trying to slip off the prong of one they alighted on that of another. Gov.
                    Samuel Bigger in his message to the legislature in 1841, used some very plain
                    facts to show how the schools had been neglected. There had been a great deal of
                    legislation on school matters, but very little progress in making the schools
                    efficient. The legislators had been spending too much energy in perfecting the
                    form and had neglected the substance. They were relying too much on systems, and
                    too little on the means necessary to get the desired results through these
                        systems.67
            
            But his words fell on stony ground, and no harvest resulted. There was no school
                    legislation during that session; so he renewed his attack in his next
                        message.68 He condemned the school laws as a mass of
                    statutory provisions, which not even lawyers could understand. The people could
                    understand 
                  
                     65
                     Laws of Indiana, 1840, Ch. 4,
                            p. 86.
                  
                     66
                            Laws of Indiana, 1860, p. 167.
                  
                     67 Senate Journal, pp. 26, 27,
                            Dec. 7, 1841.
                  
                     68
                            Xenate Journal, pp. 18–22, Dec. 6,
                        1842.
               
                     them much less or not at all. He advised
                    the legislators to simplify the laws by deleting the complex features.
            While millions, he said, were being lavished, even wasted, on internal
                    improvements, such as canals and railroads, and were being used to promote
                    commerce and agriculture, the common schools, the very foundations of our moral
                    and political institutions, were neglected, rotting, and moldering away.
            Even the school funds, though well managed in some counties, were in much
                    confusion in many, and entirely lost in others. Their condition should be
                    investigated and improved. The fund should contain, from land sales and surplus
                    revenue, more than two and a quarter millions of dollars.
            In his final message the next December, he stated that the condition of the funds
                    had been investigated, and that they had been better secured.69
            
            Some of the people were at last becoming aroused and concerned about the
                    condition of the common schools. The press and various associations were making
                    their influence felt.
            TEACHERS CONVENTION
            
            A call was sent out by the Western College of Teachers by its Indiana director,
                    Minard Sturgess of 
                        South Hanover
                    ,70 for a convention of teachers to be held in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , January 11, 1843.71 At this convention there
                    was a free discussion of the common school system and academies, their condition
                    and needs. There was a demand for reform in the management of the school funds,
                    the licensing of teachers, and other changes that would place teachers on a par
                    with other professions. The whole system was in need of an infusion of new life.
            Among the speakers at the convention were Pres. Charles White of 
                        Wabash
                    , who made the principal address, Dr. Andrew Wylie, and Prof. Minard
                    Sturgess.
            A tendency to break away from the absolute power of the district manifested
                    itself in a legislative act limited to 
                        Orange
                    
                    
                  
                     69
                     House Journal, p. 18, Dec. 5,
                            1848.
                  
                     70
                            Indiana Journal, Dec. 30, 1343.
                  
                     71
                            Indiana Journal, Jan. 11, 1848.
               
                     county, which provided that the county
                    commissioners should appoint one suitable person in each township to serve as
                    the examiner of teachers of common schools.72 Why 
                        Orange county
                     should have been given this exclusive privilege was not stated.
            OUR FIRST SCHOOL JOURNAL
            
            A new feature was being introduced into the Indiana educational field, the school
                    journal. An editorial in the Indiana Journal contained an
                    extract from the first issue of the Com mon School Advocate.
                    In commenting on this article, the Journal took occasion to
                    express its own opinion of the common schools in one terse sentence:
            
                    There has been little or no improvement in the district schools during the
                        last twenty years. All must admit that education has never received that
                        attention which it deserves.72
               
                
            The article quoted from the Advocate is a severe criticism of
                    the school system in general. The writer of the article gives a very vivid
                    description of conditions as he had seen them, and it was not very flattering
                    either to the schools or to the discipline in them.
            The writer stated that the schools had been at a standstill for two decades.
                    Methods of instruction and discipline had not changed. Methods of instruction
                    had not kept pace with the science of teaching, but were plodding along in the
                    old beaten track. Reading, especially, was greatly neglected by the larger
                    scholars, both male and female. Neither pupils nor teachers could read correctly
                    and understandingly, because they failed to get the thought of tlie selections
                    which they read. The work was hurried over in order to cover the greatest amount
                    of space rather than with the idea of thoroughness. The reading work was not
                    nearly so thorough as the spelling, in which words were never passed over unless
                    they were correctly spelled. But with reading, the words were merely pronounced
                    without regard either for getting or expressing the thought.
            
               
                  72
                        Indiana Journal, Aug. 26, 1846.
            
            
            Another evil condemned by the article was the method of discipline. Said the
                    writer:
            
                    Physical arguments and compulsory measures are the sine qua non of school
                        government in far the greater number of our schools,
                
            One instance was given to illustrate the tyrannical, despotic treatment of
                    children. In this school the teacher always kept a stick about four feet long
                    under his arm. As he walked about, he would frequently apply it, without any
                    warning, and with brutal force, to some scholar who sat at a suitable distance
                    to receive the blow to best advantage.
            After school closed for the day, the writer remonstrated with the teacher for
                    such barbarity; that the pupil did not know why he was punished; that the effect
                    was bad; that revenge and not love would result. The teacher replied that 
                        those boys could never be whipped amiss; and that it had a good effect
                            upon the balance of the school.
                    The school was disorderly and boisterous as a result of such methods of
                    discipline.
            There were "Ichabod Cranes" in Indiana as well as in Sleepy
                    Hollow. This particular teacher was a minister of the gospel, who, the writer
                    sagely remarks, taught the doctrine of "mercy and kindness,
                    long-suffering and patience", one day in the week, and acted the great ruffian
                    the other days. If the Great Teacher's plan with men was to lead and
                    not to drive, how much the more should it be used with children.
            This school was, no doubt, typical of hundreds of others to be found over
                    Indiana; for methods of discipline of this kind were still in use several
                    decades after the time given in this article. This article, going out to Journal subscribers, ought to have aroused every reader from
                    his lethargy to demand reforms in the schools.
            A few months later, another article appeared on the editorial page of the Journal, commenting favorably upon the amount of public
                    attention the Advocate was attracting. The Journal pleaded with the public to sustain the Advocate.
            The Journal spoke once more for the public schools advocating
                    the revision of the school laws, and asking the legislature to authorize the
                    election of a competent state superintendent  of public instruction. This was the first necessary step to be taken to place
                    the schools on the high plane they ought to occupy. The people desired it; a
                    majority of the members of the legislature favored it; all that remained was for
                    a few members to take a stand in pushing the measure.73
            
            COMMON SCHOOL CONVENTION
            
            The Indiana Journal had finally opened its columns to the
                    friends of the common schools. Early in 1847 this paper contained an
                    announcement for a meeting of the citizens of 
                        Indianapolis
                     to make arrangements for holding a convention of all persons
                    friendly to the cause of education. It was decided to hold the convention in the
                    capital city on the fourth Wednesday of the following May. A joint resolution of
                    the legislature had recommended that such a convention be held to devise some
                    efficient system of common school education.74
            
            The convention met on May 25, 1847, in accordance with the previous
                        arrangements.75 It continued in session for three days.
                    The committee on resolutions deplored the fact that Indiana, though advancing
                    rapidly in population and the development of its natural resources, had failed
                    to make a corresponding showing in her efforts to educate the masses of the
                    people. Her system of common school education had been and still continued to be
                    radically defective. A number of resolutions were adopted, favoring free schools
                    as provided for by the constitution, and advocating progressive school measures.
            The first was introductory and was as follows:
            
                    The purity of public and private morals, the security of property, the
                        happiness and good order of society, and the prosperity of the State depend
                        upon the proper education of the people; and that such education can not be
                        obtained without a good and efficient system of common schools.
                
            The second stated the purpose of the common schools:
            
                    The best interests of the State and the people require, that the common
                        schools be made, as far as practicable, free schools.
                
            
               
                  73
                  Indiana Journal, Dec. 29, 1846.
               
                  74
                  Indiana Journal, Feb. 9, 1847.
               
                  75
                  Indiana Journal, June 8,
                    1847.
            
            
            The third stated that the time had come for the legislature to establish such
                    schools.
            The fourth recommended that the legislature should call a special election to
                    enable the people of each county to decide, by majority vote, upon the question
                    of levying a tax for the support of free schools, to supplement the present
                    funds, in order to have a school term of at least three months in each year.
            The next resolution favored the creation of the office of general superintendent
                    of common schools, "to be elected by the people at the general
                    election". The words quoted were an amendment to the original resolution. They
                    were later used in the new constitution in making provision for this office. The
                    people at that time loved their liberty "not wisely but too well".
            A sub-superintendent for each county was favored by the sixth resolution. Several
                    other resolutions were adopted by the convention. One of these favored the
                    teaching of civics in the public schools. Another asked that provision be made
                    to prepare female teachers to teach primary work. A third suggested that
                    graduates of the state university be required to pledge themselves to teach for
                    a certain length of time after graduating. A fourth asked that the seminaries be
                    improved in order to prepare teachers, and that the colleges be requested to do
                    the same.
            The convention arranged for the appointment of a committee of three to prepare
                    the draft of a law embodying these provisions, and to present the same to the
                    next legislature. A committee of seven was also appointed to prepare an address
                    to the people on the subject of common schools.
            This convention showed that the people of the state were being aroused on the
                    public school question and that the legislature could not much longer postpone
                    adequate provision for their support.
            THE CONVENTION BILL
            
            The committee appointed by the convention presented a bill to the legislature in
                    the following December. Governor 
                    Whitcomb's message to the legislature merely mentioned the bill, and
                    then proceeded to excuse the legislature for not aiding the schools owing to the
                    condition of the state's finances, which condition had been brought
                    about by reckless expenditures for public improvements. He expressed a hope that
                    something might be done sometime in the future for the benefit of the
                        schools.76
            
            A discussion of the convention bill, by H. F. West, editor of the Advocate, appeared in the Indiana Journal in
                    February, 1848.77 He regretted that the committee had
                    engrafted the bill upon the old law. The latter should have been discarded
                    entirely, and an entirely new law formed, making use only of what was good in
                    the old law. It should be of simple construction, and made so clear that all
                    could understand its provisions.
            After thorough discussion in the House, that body passed the Convention bill.78 But the Senate postponed action on it until the next
                    session. However, one passage of the bill was separated from it and passed.79 In the introduction to the act passed, the Senate gave
                    its reasons for postponing action on the bill. The bill had come to the Senate
                    so late that the senators did not have enough time to examine it carefully;
                    school laws required time for examination, since they were the most important in
                    the people's code, and were necessarily extensive and complex.
                    Furthermore, if the bill had been passed, it would not have taken effect until
                    after the next meeting of the legislature. Therefore, only the necessary part of
                    the bill was passed.
            THE FIRST REFERENDUM
            
            The act passed provided that, at the regular August election, the voters should
                    cast their ballots for or against the enactment of a law by the next legislature
                    to provide for raising by taxation an amount which, added to the permanent 
                  
                     76
                     House Journal, p. 33, Dec. 11.
                            1847.
                  
                     77
                     Indiana Journal, Feb. 7, 1848.
                  
                     78
                     House Journal, p. 443, Jan.
                            11, 1848.
                  
                     79
                     Laws of Indiana, 1847, p.
                        48.
               
                     fund, would support free schools in all the
                    districts for not less than three nor more than six months in each year.
            The election inspector was to ask each voter, when he presented his ballot, the
                    question, "Are you in favor of free schools?" The clerk should
                    record the answer, and certify the total affirmative and negative votes to the
                    governor, who was to report the total to the legislature on the first day of the
                    next session.
            The Senate was criticized for postponing action on the bill, but its action was
                    defended by "S.L.C." in the Journal.80 Since the bill itself provided for a referendum, he
                    thought that the Senate had done the wise thing to separate this question from
                    the bill and have it voted on by itself. Besides, the people would then have
                    time to study the bill for a year before they were called upon to vote upon it.
                    The decision of the people on the main question would be known by the General
                    Assembly when it met, and the members could then govern themselves accordingly.
                    The Senate deserved praise for postponing the bill; and the Convention
                    committee, the House committee, and the House all merited praise for their
                    efforts.
            Another article, signed "Ajax", 
                        Putnam county
                    , appeared in the Journal the next week.81 He was very much in favor of the Convention bill. He
                    characterized the educational system of Indiana as "covered with wounds
                    and bruises, and putrefying from head to foot" He gave a few criticisms
                    of the bill as he had heard them. Many said that they had
                    "schooled" their children, and it was unfair that they should
                    be taxed for the support of schools for others. The rich objected because they
                    would be compelled to contribute more than their share for the support of
                    schools for the poor. The provision for the offices of county and state
                    superintendents was a "hobgoblin" to others. These reasons
                    given have a familiar sound today. The bill at least aroused the people to act
                    one way or another.
            The press of the state had been slow to awaken on the subject of common schools,
                    but when it was once aroused, it used 
                  
                     80 "S.L.C." in Indiana Journal, Feb. 21, 1848.
                  
                     81 "Ajax", in Indiana
                                Journal, Feb. 28, 1848.
               
                     its influence as a friend of the schools.
                    The Education Society of Indiana held a meeting at 
                        Indianapolis
                     just prior to the referendum on the school law. The size of the
                    audience was a disappointment to the promoters of the meeting. The editor of the
                        Journal made the following comment on the subject:
            
                    This indifference of the great body of our citizens to the subject of common
                        schools is depressing to the spirit of its real friends. But they will not
                        cease in their efforts until their work is accomplished, and every corner of
                        our young State shall witness the dawning of that day, when none shall be
                        left, for the want of means, to grope their way through life in mental
                            darkness.82
               
                
            THE SECOND REFERENDUM
            
            At the session of the legislature following the 1848 referendum, the legislature
                    quickly passed an act embodying the provisions of the Convention bill.83 The law was not to become effective, however, until it
                    was adopted by local option of the counties. This second referendum was held at
                    the August election in 1849. The main provisions of the new act were as follows:
            First, a tax of ten cents on the one hundred dollars was levied on all taxable
                    property.
            Second, a tax of twenty-five cents was yearly assessed on each poll.
            Third, a tax of three dollars was laid on each one hundred dollars of all
                    premiums collected for fire and life insurance. The collecting agent was
                    personally held responsible for the payment, and he was liable to a fine of one
                    hundred dollars for refusal to render schedules when requested to do so.
            These three taxes, together with the surplus revenue fund, the saline fund, and
                    the bank tax fund were collectively denominated the common school fund.
            The office of county school commissioner was abolished. The duties of that office
                    were transferred to the county treasurer and to the county auditor.
            The school funds were to be apportioned to the township 
                  
                     82
                     Indiana Journal, May 29, 1848.
                  
                     83
                     Laws of Indiana, 1848, p.
                        123.
               
                     trustees on the second Saturday of March,
                    on the basis of the number of scholars. This method of distribution has
                    prevailed to the present time. This section was amended two years later, by
                    providing that the township trustees should distribute the funds to the
                    districts on the same basis, the number of scholars.84
            
            The length of term of all schools in any township was to be not less than three
                    months nor more than six.
            The school business of each district was to be transacted by only one trustee,
                    elected annually on the first Monday in September. This trustee was to report to
                    the township clerk the result of any meeting of the electors of his district,
                    and he was to perform such other acts as might be required of him by the
                    township trustees. He was to transact the business of his district as provided
                    for under the old law, but he no longer had control of the school funds of the
                    district. These were left in the care of the township treasurer, and all
                    expenses for the district must be paid by the township treasurer, upon
                    certificate of the district trustee.
            The teacher was required to furnish statistics to the district trustee. His
                    salary was withheld until such reports were made. The district, in turn, must
                    certify these statistics to the township clerk before the fifteenth day of
                    September. The latter must transmit the same to the county auditor before
                    October first. The auditor sent the county report to the state treasurer by
                    November first.
            The act did not follow the suggestions of the Convention resolution for the
                    creation of the offices of county and state superintendents. However, an
                    embryonic state superintendent was provided by making the state treasurer acting
                    state superintendent of common schools. His duties as such were to gather
                    statistics from the county auditors, compile these, and transmit them to the
                    legislature when it convened. This embryo state superintendent matured later
                    when the new constitution went into effect, since that document provided for
                    this office.
            The voters were given the power to levy a tax for special school purposes. They
                    could vote a further tax for tuition 
                  
                     84
                     Laws of Indiana, 1850, p.
                        166.
               
                     purposes, if they desired to have a term of
                    school longer than three months. The total levy they could vote for district
                    purposes was limited to fifteen cents on the one hundred dollars of taxable
                    property.
            The township and district trustees were allowed a salary of seventy-five cents a
                    day for actual time engaged.
            In the county option elections to make the act effective, held in August, 1849,
                    the question to be voted upon was, "Are you in favor of the Acts of
                    1848–1849 to increase and extend the benefits of common
                    schools?" If the majority in any county voted in favor of the act, it
                    would take effect and be in force in such county. All counties which rejected
                    the act at any election must vote upon it regularly at each ensuing general
                    election until it was accepted. Meanwhile, in such counties, the old law
                    continued in force until the new law was adopted. There seemed to be little
                    choice for the voters. They must eventually accept the law.
            There are several features in this act worthy of comment. The school pendulum had
                    swung as far in the direction of self-government and decentralization as
                    possible. It now started towards the other side of the arc. The district still
                    remained the unit, with power in the hands of the voters, delegated to a single
                    trustee. However, the township had regained some authority. The district trustee
                    was subordinate to the township trustees in some respects, and acted mainly as
                    an organ of communication between the people of the district and the township.
                    The township retained control of all funds; this alone would tend to influence
                    the people to recognize this as the superior unit. The county as the unit of
                    local option became of more importance than formerly. The nucleus for the office
                    of state superintendent was formed.
            The most important provision was that of raising revenue for financing the free
                    schools, by the state itself. An advance toward better things for the common
                    schools had been made; and a movement away from extreme decentralization had
                    begun.
            The results of the referendums were tabulated and discussed in the
                    "Views of the People" column of the Indiana
                        Journal by "One of the People". The totals were as follows:85
            
            
               
                  85 "One of the People", in Indiana Journal, June 13, 22, 1849.
            
            
            
               
                  For free schools
                  78,523
               
               
                  Against free schools
                  61,887
               
               
                  Votes cast neither for nor against
                  13,062
               
               
                  Total votes for President, 1848
                  153,462
               
               
                  For the school law
                  79,079
               
               
                  Against the school law
                  63,312
               
               
                  Neither for nor against
                  7,383
               
               
                  Votes cast for Governor, 1849
                  149,774
               
               
                  Counties adopting the law
                  61
               
               
                  Counties rejecting the law
                  29
               
            
            The result of the two showed that the majority of the voters favored state
                    support for free schools. In the local option vote, a majority of those who
                    expressed a choice were in favor of the law passed. Many supported it who
                    objected to some provisions of the law. The two chief objections were:
            First, law-making was a prerogative of the legislature, not of the people. They
                    objected to the local option feature. These represented the conservative
                    element, who believed that local option was unconstitutional.
            Secondly, the county as the local option unit was opposed. The vote should have
                    been state-wide, either adopting the law for the whole state or rejecting it.
                    The adoption of this view would have saved difficulties in the future. The
                    liberals or democrats favored the greatest possible freedom of the people in
                    school affairs. The district was large enough for these. They voted against the
                    adoption of the law, preferring the old system with poor or no schools.
            In his article discussing the law, "One of the People" said
                    that, if the common schools were a legitimate object of state control and
                    supervision, provision for them should be of the most liberal character; should
                    extend to every child; and should not be affected by and boundary except the
                    state line. He favored centralization with the state as the unit.
            If the judge should be paid from the public treasury, so ought the schoolmaster.
                    The former is no more important than the latter to the welfare of the state. If
                    the latter were better patronized and better paid, there would be less need for
                    the services of the former.
            
            The expense of erecting schoolhouses, providing fuel and apparatus, and boarding
                    teachers, like the building of courthouses and jails, payment of jurors, clerks,
                    and associate judges, might properly be defrayed by the municipalities employing
                    them. But the proceeds of the general tax and of the other funds should be
                    expended only for tuition.
            It was thought necessary that the legislature should legalize the result of the
                    referendum by another law. Therefore an act was passed which declared the law in
                    force in those counties which had adopted it. The act provided further that it
                    would be effective in any of the other counties as soon as it was accepted by a
                    majority vote. Fifty-four counties were named in the act as having accepted the
                    law. Evidently, some had not reported when the act was passed. The act also
                    validated any taxes that had been assessed in those counties for the year 1849,
                    and declared that the distribution of school funds in those counties was not
                    affected by its adoption.86
            
            The county option provision created a queer state of affairs in those townships
                    and districts which lay in more than one county. It required several amendments
                    to clear up this condition. The new law would sometimes be in force in one part
                    of a township and the old law in another part. Even districts were divided in
                    this manner. An amendment provided that where there were conflicts of this
                    nature the new law should govern the acts of the trustees and the levying of
                    taxes; and that the school funds should be distributed to the different parts of
                    the districts in just proportion.87
            
            Another amendment provided that if no district trustee had been elected in any
                    district of a county which had adopted the law, the township clerk should
                    appoint a trustee for such district. The new law did not prevent a township from
                    receiving its share of the school funds, provided that the clerk had filed his
                    required report with the auditor before the second Monday in March.88
            
            
               
                  86
                  Laws of Indiana, p. 191.
               
                  87
                  Laws of Indiana, 1849, p. 202.
               
                  88
                        Ibid, Jan. 3, 18500.
            
            
            THE NEW CONSTITUTION
            
            Meanwhile, the people had adopted a new constitution in 1851.89 Article VIII deals with the schools. The first section makes it the
                    duty of the General Assembly 
                        to provide by law for a general and uniform system of common schools,
                            wherein tuition shall be without charge, and equally open to all.
                    
                
            A state superintendent was provided for, who is at the head of the schools of the
                    state. A permanent school fund was established. It consists of the following
                    funds, the value or estimated value of each of which was given in Gov. Joseph A.
                    Wright's message to the legislature in 1851:90
            
            
               
                  Congressional township fund
                  $1,614,863.45
               
               
                  Surplus revenue fund
                  552,529.92
               
               
                  Bank tax fund
                  56,969.04
               
               
                  Saline fund
                  61,320.05
               
               
                  County seminary fund (est.)
                  100,000.00
               
               
                  Bank profits in treasury
                  706,784.62
               
               
                  Sinking fund on mortgage
                  421,872.28
               
               
                  School lands unsold (est.)
                  250,000.00
               
               
                  Swamp lands (est.)
                  1,000,000.00
               
               
                  Fines for breaches of penal laws
                  
               
               
                  Forfeitures of bonds
                  
               
               
                  Escheats of property
                  
               
               
                  Total value of funds
                  $4,664,279.36
               
            
            The principal of these funds shall forever remain a perpetual fund, which may be
                    increased, but never diminished. Only the interest may be used and for no other
                    purpose than the support of the common schools. It shall be invested in a safe
                    and profitable manner.
            SUMMARY
            
            In the foregoing discussion the writer has attempted to show that the basis for
                    our school system was laid by the Congress of the Confederation in its two most
                    famous ordinances; 
                  
                     89
                            Latos of Indiana, 1851, p. 20.
                  
                     90
                            House Journal, p. 20, Dec. 2, 1851.
               
                     in the Enabling Act of Congress for
                    Statehood; and by the Constitution of 1816.
            During the first decade under the constitution, very little was done towards
                    establishing free schools by the new state because of the want of funds and of
                    the lack of interest on the part of the people. An attempt was made to organize
                    the schools with the congressional township as the unit of administration, but
                    this method proved to be very weak; so in 1824, the legislature adopted another
                    plan, which gave the larger part in the management of schools to the district
                    under subtrustees.
            As this was about the beginning of the period of democratic government throughout
                    the middle west, the sentiment for home rule in local affairs, especially in
                    school affairs, grew, until, by 1833, the district was given complete control of
                    school affairs. The township then served merely as a means of communication
                    between the district and the county. The last-named unit had control of the
                    congressional school funds, and for the latter half of the period teachers were
                    examined and licensed by county officials.
            Decentralization was carried still further in 1836 when the family became the
                    school unit in districts without public schools. This process reached its lowest
                    point in 1841, when the voters of the district were given power to exempt
                    teachers from examination.
            During the forties, educators and other leaders aroused the people to the needs
                    of better schools, by means of school conventions; through the press, which had
                    shown little interest before that; and by means of school journals, which were
                    appearing on the scene.
            The governors of the state, from 
                        Jennings
                     to Whitcomb, kept firing messages into the ranks of the legislators
                    in advocacy of free schools, until the timid lawmakers could no longer withstand
                    the attacks of the forces of free schools, and at last appealed to the people in
                    two referendums.
            The first of these authorized the legislature to pass an effective school law,
                    containing provisions for raising funds by taxation. The second accepted, by
                    county option, the law passed by the legislature. Three-fourths of the counties
                         adopted the new measure. Both elections
                    gave a good majority in favor of better schools. The first gave a clear majority
                    in favor of being taxed for school support. The people had decided in favor of
                    the American policy in education.
            The law which was thus adopted provided for a minimum term of three months for
                    all districts and a maximum term of six months, to be decided by the patrons of
                    the district. This law put a stop to the decentralization policy, and increased
                    the authority of the township in school affairs.
            The sentiment in favor of free schools became so strong by the middle of the
                    century, that the new constitution, adopted in 1851, gave ample power to the
                    legislature in school affairs, established a permanent fund for the support of
                    common schools, and provided for a state superintendent to head the school
                    system.
            The friends of the common schools had won their fight and a new day dawned for
                    the public schools of Indiana.
         
         
         
            The Lanier Family and The Lanier Home
            By BLANCHE GOODE GARBER, 
                        Madison
                    
            
            One hundred years ago, lacking just thirteen days, a stranger came to 
                        Madison
                     whose earthly possessions consisted only of a wealth of kin and a
                    surname, which surname was Lanier. To it was prefixed that of his grandfather,
                    recently deceased, Alexander Chalmers.
            Alexander Lanier, the elder, was a son of James Lanier, who appears in family
                    records as a planter, well educated, a cultivated gentleman, energetic and
                    public spirited; a captain in Col. William Washington's regiment of
                    light cavalry; also a captain in General Wayne's expedition against the
                    Indians of the Northwest.
            Alexander, the grandfather, was born in 
                        Virginia
                     in mid-revolutionary times, January, 1778; was married to Drusilla
                    Cleaves Doughty, and died in 
                  Lexington, Ky.
               , in March, 1820; their son James Franklin Doughty
                    Lanier, was born in 
                        North Carolina
                    , but his home from childhood was in 
                        Kentucky
                     until 1817, when his parents moved to 
                        Madison
                    , Ind.
            In 1819 he married Miss Elizabeth Gardiner. of 
                        Augusta county
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , later of 
                  Lexington, Ky.
               , and at the time of her marriage, of 
                        Madison
                    , Ind. Alexander Chalmers Lanier, the younger, was their eldest
                    child, but just where their early home was is uncertain so the house where he
                    was born cannot be located, if it is still standing. It is both asserted and
                    denied that the present Colonial Inn was at one time their home. When it first
                    became the William McKee Dunn home is not clear, but such it was for years and
                    from it they moved when they went from 
                        Madison
                     to locate in 
                        Washington City
                    .
            It is said that here Elizabeth Lanier, the oldest daughter, was married to
                    William McKee Dunn, and it is certain that here Drusilla, the second daughter,
                    was married to John R. Cravens. The inference is that it must have been the
                    family home.
            
            The story of the building of this house is unusual. A man came to town one day,
                    with so much of value in stocks, bonds, etc., in a tin box, that he dared not
                    retain it in his own keeping over night, so went to the bank direct from the
                    boat, carrying the box himself, for safety and deposited it unopened.
            He lived the life of a gentleman of wealth and leisure, borrowed on the credit of
                    the deposit, and spent lavishly, having won the confidence of the monied men of
                    the town. Such an advent was not so remarkable then as it would be now.
            He at last announced that he was going to build a home and was welcomed as a
                    permanent resident. The reputation established by his reckless spending and his
                    strong box made easy borrowing money on these and the house, which was a
                    pleasing one to the new town.
            The memory of after years was that he never occupied it, no family materialized,
                    that it was all a piece of bravado required by his rather original
                    get-rich-quick scheme. When it was completed, or perhaps before, he vanished
                    into the nowhere whence he came, leaving his "strong box" and
                    his abundant debts. His creditors at last opened the box and found in it
                    absolutely nothing of value. The house went for his debts and it was remembered,
                    but has not been so proven, that J. F. D. Lanier owned it, either by purchase or
                    took it in payment of debt.
            The family home, beyond question, was on the north-east corner of the present
                    Museum grounds, while this house was being built. The house they occupied was a
                    two storied brick, built on the then approved model, room after room, with a
                    long hall at the side, with second story and attic. It was later removed,
                    probably in the sixties, when the graperies were built on this location.
            It must have been but a tarrying place for convenience in superintending the
                    construction of the new one, for the latter, as the newel-plates tell us, was in
                    1844, the year of the Cravens wedding in the Colonial Inn of today.
            To the new house, the fulfilment of cherished dream, the builders came with five
                    of their eight children. The two oldest daughters had then homes of their own,
                    and the second  son had been drowned in the 
                        Ohio
                    . But the dream was brief as fair, for the Reaper we call Death
                    claimed the wife and mother, and her home cares devolved on Margaret, the eldest
                    daughter at home.
            The following years were devoted to the education of the young people. 
                        Madison
                     social and educational advantages were then excelled nowhere and
                    here they spent the early years of school life; later all completed their
                    studies in the east, at 
                        New Haven
                     Schools, and the sons at Yale. Alex, at least, was graduated from
                    Yale in 1846. While there, he was a member of the famed "Skull and
                    Bones" society.
            One vivid recollection of 
                        New Haven
                     school life was the squirming shower of caterpillars shed from the
                    avenue of elm trees which led to the church, and of this each one had a story to
                    tell. Mrs. Cravens could never forget her class of girls, with empty bottles to
                    receive the caterpillars they picked from their clothes during service each
                    Sunday.
            In 1848, J. F. D. Lanier relinquished 
                        Madison
                     banking to take up banking in 
                        New York
                    . On leaving here, he married Miss Mary McClure, and the family,
                    consisting of Alex, Mary, Louisa and Charles, became the household in this home,
                    all dividing their time between it and the 
                        New York
                     home except Alex, who accepted the responsibility imposed by the
                    law of primogeniture, the head of the household, and fulfilled the wish of his
                    father by keeping it still as the "old home" of the family.
                    Thus the original plan for the house he had builded, Mr. Lanier did not abandon
                    when he left it himself; he endowed it liberally, and added a sufficient annual
                    bequest to his successor who was to carry out his purpose to enable him to
                    maintain it as a veritable "Sans Souci", which he did until his death.
            On the marriage of Mary to Mr. Stone of 
                        New York
                    , and her removal to that city, the younger children made their
                    homes with their father and sisters, and Mr. Alex became sole permanent
                    proprietor. His reduced household he augmented by invitations, and when he
                    could, claimed as co-residents his unmarried nephews. Robert and Will Cravens
                    made their home with him at different times; also Mrs. Stone, in her widowhood,
                    with her young daughters, Lizzie and Minnie, and  a charming French companion, Fannie Polet. The
                    latter was a woman of rare refinement, address, and well educated, from 
                        Lausanne
                    , 
                        Switzerland
                    , speaking her native tongue with a charm possessed by few,
                    musically and correctly. She is now in the home for aged French women in 
                        New York
                    , conducted by the French Women's Christian Society, and
                    now as then beloved by all who know her.
            Architecture, like statuary, is a mute language to convey the unutterable
                    impulses of thought to other minds, present and to come. This message the
                    builders of this home have bequeathed to us. The material gift by which we are
                    enriched is that of the youngest son, Charles, now the last of the family of
                    five sisters and three sons, but the life fragrance which embalms it with happy
                    memories is that of the eldest son, Mr. Alex Lanier. To call him by any other
                    form of his name would seem unnatural to any of his contemporaries now living,
                    except the few who adopted the "Uncle Alex" of near
                    friendship.
            In such an environment, and relieved of all financial care, his life flowed on as
                    a song. One remarkable fact is, that though for the greater part of a century
                    this home housed a family, and successive branches of it, with guests
                    innumerable, it has never harbored the extremes of youth or age. It is the birth
                    place of no one, and while the hush of death has reigned often within its
                    sheltering walls, it has witnessed the passing of but two, Mr. Alex Lanier and
                    his mother. But one marriage illumines its records, and of that a true tale
                    should be told.
            The bride was Margaret, the fourth child, and third daughter of the house, at the
                    time filling the place made vacant by the death of the mother. On the morning of
                    the wedding day, a bridal cake, such as only a bride-to-be would order, was sent
                    from the confectioner's by a boy half grown. Margaret herself answered
                    the knock at the north door of the breakfast room, and perhaps dazzled the
                    messenger with her comeliness, for he dropped the cake from the glass stand
                    enthroning it, and with all its bridal adornment it lay in fragments at their
                    feet. A wave of horror swept over the boy, but the amiable Miss
                    Lanier—Mrs. Winslow of after years—said: "Never
                    mind, here's the money, run back quick and have another made just like
                    it. I won't tell anybody and don't you."
            
            To his dying day, the boy, grown to manhood and age, told this as the greatest
                    glory of the Lanier name, and so it was, the expression of a kindly spirit that
                    could put itself in the place of others. This it was in her brother which made
                    the bachelor's hall of many decades the delight it was to Madisonians.
                    No one ever said of it: "Bachelor's Hall. Oh! what a queer
                    place it is", for its genial welcome was the same for all and always the same.
            Endowed by nature with a rare social nature, and this birthright symmetrically
                    developed by a liberal education and cultured surroundings, Mr. Lanier fitted
                    well the part he was called to fill in the life of his period in 
                        Madison
                    .
            In 1858 he became a member of the Second Presbyterian church, to which his
                    parents, sister and brother belonged. During the remainder of his life he was a
                    devoted church worker in all the activities of this church. His doors were
                    always thrown open for church purposes, socials, deservedly popular. It was his
                    delight to entertain. He was for many years a faithful teacher in the Sunday
                    School, his class of boys loyal and true to him as boys only can be, though he
                    did honestly confess that while his class was a promising one, it was not much
                    of a performing one. He was a deacon, and though elected a ruling elder,
                    declined the office for conscientious reasons, because the rule laid down in the
                    Bible was that a Bishop (which in the Presblyterian Church is an Elder) must be
                    the husband of one wife and he had none. Friends suggested that it meant but one
                    wife, but he could not be convinced.
            Mr. Lanier's home was not alone a center for the social life of his
                    church, but for his circle of friends; brilliant scenes of gay assemblies are
                    recalled by many.
            The interior fell to him complete, and he kept it so. The grounds were his
                    creation. The deer-like cows of his pasture grazed or rested contentedly under
                    the lone monarchs of the forest the axe-men had spared, and came lowing to their
                    sheltering roof on the western border of the garden as the shades of evening
                    fell. Then, too, to well appointed and picturesque kennels the group of blooded
                    and pedigreed, combed and curried hunting dogs sauntered for their suppers and
                    slumbers. The garden lay between the homes of the canines and the kine. Here
                    dwarf fruit trees of choicest varieties, berries and good  things less poetic abounded; wire frames draped
                    with varicolored sweet-peas screened the homelier but more necessary food
                    patches; holly, red with berries in their season, hydrangeas, wisterias,
                    clematis, syringas and spireas, flowers of each season in its turn, kept a
                    ceaseless successing of bloom.
            On the north-east stood the graperies, glass houses of shapeliest design, through
                    which peeped the luscious fruit—purple grapes, red grapes and white
                    ones.
            Touch not, handle not, was the unspoken rule of these grounds for their quality
                    commanded respect, but by the invitation of the host, all who came tasted, and
                    those who could not come, for beautiful fruit-laden baskets from here sought the
                    shut-ins from the wealth of luxury these grounds supplied. For it was his
                    pleasure to share with his friends his best. He delighted in hunting and game of
                    rare kinds he divided with the sick and those he held dear.
            He was a student of floriculture and of horticulture and active as a member of
                    the State Horticulture society; its president at one time, and one of its
                    founders it is said, but facts on these points have not been obtainable.
            Beautiful as was his life, it was not all unshadowed. He was with his brother
                    John when he was drowned, and the grief that he could not save him bore heavily
                    on him to the end of his days. He spoke often of it, but never with dry eyes.
            It was in 1836 when he was sixteen and John nine. They went to the river in the
                    family carriage to swell the wheels and to water the horses, for the city had no
                    water system at that time.
            The driver, a young colored man, drove into the river at the foot of Mulberry
                    Street and struck the quick sand there, which takes toll of human life almost
                    annually. Alex, trammeled by water-soaked garments, was unable to do more than
                    reach the shore, and his brother, the driver, and the horses and the carriage
                    were all swallowed by the quicksand, washed later down the river and found far
                    to the westward.
            Another sorrow he buried down deep in his heart for many a long year, but which
                    in these latter days may be told as a romance in real life. When he left for
                    Yale, he bore with him a consuming but unspoken devotion to the reigning beauty
                    of 
                    
                        Madison
                    . He had but one thought, to claim her as his own when the fulness
                    of time should come, which in those days of discreetness, was when
                    one's school days were ended. He came back to find her betrothed to an
                    unsuspected rival and with dutiful fidelity to her youthful vow, she fulfilled
                    her plighted troth, and became the bride of the fortunate kival. Mr. Lanier
                    accepted the role of bachelor friend of both, and from the hanging of the crane
                    on the new hearthstone till near half a century later, when death severed the
                    bond, no one mourned more than he did the parting with his successful rival, he
                    was an almost daily visitor in their home, biding his time.
            November 21, 1889, the marriage of the patient lover and the still radiantly
                    beautiful widow, Mrs. Stella Godman Sering, was solemnized in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , at the home of her daughter, Mrs. Charles Walcott.
            To this date, J. F. D. Lanier had held the title to the property in his own name
                    as the family home still. Now the status was changed and the title passed to Mr.
                    Alex in his own right.
            An outline of the title has been asked and by courtesy of Mr. Fred Watson,
                    Recorder, secured, and with the consent of the family who have always held the
                    deed, herewith given. The items in the abstract read: 
                        PATENT: James Madison to John Paul, Lewis Davis and Jonathan Lyon, August
                            13, 1812.
                        ADMINISTRATORS' DEED: John P. Paul (son of John Paul), William
                            Hendricks, Administrators of John Paul, Dec'd, to J. F. D.
                            Lanier, Oct. 6, 1831.
                        DEED: James F. D. Lanier and Mary McClure, his wife, to Alexander C.
                            Lanier, his heirs and assigns, November 18, 1889.
                        WILL. Alexander C. Lanier to Stella L. Lanier, December 10, 1889.
                        DEED: Stella L. Lanier to Elizabeth G. Davidson, May 26, 1898.
                        DEED: Elizabeth G. Davidson to Drusilla L. Cravens, May 9, 1902.
                        DEED: Drusilla L. Cravens to Charles Lanier, April 26, 1917.
                        DEED: Charles Lanier to 
                                Jefferson County
                             Historical Society, April 30, 1917.
                    
                
            In the last there is a reversionary clause by which provision is made for the
                    return of the property to Drusilla L. Cravens if it should ever be abandoned as
                    a museum.
            Having held the home in trust for the family from 1848 to  1889, the forty-one years of hopefulness, scarcely
                    of expectancy, culminated in the realization of his life dream, and as Benedict
                    and Lord Proprietor of the home which had become a part of himself, Mr. Lanier
                    basked in condensed sunshine, taking no note of time while six swift years sped
                    by, and at their close, as at the end of a perfect day, he passed from fields
                    Elysian here to fields Elysian there.
            After a sojourn of weeks in 
                        Indianapolis
                     under the care of specialists, he fell on slumber in his own loved
                    home, as the autumn sun was sinking to its temporary rest and the afternoon
                    shadows were beginning to lengthen among his surrounding treasures October 11,
                    1895.
            As the heavy message spread from one to another, 
                        Madison
                     bowed her head in sorrow, and beyond her borders, Madisonians
                    everywhere shared the grief as a personal loss.
            The burial was in 
                        Springdale
                     Cemetery, Monday, October 14th, from the home, the services being
                    conducted by his pastor and friend, the Rev. Joseph H. Barnard of the Second
                    Presbyterian church, and the Rev. W. S. Barnes, of Trinity Methodist church, a
                    personal friend. An obituary in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal said of him:
            The death of Mr. A. C. Lanier, of 
                        Madison
                    , removes the last male representative of the name in the state, of
                    a family whose connections with the commercial and social life of Indiana for
                    three-quarters of a century has been conspicuously honorable.
            These facts are but a thread on which to crystallize memories so abundant that
                    time will fail to tell us even a small part of them; but if they in any way or
                    measure serve to re-animate a vanishing past too full of charm and inspiration
                    to be willingly lost, it will not have been in vain.
            If we could but restore the material beauty of this place, so if, as an unseen
                    presence Mr. Lanier could be with us still, he would be satisfied, what a glory
                    it would be!
            BLANCHE GOODE GARBER.
            Read at a monthly meeting of the 
                        Jefferson
                     Historical Society in the Museum, Thursday, September 23, 1920.
         
         
         
            Some Interesting 
                        Crawfordsville
                     People and Their Homes
            By JULIA LECLERC
                        KNOX, 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Ind.
            
               
                        Crawfordsville
                    , one of the best looking cities of its size and age, to be found
                    anywhere, has long prided itself on being called the "
                        Athens
                    " of Indiana. It claims this honor by virtue of the fact
                    that it was once the home of both General Lew Wallace and Maurice Thompson;
                    Misses Mary Hannah and Caroline Krout have lived here all their lives; Meredith
                    Nicholson was born in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     as was also Kenyon Nicholson, a rising young playwright, who has
                    collaborated some with his cousin, Meredith.
            General Wallace's only child, 
                        Henry
                    , preserves his residence here though he spends much of his time
                    elsewhere and the grandson, the general's namesake, comes occasionally
                    with his young family on visits. Maurice Thompson's only surviving
                    daughter and her husband, Mr. Long, are residents of this place also.
            The Maurice Thompson home, a most picturesque old building on the outskirts of
                    the city, has recently been reduced to a pile of brick, no one seems to know
                    why. It stood on a rising knoll, facing the north. A veranda with an iron
                    railing skirted the upper front story but there was none on the ground floor.
                    This gave an essentially distinctive appearance. The house extended back quite a
                    bit in a diminishing scale as to width until it sort of "petered
                    out" just at the downward slope. A little brick spring house humbly
                    brought up the rear like a maid servant.
            It was in an October gloaming, long after the place had been unoccupied that the
                    writer, accompanied by a friend of the Thompson family, approached the spot,
                    once the home of this versatile Hoosier who had been poet, novelist, essayist,
                    historian and naturalist.
            
            In some unexplainable way the House of a Thousand Candles was
                    suggested. As we reached the spring-house coming up from the rear, mysterious
                    sounds assailed our ears, interrupting my friend's reminiscences of the
                    pleasant times she had spent in the former hospitality of this interesting
                    family. A certain uncanniness thrilled us as if we were living a few pages out
                    of one of Anna Katherine Green's best sellers. But when we reached the
                    side porch we saw carpenter's, not burglar's tools and found
                    Mr. Long superintending the repairs on the door locks. He said the house had
                    been rifled of much of its copper equipment. When my companion introduced me as
                    an admirer of Mr. Thompson, the son-in-law kindly vouchsafed us a peep at the
                    within but as it was growing dark, only a dim recollection of a confused,
                    dust-covered library remains. Mr. Long presented us with copies of Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
                from a stack of books on the shelves.
            It would, indeed, be a stolid sort of person who could not get a thrill out of
                    this contact, slight, though it was, with a spot hallowed by the one time
                    presence of Maurice Thompson, an experience bound in gold. We planned to explore
                    further at a future time but the old house passed, as one might say, to the
                    Button Moulder before another opportunity presented itself.
            The show place of 
                        Crawfordsville
                     is the studio of General Lew Wallace. It is the Mecca of all
                    visitors to the city. The premises are owned and maintained by the Wallace
                    family and are free to the public. The tome-like guest-book registers names
                    widely separated, geographically but here united by the common tie of doing
                    reverence to a great man.
            The studio is beautifully situated, a wide stretch of ground surrounding, with
                    dimples here and there in the velvety sward and majestic old trees, lending
                    their dignity.
            Immediately at the side and rear is the flower garden as it was made by General
                    Wallace. The birds come here earliest and remain the longest. The entrance gate
                    is designed after that of the Abbey of the Church of St. Pierre (eleventh
                    century) 
                        Vezelay
                    , 
                        France
                    . The building was planned and its erection personally superintended
                    by the General. It is of red brick with one room and an alcove and the closet
                    like  apartment which he used as a
                    sculptor's studio. The mosque-like dome and the unusual shape give it a
                    Turkish appearance. The sculptured frieze represents the Prince of 
                        India
                     and the mother and sister of Ben Hur.
            In this building are preserved many interesting mementoes of the General and his
                    wife, Susan B. Wallace, also a writer of some note, together with the war
                    souvenirs of the grandson, William Noble Wallace, who at twenty-three gave his
                    life for the nation in the World War. He left Yale in 1916 to enlist and after
                    being severely wounded in action was once more in the trench when he volunteered
                    to sketch the enemy's front line, a very daring deed. He accomplished
                    the undertaking but was killed by a shell as he was returning. Lieutenant
                    Wallace was awarded the American Field Service Medal and posthumously given the
                    Distinguished Service Cross and also the Navy Cross for extraordinary heroism.
                    He evidently caught the torch his grandsire tossed to him.
            A wide variety of relies fill the room. In revolving fixtures are letters of
                    distinguished individuals. Three presidents of the U. S. are represented. There
                    is one from Gov. David Wallace, the father of the author, one from Richard
                    Gatling, inventor of the first rapid fire gun, one from the Turkish minister,
                    written at the request of the Sultan, urging General Wallace to return to 
                        Turkey
                    . There are many commissions and proclamations of historical
                    interest.
            The framed original MSS. of Fair God, the first copy (in
                    pencil) of the Ben Hur MSS. as well as the raised letter
                    edition for the blind are of special fascination. Here is the private library of
                    the General just as he left it. Some of Mrs. Wallace's scrap books add
                    that personal, intimate touch characteristic of scrap books. A lovely portrait
                    of her in oil, by A. Benziger hangs on the west wall. It is taken from an old
                    daguerreotype. The face is full of strength and sweetness. His violin and her
                    guitar, linked together with a fragment of one of her wedding dresses (May,
                    1852) furnish a touching bit of sentiment and suggests what must have been a
                    wonderful congeniality of these kindred spirits.
            There is a water color of General Wallace by Will P. Noble of the period of the
                    siege of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Near it is a wood  engraving
                    presented by Benson J. Lossing, the historian, because of its remarkable
                    likeness to the general. The bronze bust of him on the west mantel was cast from
                    the clay modelled by Randolph Rogers, the sculptor, a parting souvenir of the
                    siege of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 1862, where he was a member of General Wallace's military
                    staff together with James E. Murdock, the actor, and Thomas Buchanan Read, the
                    poet and artist. This bust is said to be a perfect likeness. Rogers is famous
                    for the bronze doors of the Capitol at 
                        Washington
                     and his statue of "Nydia", the blind girl in
                    Bulwer-lytton's Last Days of Pompeii. A study in oil,
                    "Old Age", by Thomas Buchanan, was presented by him to his military
                    commander whom he greatly admired.
            A number of paintings by Wallace himself are on the walls. The most striking is a
                    large, unfinished oil, entitled "The Conspirators". The picture of
                    Booth is instantly recognizable. (General Wallace was a member of the commission
                    that convicted 
                        Lincoln
                    's assassins.)
            Among the various pictures is one of a Turkish princess, presented by the Sultan
                    of 
                        Turkey
                    . The eyes of the Oriental flapper seem to follow one all around the
                    room in true vamp style.
            Some of the art treasures picked up abroad are: an antique chair from the
                    Imperial City, a censor from a Roman cathedral and a Carrara marble copy of
                    Angelo's "Lorenzo de Medici" brought from Florence by
                    the General.
            There is a gavel used in the 
                        Lincoln
                    -Douglas debates, flags and military equipment of all kinds, a shoe
                    from John, the old war horse, fishing outfits, mixed with oriental pipes, etc.
            In a glass case are several pencil sketches, studies in clay and plaster,
                    illustrative of the wide variety of interests of this remarkable man. Here also
                    his pen rack, paper weight, pens and scissors give an intimate personal glimpse.
            A bronze statue of the General on the grounds just west of the study, was cast in 
                        Paris
                     from the model made for the Carrara marble statue by Andrew
                    O'Conner, presented to the 
                        United States
                     Congress by the state of Indiana, for the Hall of Fame in the U. S.
                    Capitol. The pedestal is inscribed with the words—"Author, Diplomat,
                    Soldier". To these might be  added artist,
                    sculptor, musician. This life-size statue marks the spot where the Ben-Hur beech
                    offered its protection to Lew Wallace when he was writing.
            Go when you will to this literary and historical shrine, there are always others
                    there, moving about in admiring reverence.
            Adjoining the study but now separated by a high brick wall, is the one time
                    residence of the Wallaces. The house is frame and is uninteresting and ordinary
                    and Victorian now that the soul of it has departed along with the furnishings,
                    the outward expression of the gifted personalities of the former owners. In the
                    front room is the old desk and chair of the General and on the mantel is the
                    plaster cast of him made by himself. The silver closet, private dressing room
                    and den of Mrs. Wallace is shown the visitor but none of the furniture remains.
            A short distance away is the stately old home of Senator Henry S. Lane. He and
                    General Wallace both married daughters of Majdr Isaac Elston who originally
                    owned all the land on which these houses are built and from whom it descended to
                    his children. The Lane mansion is an unusually interesting and picturesque place
                    and the citizens of 
                        Crawfordsville
                     are justly very proud of it. The present owner, Miss Helen Elston
                    Smith, a niece of both Senator Lane's and Gen. Lew Wallace's
                    wife, is a most gracious hostess, unselfishly sharing her lovely home with all
                    who are interested in what it represents, thus making this historical treasure
                    house a community asset.
            The place occupies four acres and while one may see old colonial mansions that
                    may compare with this especial one, it is very seldom indeed, that one is found
                    with such an exquisite setting. The house is situated half a block from the
                    street and is approached by a paved path through an avenue of dignified trees of
                    not quite as many varieties as those of the forest in Spenser's Faerie Queene. The grounds are remarkable for natural beauty
                    and are a delight to the eye at all seasons of the year.
            The architecture of the house is pure colonial of the southern rather than the
                    eastern type. A terrace runs across the entire front and half way round the
                    sides. Ionic columns prevail.  On the north
                    side there are two Romeo-and-Juliet-like balconies opening from an upper room.
                    There is a lion's head knocker on the front hall door which one feels
                    is just as it should be.
            The house, a brick, was built by the Senator just before the Mexican War in which
                    he served as Major of Volunteers. His framed commission, signed by James
                    Whitcomb, then governor of this state, hangs in the hall as does the sword he
                    used and a Mexican blanket, of a wonderful texture, is thrown as a drape over
                    the door in the living room.
            Senator Lane was prominent in politics. An interesting reminder of this is a
                    framed Republican state ticket that hangs on the wall. The following notables
                    were candidates on the same ticket:
            Governor: Henry S. Lane.
            Lieut. Governor: Oliver P. Morton.
            Reporter of Supreme Court: Benj. Harrison.
            Congressman for the Ninth District: Schuyler Colf ax.
            Near is a portrait of the senator painted by his brother-in-law, Lew Wallace.
            The house, itself, is very interesting and reminds one very much of the Van
                    Courtlandt Mansion of 
                        New York City
                    . The latter is owned and exhibited by the Colonial Dames.
            The ground plan of the Lane home is that of all houses of its kind and period. A
                    central hall has rooms on each side and a stairway leading upward. Although she
                    has added greatly to the original beauty, Miss Smith has carefully preserved the
                    intrinsic harmony and everything is in keeping. The old velvet carpets have not
                    been replaced, the old rosewood piano, the onyx topped tables, the quaint
                    foot-stools, brass fenders, and andirons and the wonderful silver candle sticks,
                    inherited from Miss Smith's grandfather, remain in their rightful,
                    accustomed places in parlor and living rooms.
            A remarkable old hat rack in the hall is carved in grotesque tree shaped fashion,
                    somehow suggesting Dore's sketches. Cherry and mahogany pedestal and
                    drop leaf tables meet the eye at every turn. Some are inlaid and one dating back
                    to 1830, is topped with Italian marble. An uncut velvet settee occupies a
                    conspicuous place in the living room.  Full
                    length engravings of Napoleon III and Eugenie are hung on opposite sides of the
                    mantel piece in the front parlor.
            Tall gilt framed pier glasses of the style of the Empire, in every direction,
                    reflect present day situations, one might fancy, with an air of indignity that
                    they should have fallen upon these times.
            The dining room intrigues the imagination. One can easily picture 
                        Washington
                    's being entertained in this picturesque room. A saucer,
                    once the property of "the father of our country", is shown us. To
                    handle it seems to destroy the intervening time and condition between us and the
                    immortal George. We almost feel as if we had shaken the hand that made us a
                    nation and, as man to man, wished our first president good day. An antique
                    sideboard, with a history, wonderful old china, silver tea urns and a miraculous
                    revolving, silver caster crown the picture.
            A great copy of Raphael's "Transfiguration" hangs on
                    the wall at the first landing of the front stair case. We can imagine we are
                    looking at the original.
            True to old colonial form, very few of the upper rooms are on the same floor,
                    there are either a few steps down or a few steps up. In these rooms further
                    delights await the student of things antique. On either side of the front hall
                    are two large, airy bed rooms. In the one on the left is a great mahogany four
                    poster with a foot stool by which to mount it, a highboy with glass knobs, a
                    Shearaton dressing table and chair, a gate-legged table, etc. Wonderful to the
                    eye of the artist are the lines of the old Windsor chair in which Miss'
                    Smith's grandmother was resting when her final summons came. Bohemian
                    perfume bottles and quaint old dresser ornaments are in rare profusion. An old
                    bureau in the hall has the traditional secret drawer.
            The guest room opposite is more modern in appointment. Here are an Austrian
                    writing desk, Japanese inlaid and lacquered tables and boxes and many art
                    treasures picked up on Miss Smith's frequent trips abroad. A small
                    framed piece of the Alhambra among these must not be overlooked. One of the
                    first things to strike the eye on entering this room is an original
                        Audubon,. Think of it!! It is quite large and occupies  a place of honor over the mantel. A bath room is
                    reached by a door that appears to be a panel in the wall. It gives one the
                    thrilly sensation of a secret spring, etc.
            There are many other apartments opening off in unexpected ways. You suddenly find
                    yourself in den, library, bedroom or bath, with a closet here and there, each
                    having a piquancy of its own. There are porches galore, sleeping and otherwise,
                    and on one lives a nesting dove.
            Two of the most interesting women in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     are the real, live authoresses, Misses Mary Hannah and Caroline
                    Krout. They have both written quite a bit but are, perhaps, best known by the
                    poem "Little 
                        Brown
                     Hands" and Knights in Fustian. These two
                    ladies are very approachable and through a mutual friend the writer was accorded
                    a couple of interviews.
            After several years of teaching Miss Mary Hannah entered the field of journalism
                    and was employed on the editorial staff of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Inter Ocean. She was sent to 
                        Indianapolis
                     as political correspondent during the presidential candidacy of
                    General Harrison, a warm friend of her family. After the abdication of Queen
                    Liliukalana she was sent to 
                        Hawaii
                     where she remained until after the establishment of the provisional
                    government, writing of political and economic conditions. When an effort was
                    made to reinstate the Queen, she returned to the Islands. After finishing her
                    work there she went on to 
                        New Zealand
                     and 
                        Australia
                    , visiting Samoa and Tasmania en route. She was accorded a cordial
                    welcome everywhere by the officials of the various governments. She served on
                    the Board of Women Commissioners during the World's Fair at 
                        Chicago
                     and soon afterwards was sent to 
                        London
                     as staff correspondent for the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Inter Ocean. Here she remained for three years. With 
                        London
                     as headquarters she traveled in 
                        Scotland
                    , 
                        Ireland
                     and 
                        Scandinavia
                    . She also visited 
                        Paris
                     and made a trip to 
                        Switzerland
                    .
            The two most important events of the 
                        London
                     commission were the Jameson trial which she witnessed throughout
                    and the Jubilee celebration of Victoria. Before leaving 
                        London
                     her first book was written and accepted by John Murray and a
                    second, A Looker On In 
                            London
                        
                was completed. She again  re-visited 
                        New Zealand
                     and 
                        Australia
                    , writing for the Australian press and lecturing on American
                    affairs. Later she spent a year in 
                        China
                     and made a trip to 
                        Japan
                    .
            She brought back a veritable museum of souvenirs from the lands she saw. Amongst
                    there are: a wooden calabash, presented by a lady in waiting to Queen
                    Liliukalana, tapa draperies from Samoa, hand turned brass candle sticks from
                    Benares, a sacred dragon from 
                        Pekin
                    , a picture of kittens made out of cotton. This strange work of art
                    was given her at a feast in her honor by the mother of the Imperial Treasurer at 
                        Pekin
                    . (Miss Krout modestly hastened to explain that this was brought
                    about in deference to her friend, an American woman physician at the Methodist
                    Mission.) There is also an embroidered visiting card of a Chinese grandee; a
                    stone from the Great Wall of 
                        China
                    , picked up by herself; a decoration from a royal Chinese tomb,
                    presumably that of the Emperor Ming who dates back to 1403; a lantern made from
                    a real fish from Honolulu; a seed pod that she gathered from an Australian
                    forest; Indian pottery from 
                        New Zealand
                    ; a statue of a wind god from 
                        Japan
                     and so many other unusual souvenirs that the memory of the writer
                    became so thoroughly waterlogged as to utterly refuse to function further. Yet a
                    lovely German print of the Sphynx, the present of a friend in Kaui, can not be
                    forgotten.
            Through her friend, Harriet Hosmer, the sculptress, she established wonderful
                    contacts with people of world renown. She enjoyed a tete-a-téte with Sir Frederick Leighton in his studio. She
                    had a personal friendship with Madam Albani from whom she received a program of
                    a musicale, given by the prima donna before the Queen at Balmoral Castle.
                    Accompanying the program was a friendly, little personal note, thanking Miss
                    Krout for some Scotch heather she had sent the singer.
            An autographed photo of Olga Nethersole, also a personal friend, decorates the
                    wall of her boudoir. Near by is a picture of George Eliot, given to Miss Krout
                    by Frances E. Willard. A likeness of her cousin George Brown, Rear Admiral in
                    command of our Asiatic fleet and ranking admiral of our navy at the time of his
                    retirement, bears a resemblance to the poet, Browning.
            
            A glimpse of Ibsen in his accustomed window in his favorite restaurant in
                    Christiana, must be recorded as one of her foreign experiences.
            The Misses Krout come of both scholarly and soldierly line. Their grandfather,
                    Dr. Ryland Brown, professor of natural science at 
                        Butler
                     college, wrote a text-book on physiology, used in the schools of
                    the U. S. His father was a Revolutionary soldier who served with 
                        Washington
                     and married Mary Ball, niece of the wife of 
                        Augustus
                    
                    
                        Washington
                    , brother of George. The father of these ladies was a graduate of 
                        Wabash
                     and some of his writings in Greek, done at an advanced age,
                    testifies the born scholar. He collected a rare old library and probably a still
                    rarer lot of old English prints and engravings which have a frieze-like
                    arrangement around the book encircled walls. They are likenesses of the
                    world's heroes along different lines: Livingston, Garibaldi, Cardigan,
                    leader of the famous "Six Hundred"; Duke of 
                        Cambridge
                    , once seen by Miss Krout; our own 
                  Washington, Franklin
               , 
                        Webster
                     and 
                        Clay
                    . The latter was a friend of the Krout family. A large engraving of 
                        Lincoln
                     from a photograph by the government photographer during the Civil
                    War, has the distinction of having been borrowed for the services held in honor
                    of the martyred president at 
                        Crawfordsville
                    .
            There are volumes in the library to tempt even an honest bibliophile into a
                    hardened kleptomaniac, for instance a copy of Dante's Inferno with
                    Flaxman's illustrations; a rare old edition of Homer of 1790, brought
                    by Miss Krout from 
                  Oxford,
                            England
               .
            A bas relief of 
                        Lincoln
                     in plaster, given by the sculptress, Vinnie Ream, to Mrs. Lew
                    Wallace and, in turn, presented by her to Miss Caroline Krout, has associations
                    of interest.
            A powder horn, used by a relative at Lundy Lane and some brass candle snuffers
                    engage attention.
            Miss Caroline is equally as interesting as her sister but in a different way. Her
                    experiences have been along other lines. There is a humorous, almost mischievous
                    glint in her kindly eyes which reflect a very human attitude towards life, The
                    two sisters remind one, in personality of what we read of Alice and Phoebe Cary.
            
            On 
                        Grant
                     Avenue, opposite the clock tower of the 
                        Wabash
                     college campus, is the home of Dr. E. H. Cowan. The house, itself,
                    is modern (save the wide, comfortable veranda and the stair case transplanted
                    from a sixteen room residence, built by Dr. Cowan's father in 1865, on
                    the present site of the Big Four R. R. Station) yet it has been planned to make
                    a harmonious setting for the interesting old furniture of which it is full. Much
                    of it which was brought from Mrs. Cowan's girlhood home in 
                        Kentucky
                    , has been handed down through several generations. Now, since her
                    recent death it is all inexpressibly more precious to her only surviving child,
                    Miss Elizabeth.
            Miss Cowan has the honor of being a descendant, on both sides of the family, from
                    ancestors identified with the early history of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . Her grandmother's aunt, a southern lady, while on a visit
                    to 
                        Vincennes
                    , met Major Whitlock whom she afterwards married. In 1822 he founded 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . At the same time her father's grandfather, John Cowan,
                    entered land a little to the southwest of the same city. As might be expected,
                    the house is filled with heirlooms from the union of two of the oldest families
                    in the county.
            Deep, sleepy hollow chairs whose backs are oval instead of square like those of
                    the present day; tables, drop leaf, pedestal, round and square, inlaid, marble
                    topped and what you will; gilt framed mirrors, picturesque old china of three
                    generations back, etc., each with an individual history, delight and confuse the
                    antiquary with an "embarrassment of riches".
            In the reception room is a clock, made by S. Hoadley in 
                  Plymouth, Mass.
               , before the time of the Seth Thomas; an old
                    settee with swan carved arms, brought from 
                        New Jersey
                     to 
                        Kentucky
                    , in 1821, by a great grandfather of Miss Cowan. Over its
                    aristocratic old back is one of those priceless, old coverlids.
            Major Whitlock's cane, cut from a hickory on the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Battle Ground, hangs in a prominent place on the wall, near his
                    portrait. On a curious old escritoire are brass snuffers and a whale oil lamp
                    that makes us think of our envied old friend, Aladdin. Family portraits and rare
                    old steel engravings abound and there is an exquisite miniature on ivory of a
                         great grandsire. An ormulu clock with
                    especially fine lines, bridges the time between the pioneer and the present.
            The dining room is especially delightful with its mahogany sideboard and chairs
                    with horse-hair cushions. In a corner cupboard are the wedding dishes of a
                    great-grandmother whose bridal dates back to 1813. A pair of cut glass pitchers,
                    brought to 
                        Jefferson County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , from 
                        Lancaster County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in 1790, make the span of human life look small and a soup tureen
                    of that alluring old, grandmothery looking blue china completely outvies the
                    pitchers in seniority. We can imagine them exchanging confidences about their
                    long, rich and varied experiences.
            The several upper chambers are replete with interest. There are old four-posters
                    in mahogany and cherry, glass-knobbed old dressing-cases of the time of George
                    Washington; brass fenders and andirons; an Italian chair or two; a lovely carved
                    dower chest that suggests Samuel Rogers' "Ginevra" of
                    old McGuffey fame and crowning all a BANDBOX! Shades of our ancestors! What a
                    key to the past a bandbox furnishes to the imagination! The word opens a vision
                    of old attics, rich with years of accumulation and the faint rich perfume of
                    yesterday, like the memory of those who have left so far behind these
                    once-valued laces, silks and velvets, overpowers and attunes us with the
                    ancestors, generations removed, who wotted not of us as of individuals but
                    simply as a vague and possible posterity.
            We seem to have slipped back a century or so in visiting this interesting home.
                    Dr. Cowan, scholarly, retired physician, and his daughter, a prominent business
                    woman, connected with all social affairs of importance in her native city, are
                    very hospitable and unselfish with their home.
            These are but a few of the historic homes of Crawfords-ville and the families of
                    importance.
         
         
         
            Indiana Newspapers 1829–1860
            By JAMES HANNAN BUTLER, A.M., 
                        Wisconsin
                    
            
            THE NEWSPAPER
                    AND
                    THE FRONTIER
            
            In order to explain the progress of the establishment of newspapers in Indiana,
                    mention should first be made of the size of the towns in which they were
                    published and the constantly increasing population of the state. The setting for
                    a story of newspapers in the commonwealth would be incomplete without this.
            In the westward advance of the American frontier following the Revolutionary war,
                    Southern Indiana was reached soon after settlements were made in 
                        Ohio
                    . The early settlements were along the rivers. Along the
                        Ohio river were the promising towns of
                            
                  Lawrenceburg,
                            Vevay, Madison, Jeffersonville
               , 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Evansville
                    . On the Whitewater river were 
                        Connersville
                     and 
                        Brookville
                    . On the 
                        Wabash
                     was old 
                        Vincennes
                    , which had been settled by the French much earlier, and 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Somewhat later 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Logansport
                     were founded on the upper Wabash river .
                    Comparatively early settlements, not on important rivers were 
                        Richmond
                    , 
                        Corydon
                    , the first capital of Indiana, located twenty miles from the
                        Ohio river in 
                        Harrison county
                    ; and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the centrally located capital of the future.
            The progress of a frontier line of eighteen inhabitants to the square mile,
                    across the state of Indiana from 1830 to 1860 tells an interesting story.1
            
            By the year 1830 it had pushed into the state in two places. The lower extension
                    was the larger of the two. It entered the state of Indiana near 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , ran parallel to the Ohio river as far as 
                        Washington County
                    , where it turned sharply north, then west, then north, and west
                    again to the western edge of 
                        Lawrence county
                    . Here is dropped almost directly 
                  
                     1 All information concerning this frontier line
                            was gained from: Statistical Atlas of the 
                                    United States
                                 based on the results of the Ninth Census of
                        1870.
               
                     south to the Ohio
                    river. Territory inside this line of eighteen to the square mile and
                    which was therefore more thickly populated included the counties of 
                        Ohio
                    , 
                        Switzerland
                    , 
                        Jefferson
                    , 
                        Clark
                    , 
                        Floyd
                    , 
                        Harrison
                    , 
                        Washington
                    , 
                        Orange
                    , and parts of 
                        Scott
                    , 
                        Lawrence
                    , and 
                        Crawford
                    . The upper section encompassed by this frontier line included the
                    counties of 
                  Wayne, Fayette, Union
               , and 
                        Franklin
                    , in rectangular form with 
                        Rush county
                     making an almost square extension on the west side.
            In the next ten years the influx of population was rapid. By 1840 the line, with
                    the exceptions noted below, had reached approximately the northern boundaries of
                    the following counties: 
                        Randolph
                    , 
                        Delaware
                    , 
                        Madison
                    , 
                        Tipton
                    ,2
                    
                        Clinton
                    , 
                        Carroll
                    , 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , 
                        Fountain
                     and 
                        Vermillion
                    . Two sections south of this line were not included: one of these
                    included the hilly counties of Jackson and 
                        Bartholomew
                     and the other was a larger triangular strip which had the three
                    counties of 
                  Perry, Spencer
               , and 
                        Warrick
                    , as a base and extended in a northward direction with the northern
                    boundary of 
                        Clay county
                     forming a blunt apex.
            By 1850 the line had advanced across the state. There were still three sections
                    of the state, however, where the population had not reached an average of
                    eighteen to the square mile. One part included the rather barren counties of 
                        Martin
                     and 
                        Dubois
                     in the southwestern part of the state. Another included the
                    counties of 
                  Adams, Wells, Blackford,
                            Huntington
               , 
                        Whiteley
                     and 
                        Noble
                    . The third included these counties: 
                  Lake, Porter, Starke
               ,
                    parts of 
                  Marshall, Fulton
                and 
                  White; Benton,
                            Warren
               , 
                        Newton
                    , 
                        Jasper
                    , and 
                        Pulaski
                    .
            In 1860 all territory in the state had received enough inhabitants to make its
                    average eighteen or more to the square mile except an irregular strip in the
                    northwestern part of the state. This strip contained practically all of the
                    counties of 
                  Benton, Jasper
               , 
                        Newton
                    , 
                  White, Pulaski, Starke
               , and part of 
                        Lake county
                    .
            While this expansion was taking place the newspapers were keeping pace. When
                    settlements were sparsely populated and far apart newspapers were not numerous.
                    When the towns grew in size two and in some cases three or more papers were
                    supported.
            
               
                  2 The line cut across the middle part of 
                            Tipton county
                        .
            
            
            Energetic editors appeared soon after a community reached any appreciable size.
                    For this reason, a newspaper map showing counties having a newspaper or having
                    had one, at a given date is similar to a map showing what counties the frontier
                    line overran at that date. In a few instances newspapers were established in
                    thriving towns some time before the frontier line of eighteen to the square mile
                    reached the county. Examples of this are the settlements at
                            
                  New Harmony, Vincennes, Terre
                        Haute, Indianapolis,
                            Lafayette
               , and 
                        Logansport
                    , all of which had weekly papers before 1830, at a time when the
                    frontier line was far to the south and east. This situation might have been
                    expected because a newspaper depended chiefly on a town for its support and at
                    least not upon a whole county. Then, many of the towns were fairly, large long
                    before the county in which they were situated became thickly populated.
            Several newspapers had been established in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     before one made its appearance in Indiana.
            The honor of printing the first newspaper in Indiana belongs beyond a doubt to
                    Elihu Stout, who on July 4, 1804, put out the first issue of the Indiana Gazette at 
                        Vincennes
                    .5 About a year and a half later the plant was
                    destroyed by fire. On July 4, 1807, Editor Stout began issuing the Western Sun and General Advertiser, after having returned to 
                        Frankfort
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , to get the type and press.6
            
            The next paper to be published in Indiana, was the Western
                    Eagle, which was founded at 
                        Madison
                     in 1813, by Seth M. Leavenworth and William Hendricks, who had
                    brought their press with them from 
                        Cincinnati
                    . After a short sojourn the Eagle was moved to 
                        Lexington
                    , Indiana, and the Indiana Republican took its
                    place in 
                        Madison
                    . In 1815 John Scott, a roving printer, founded the Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph at 
                        Brookville
                     and about the same time an 
                        Ohio
                     printer, William C. Keen, one of the joint founders of 
                        Vevay
                    , established the Indiana Register at that
                        place.7
            
            Between the date of the admission of Indiana into the 
                        Union
                     in December, 1816, and the inauguration of Andrew 
                  
                     5
                     Historg of 
                                    Knox
                                 and Davies Counties, Indiana.
                  
                     6 Logan Esarey, "Early Indiana
                            Newspapers", in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Feb. 1, 1913.
                  
                     7 Logan Esarey, History of
                            Indiana, Vol. II, p. 1101.
               
                     Jackson in March, 1829, one or more papers
                    was established at the following towns: 
                  Salem, Vevay, Terre Haute, Greencastle, Brookville
               , 
                  New
                            Albany, Indianapolis,
                            Richmond
               , and 
                        Centerville
                    .8
            
            The establishment of a newspaper in a town as well as its success thereafter
                    depended upon the revenue that might be derived from two sources: job printing
                    and circulation to subscribers. Practically all of the early editors made pleas
                    for job printing. A notice printed by the Paladium at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     is typical of the kind of job work they offered to do. The notice
                    read as follows:
            
                    Blank Deeds, Mortgages, Summonses, Bills of Lading, and most other kinds for
                        sale at this office.9
               
                
            The fact that the early editor depended upon both circulation and job printing to
                    earn a living makes it difficult to say what circulation was necessary to
                    sustain a paper. In many cases an editor may have cast his lot with a town
                    because of the promise of job work to be done. County seat towns often lured
                    editors and held them because of the additional amount of job work and the
                    printing of the official notices and reports of the various county officials who
                    did business there.
            Statements giving the net paid circulation were seldom given by editors before
                    the Civil War. Occasionally if one was having unusual success he would tell how
                    his list of subscribers was growing. On July 29, 1840, The 
                            La Porte County
                        
                        
                            Whig
                         and 
                            Porter
                        , 
                            Lake
                         and 
                            Marshall Counties
                         Advertisers,10 in publishing a notice
                    that its furniture and fixtures were for sale said they had "cost
                    $1,500 in 
                        New York
                     about three years ago" and said "the subscription
                    list is about five hundred and might easily be increased to double that
                        number."11 The 
                  
                            Madison
                         Daily Courier, on May 5, 1849, said:
            
                    When we issued our first number we had not even one subscriber; now before
                        the first week has ended, we have over four hundred.
                
            
               
                  8 Logan Esarey. History of Indiana,
                        Vol II. pp. 1102–1107; histories of Indiana counties which
                        include those towns.
               
                  9
                  Indiana Palladium, Mar. 21, 1835,
                        Lawrenceburgh.
               
                  10 This name was later shortened to 
                     
                                La Porte
                             Whig for obvious reasons.
               
                  11
                  
                            Jasper
                         Packard, History of 
                                La Porte County
                            , Indiana, and its Townships, Towns and Cities.
            
            
            In speaking on the suspension of the 
                        Portland
                    
                    Journal in the winter of 1856–1857 one publisher
                    said, "its circulation at that time was about three hundred
                        copies."12 It is said that for the Spy at 
                        Nashville
                     in 1854, the first newspaper in 
                        Brown County
                    , "a subscription list of about three hundred was
                        secured."13 Immediately after the 
                  
                            Noble County
                         Journal was started in 1859, "a circulation of
                    about five hundred was secured but was afterward about doubled."14 One Indiana historian has summarized the circulation of
                    the town and city papers of Indiana as follows:
            
                    Few of the papers of Indiana before the war had a circulation of 1,000. The
                        ordinary county seat paper of the forties had from 200 to 500 subscribers.
                        The latter number included those that circulated outside the county. The 
                            Madison
                        , 
                     New Albany,
                                Terre Haute, Lafayette
                  .
                                
                     South Bend,
                                Fort Wayne
                  , and
                        perhaps a few other papers had from 500 to 700 subscribers. The weekly Sentinel and Journal had over 1,000 but
                        the daily editions were less than 500.15
               
                
            The valuation of newspaper and printing establishments varied greatly. According
                    to the reports of the Sixth Census16 sixty-five printing
                    offices in Indiana in 1840 were valued at $58,505, or an average of
                    approximately $900 per plant. In sixty-nine printing offices, two
                    hundred and eleven men were employed. Counties reporting the largest number of
                    men engaged in printing, binding, and publishing were 
                        Marion
                    , with eighteen; 
                        Floyd
                    , with sixteen; 
                        Wayne
                    , with fourteen; 
                        Vigo
                    , with twelve; and 
                  Jefferson, La
                    Porte
                and 
                        Tippecanoe
                     with eleven. All other counties had less than ten men and as few as
                    one engaged in the industry. This report gives the most complete information
                    available on the amount of capital which the editor had invested in his
                        plant.17 Earlier, of course, the plants were smaller,
                    the average number of men 
                  
                     12
                     Biographical and Historical Record
                                of 
                                    Jay
                                 and 
                                    Blackford
                                 Counties, Indiana, 912.
                  
                     13
                     Counties of 
                                    Morgan
                                , Monrac, and 
                                    Brown
                                , Indiana, Historical and Biographical, 696.
                  
                     14
                     Counties of La Grange and 
                                    Noble
                                , Indiana, Historical and Biographical. 74.
                  
                     15 Logan Esarey. "History of the Press in
                            Indiana", in 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Star, Sept. 9, 1915.
                  
                     16
                     Compendium of the Enumeration of
                                Inhabitants of the 
                                    United States
                                …. Sixth Census, 392.
                  
                     17 Even this report lists printing officers,
                            newspaper plants, and binderies without discrimination.
               
                     employed less, and the amount of capital
                    invested less. Later when steam power was introduced and telegraph service
                    furnished, the cost of both equipment and upkeep was greater.
            What information is available concerning the number of newspapers in Indiana
                    shows a steady increase after 1836. In 1833 a Gazeteer was
                    published by Douglass and Maguire of the Indiana Journal at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which contained a table of Indiana newspapers, showing by whom
                    they were published and at what place.18 This book lists a
                    total of twenty-nine papers in the state in the year 1833. In the year 1835 the
                        American Almanac listed the name and place of publication
                    of thirty-one newspapers and stated that, "In addition to the above,
                    seven other papers are printed in the state making in all
                        thirty-eight."19 In the Sixth Census (1840)
                    reports, Indiana is credited with sixty-nine weeklies and four semi-weeklies and
                    tri-weeklies, a total of seventy-three.20 According to the
                    census reports of 1850 there were eighty-four political papers in the state
                    besides those classed as literary, miscellaneous, religious and scientific.21 In the next decade there was a considerable increase in
                    the number of publications. In 1860 there were one hundred and seventy-two
                    political papers of which thirteen were issued daily, five bi-weekly, and one
                    hundred fifty-four weekly.22 This large increase in the
                    number of political papers has been attributed to the "extraordinary
                    political agitation" of the decade.23
            
            These statistics, however, give only the bare facts and although each decade
                    showed an increase in the number of papers over the preceding one, such progress
                    was not made without heroic efforts on the part of some editors to keep their
                    papers alive.
            Besides the hardships which the pioneer editors had to endure, some other
                    features of the newspaper industry in the 
                  
                     18 John Douglass and Douglas Maguire, The Indiana Gazeteer or Topographical Dictionary, 200.
                  
                     19
                            The American Almanaca: and Repository of Useful Knowledge
                                for the year 1836, 253.
                  
                     20
                            Compendium of the Enumeration of the Inhabitants of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     …. Sixth Census, 292.
                  
                     21 J. D. B. De Bow. The Seventh
                                Census of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 1850, Table XLIX, p. LXV.
                  
                     22
                            Statistics of the 
                                    United States
                                 Census in 1860, Eighth Census, 321.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid, 320.
               
                     state were: the heavy mortality of the
                    papers; the bitter rivalry of the editors; the rates they charged for
                    advertising and subscriptions; and the general contents of the papers. These
                    topics will be discussed in separate sections.
            HARDSHIPS
                    OF
                    THE EARLY EDITORS
            
            The pioneer editor in Indiana labored under difficulties that seem almost beyond
                    belief in this day of rapid transportation, quick methods of communication, and
                    improved machinery of all kinds. Yet he was not alone in suffering hardships,
                    for the merchant, the teacher, the farmer and the preacher were laboring under
                    the same harsh conditions of pioneer life.
            No more vivid picture of pioneer journalism can be given, however, than the story
                    of some of the adversities with which the early editor had to contend.
            One of the curses of early journalism in Indiana was a shortage of paper at
                    publishing time. Speculation as to why the pioneer editor was so often caught in
                    this predicament leads to three possible reasons. In the first place many of
                    them barely eked out an existence from week to week and probably seldom had
                    enough "ready cash" to buy an appreciable supply in advance.
                    Then, the uncertainties of their organs as business ventures made the laying in
                    of a large supply of paper inadvisable. When both advertisers and printers were
                    slow in settling their accounts, as will be shown below, it was only natural
                    that the editors were careful about addition investments. A third and most
                    likely cause for frequent apologies about a lack of paper, rested in the
                    uncertainties and difficulties of transportation. This was especially true of
                    transportation in the winter and spring months when the streams were frozen or
                    swollen and the roads impassable.
            The problems of Editor Stout at 
                        Vincennes
                     may be cited as typical examples of what many editor had to contend
                    with until the middle thirties. In the spring of 1829 he gave this notice to his
                    readers:
            
                    Want of paper compels me to furnish my readers with but half a sheet. I
                        expect a supply before another publication day.1
               
                
            
               
                  1
                        Western Sun, May 9, 1829.
            
            
            The delay apparently was longer than he had at first anticipated, however, and he
                    was soon forced to make another apology. His appeal to his readers for patience
                    was worded as follows:
            
                    My supply of paper has not yet arrived. I shall endeavor to make such
                        arrangements as will prevent a similar misfortune for I do not look upon the
                        fact of being out of paper as a fault, having taken the needful and usual
                        steps to procure it, but as a misfortune.2
               
                
            As a result of this shortage the two succeeding issues, May 23 and May 30, 1829,
                    were about three-fifths their regular size. Instead of the usual four columns,
                    there were only three. The usual four pages were printed.
            A lack of paper of the proper size bothered this editor as late as 1834. He was
                    compelled to reduce the Sun to a five-column sheet for the
                    issues of October 4, October 11, and October 18, 1834. As late as the issue of
                    July 5, of that year, he had used paper of this size. But after this day he had
                    put out a six column paper. His announcement to his readers was worded as
                    follows:
            
                    I am compelled to present the Sun to its numerous patrons
                        today on a diminished sheet. Paper of the proper size has been expected for
                        several days but has not yet arrived. I shall endeavor to prevent a similar
                        mishap again happening.3
               
                
            About the same time the editor of the Indiana Republican at 
                        Madison
                     was having similar troubles and for one issue was obliged to put
                    out a paper of five columns in place of the customary six columns. The
                    editor's statement to his patrons is self explanatory. He said:
            
                    We are under the necessity of apologizing to our patrons this week on account
                        of the size of our paper. We sent to 
                            Louisville
                         for Imperial paper, but received superroyal,
                        plenty of which we could have had at home; but we can assure our readers
                        that as soon as we have an opportunity of sending to 
                            Cincinnati
                         or 
                            Louisville
                         again, our paper shall resume its former size.4
               
                
            Another pioneer in the newspaper field, John Scott at 
                        Logansport
                    , suffered greatly on account of his remoteness from 
                  
                     2
                     Ibid., May 16, 1829.
                  
                     3
                            Western Sun, October 4, 1834.
                  
                     4
                     Indiana Republican, October 7,
                            1830. 
                                Madison
                            .
               
                     a paper mill. His hardships have been
                    summarized for the first two years as follows:
            
                    It took Editor Scott about two years to complete the first volume, 52
                        numbers, of the Pottawatomie and 
                                Miami
                             Times, of 
                            Logansport
                        , 1829–31, due to the irregularity of the boats on
                        the 
                            Wabash
                        .5
               
                
            Conditions did not seem to improve for this Wabash valley
                    editor because in 1833 he had numerous complaints to make. He did not put out an
                    issue from December 29, 1832, until February 14, 1833, giving two reasons for
                    the suspension as follows:
            
                    It is due to our readers to state that the failure in the publication of this
                        paper, for some weeks past, was owing to the absence of the Editor, and a
                        disappointment in not receiving a supply of paper as soon as was
                            expected.6
               
                
            A short time later this notice appeared:
            
                    The person employed to bring us paper failed to do so, consequently we were
                        unable to publish last week and are compelled to issue but half a sheet this
                            week.7
               
                
            Another apology was forthcoming two months later when he allowed four weeks to
                    elapse between No. 52 of Vol. I and No. 1 of Vol. II.8
            
            Even as late as 1847, the energetic Henry Ward Beecher, who edited a monthly
                    agricultural journal at 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the years 1845, 1846, and 1847, was caught without paper. He
                    said the delay was on account of "not getting paper according to
                        contract"9 and said further:
            
                    We have now made such arrangements as will in the future avoid such vexatious
                        occurrences. This delay will throw the next number a little behind its
                        proper time, after which its issue will be regular.10
               
                
            Two instances may be cited of earnest, if eccentric and unusual, attempts to put
                    out pioneer papers. Some allowance can be made because in each case the paper
                    was the first in the community. The accounts that follow are self explanatory.
            
               
                  5 Logan Esarey, "History of the Press in
                        Indians," in the 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, Sept. 12, 1915.
               
                  6
                        
                     
                                Cass County
                             Times, Feb. 14, 1833, 
                            Logansport
                        .
               
                  7
                        Ibid., March 21, 1833.
               
                  8 See Ibid., May 9, 1833.
               
                  9
                        Western Farmer and Gardener, April, 1847, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
               
                  10
                        Ibid., April, 1847.
            
            
            
                    The first paper in Rushville, The Dog-Fennel Gazette (!),
                        published by one Wickham, in 1832, seems, from the unique name bestowed upon
                        it, to have been consciously grotesque. What the eccentric father of it used
                        as a bed for his press we are not told, but it is affirmed that for his
                        pressing power he utilized a heavy pole, one end of which was attached to a
                        tree. Placing the form under the pole near the tree, so as to get a good
                        leverage, he would squeeze off his impressions. The sheets were distributed
                        printed on one side, and his patrons, after reading, would return the paper
                        to be printed on the other side for another issue.11
               
                
            The other account follows: 
                        The first newspaper published in 
                                Morgan County
                             was established at 
                                Martinsville
                            , early in the forties, by James Richards. The sheet was a
                            small folio, was printed often upon paper obtained from the stores in
                            town, and upon a small wooden press.12
                  
                    
                
            In view of the numerous suspensions and the number of issues missed by these
                    early Indiana editors it is not surprising that the eastern metropolitan
                    journals, with their better facilities and equipment, looked on from a distance
                    and criticized. Typical of what many of them must have thought is the comment of
                    the editor of the 
                  
                            Boston
                         Morning Post, whose article was printed in an Indiana
                    paper as an exchange. The eastern man said: 
                        The Western Editors must have very good natured subscribers, for they
                            make nothing of missing a publication day if it is not perfectly
                            convenient to get out a paper. If they have a large amount of job work
                            on hand they let the paper go for a fortnight, if the editor's
                            cow gets lost in the woods he leaves his paper and hunts her up, and his
                            subscribers don't grumble a word at his independence. The plan
                            works better than it would here—for even in this goodly city,
                            an omission like that and for such a reason, would cost an editor half
                            his subscription list.13
                  
                    
                
            Next to the inability to secure paper for printing probably the most serious blow
                    to the pioneer editor was the failure to receive mail. Before the arrival of the
                    telegraph the very existence of the newspaper depended upon the mails. Local
                    news was not considered important in the thirties and forties but an 
                  
                     11 George S. Cottman, "The Early
                            Newspaper of Indiana", in Indiana Magazine of History,
                            II (1906), p. 115. Cottman does not cite any authority for this
                            statement.
                  
                     12
                            Counties of 
                           Morgan, Monroe
                        , and 
                                    Brown
                                , Indiana. Historical and Biographical,
                            33–34.
                  
                     13
                     The 
                                    Boston
                                 Morning Post quoted in the Indiana
                                Palladium, July 18, 1835. Lawrenceburgh.
               
                     editor considered himself unfortunate
                    indeed if he could report nothing of interest concerning the state and national
                    governments. Along with the news from 
                        Washington
                    , came the eastern papers, another invaluable source of supply for
                    the small town editor. From these eastern papers was clipped the report of
                    happenings in the larger cities and the latest news from Europe and other parts
                    of the world. Frank notices like the following were common until good roads were
                    built and faster, surer, transportation insured: 
                        The last mail papers are particularly barren of news of any
                                importance.14
                  
                    
                
            A Logansport editor made this honest admission: 
                        In consequence of a failure of the mail, we have not been favored with
                            our regular exchange papers, consequently we have nothing of any late
                            importance from 
                                Washington
                            .15
                  
                    
                
            The same editor had previously decided to change the publication date of his
                    organ from Saturday to Thursday, for, he said, "it will suit the
                    arrival and departure of the mails."16 A
                    Lawrenceburgh editor a few months later showed his dependence on the mails by
                    two short paragraphs. The first read:
            
                    No letters or papers by the last 
                            Indianapolis
                         mail. We understand, however, by travellers, that the bank bill
                        is pending.17
               
                
            The other continued: 
                        Owing to the swollen state of the streams, we have not received our usual
                            supply of Eastern news the present week.18
                  
                    
                
            The postmaster's notice of the arrival and departure of mails to and
                    from the 
                        Indianapolis
                     office in 1829 shows how infrequently the capital city received
                    deliveries. This notice, which appeared in the Indiana Journal
                    for January 3, 1829, and subsequent issues, showed one arrival from and one
                    departure every week to each of the following towns: 
                  Madison, Princeton, Terre
                    Haute
                and 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , 
                        Winchester
                    , 
                        Brookville
                     and Lawrenceburgh, Indiana, besides an Eastern 
                  
                     14
                     Western Sun, October 11, 1834.
                  
                     15
                     
                        
                                    Cass County
                                 Times, March 7, 1833.
                  
                     16
                     Ibid., February 14, 1833.
                  
                     17
                     Indiana Palladium, January 18,
                            1834.
                  
                     18
                     Ibid., January 18,
                        1834.
               
                     mail via 
                        Dayton
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , and one to 
                  Elizabethtown, Ky.
               , via 
                        Bedford
                    , Indiana. 
                        Ohio
                     and Wabash river towns received some
                    additional news, especially from 
                        New Orleans
                    , but other inland towns did not even have the mail service that
                    supplied 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Along with a shortage of paper and the slowness and irregularity of the mails the
                    pioneer editor had to contend with labor troubles. Three and four line notices
                    begging for apprentices and journeymen printers were common in the files of the
                    newspapers during the thirties. The Indiana Democrat, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , on October 16, 1830, appealed for 
                        One or two boys from 15 to 17 years of age, who could read and Write
                     and said that "Boys from the country would be
                    preferred." The Indiana Republican, at 
                        Madison
                    , had on September 23, 1830, made a similar request. On February 7,
                    1829, the editor of the Western Sun in a notice "To
                    Journeymen Printers" promised that 
                        An industrious good workman willing to engage for moderate wages may have
                            a permanent situation at the Western Sun office by
                            making speedy application.
                    
                
            In 1831 the same thing had to be done over again. The wording of this latter
                    notice leads one to the conclusion that the editor may have previously had
                    trouble with an assistant of alcoholic habits. The notice read: 
                        A good workman of sober and industrious habits will meet with constant
                            employment by applying at the Western Sun office.
                    
                
            The appeal was printed on August 20, 1831, and for five consecutive weeks
                    thereafter.
            By 1837 the whole system of hiring apprentices in Indiana had reached such a
                    condition of affairs that it was taken up by an editorial convention held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in that year. Three of the resolutions passed by that body were
                    worded in such a manner as to need no further explanation. They are in part as
                    follows: 
                        
                     Resolved, That as the practice on the part of
                            apprentices of going from office to office, without passing through a
                            regular course of apprenticeship and instruction is calculated to work
                            not only injustice and injury  to
                            the employer but also to throw upon the community a class of incompetent
                            and ignorant workmen, therefore, it should be regarded as a violation of
                            editorial duty for one editor or publisher to employ apprentices whether
                            in or otherwise from the office of another without the approbation of
                            the former.
                        
                     Resolved, That any editor or publisher who shall seduce
                            or entice either apprentice or journeyman from the employ of another, or
                            shall employ such as have left the service of their employer in
                            violation of good faith, knowing the facts of the case shall be held
                            guilty of a breach of professional duty and honor …
                        
                     Resolved, That it be recommended to the editors and
                            publishers of Indiana to employ no habitually intemperate or otherwise
                            notoriously immoral workmen.19
                  
                    
                
            Whether or not the fact that the editors of the state went on record as being
                    opposed to such practices enumerated above led to their discontinuance is not
                    known.
            But the heart of the editor was too stout to break down on account of these
                    physical obstacles. One thing that urged him on to accomplish more things was
                    the competition and the challenges of other editors.
            THE HEAVY MORTALITY
                    IN PIONEER JOURNALISM
            
            One of the striking features of the history of journalism in Indiana from 1829 to
                    1850 is the exceedingly high death rate of the newspapers. So far as is known no
                    estimate has been made of the ratio of failures to the number of enterprises
                    launched yet it must be very high when compared with other business
                    establishments. Two separate lines of investigation lead to this conclusion: one
                    is the use of county histories and the other is the examination of the existing
                    files of the papers of the state.
            Almost all of the county histories give some space to the treatment of early
                    newspapers and the work of the pioner editors. In nearly every history the story
                    is the same, that after a short run the paper was obliged to suspend
                    publication. A history of 
                        Jackson county
                     written in 1886 has the following to say about the journals of that
                    county:
            
               
                  19
                        Logansport Canal Telegraph, June 24, 1837.
            
            
            
                    Not a few of the number have met with sudden deaths, and all of them have
                        experienced the fiery trials and vicissitudes which have ever characterized
                        the profession.1
               
                
            A history of 
                        Kosciusko county
                     records the demise of the 
                  
                            Kosciusko
                         Republican in these words:
            
                    Rogers conducted the paper by issuing two or three weeks in succession,
                        getting out a half sheet now and then, and often missing a week until
                        … the suspension of the Republican
                            altogether.2
               
                
            Another writer summarized his views of the pioneer papers in this humorous but
                    brief manner:
            
                    The early history of newspaper enterprises in small towns is usually a record
                        of lives as brief as those allotted to the angels of Rabbi Jehosha:
                    
                        Whose only office is to cry Hosanna once, and then to die.3
                  
                    
                
            One editor, after a run of a little more than a year, said when he was forced to
                    suspend: 
                        Our brightest hopes have been canceled by a full realization of
                            everything hoped for.4
                  
                    
                
            The statements made in the first issue of many an early newspaper leads one to
                    the conclusion that the editor expected his paper to be an exception to the
                    general rule and become a financial success. The trials of the Tri-Weekly 
                            New Albany
                         Democrat is a case in point. On July 1, 1847, the first
                    issue was published. The editor said his chances for success were good and that
                    he had high hopes of being able to put out a good, successful, paper. His hopes
                    were too high, however, for on November 25, 1847, after publishing five months,
                    he gave up the enterprise. Fortunately he could fall back on the Weekly Democrat and make a living.
            Another indication that many of the Indiana papers in the 1830's at
                    least, were not proving financially successful may be seen in the frequent
                    changes in partnership. If an editor was making much money there would be no
                    incentive for him either to sell out or to take a partner into the business with
                    whom he would have to share profits. A good example of how 
                  
                     1
                     History of 
                                    Jackson County
                                
                     , Indians, 515.
                  
                     2
                            Biographical and Historical Record of 
                                    Kosciusko County
                                , Indiana, 666–667.
                  
                     3
                     History of 
                                    Pike
                                 and 
                                    Dubois
                                 Counties, Indiana, 349.
                  
                     4
                     Counties of 
                                    White
                                 and 
                                    Pulaski
                                , Indiana, Historical and Biographical (chicago,
                            1883), 100.
               
                     frequent some of these changes really were,
                    may be seen by examining the files of the 
                  
                            Cass County
                         Times of 
                        Logansport
                     from November, 1831, to December, 1833. From November 9, 1831, to
                    February 9, 1832, inclusive, John Scott was the sole editor; from August 18,
                    1832, through November 17, 1832, John Scott and Joseph Hall were in charge; from
                    August 18, 1832, through November 17, 1832, John Scott had a joint editorship
                    with P. J. Van Derveer; from November 24, 1832, through May 30, 1833, John Scott
                    was sole editor again; there was no issue between May 30 and July 11, 1833; from
                    July 11, 1833, through October 10 of the same year the editors were W. J. Burns
                    and J. B. Scott (not John Scott) and from October 17, 1833, through December 19,
                    1833, W. J. Burns was the sole editor. Thus it may be seen that there were five
                    men at the helm some time or another during the twenty-five months in question.
            Beginning in September, 1833, and continuing for two years, changes in the
                    management of the Indiana Palladium at 
                        Lawrenceburgh
                     are very similar to those in the 
                        Logansport
                     paper. The editors of the Indiana Palladium for
                    the period were as follows: From September 7, 1833, till July 12, 1834, D. V.
                    Culley; from July 19, 1834, till July 25, 1835, D. V. Culley and V. M. Cole;
                    from August l, 1835, till October 17, 1835, V. M. Cole and E. Curtis; from
                    October 24, 1835, till November 28, 1835, and beginning December 5, 1835, Milton
                    Gregg and William A. Cameron.
            The editors of Indiana newspapers realized in the middle 1830's, that
                    journalism in general was in an unhealthful condition. The editor of the 
                  
                            Wabash
                         Courier, at 
                        Terre Haute
                     in particular was alive to the situation. His views were being
                    reprinted by various papers over the state. The Sun at 
                        Vincennes
                     credited him with this statement: 
                        Within in a month no less than three newspapers printed in Indiana have
                            been discontinued—"yielded up the ghost"—though
                            not without a struggle. How many more will follow ere long, the sickly,
                            pale and battered exterior of some received at this office give awful
                            forebodings … the career of some has been 80 short, that, ere
                            we could greet them a more unpleasant duty was imposed.5
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  5
                  
                     
                                Wabash
                             Courier, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , quoted in Western Sun, January 31,
                    1835.
            
            
            The editor of the Courier thought that an editorial convention
                    might be able to solve the problem. This idea was seconded by the proprietor of
                    the Indiana Palludium who favored the proposition of holding a
                    convention of editors in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the spring of 1835 to devise "some proper panacea for
                    the debilitated condition of the press in general."6 The editorial convention was held early in May, 1835, but did not
                    furnish the panacea as hoped for. The Palladium editor said to
                    his patrons: 
                        We regret to say that the convention was not so generally attended as it
                                might or ought to have been,7
                  
                     and inferred that it accomplished little. The problems must have been
                    too big to have been solved by a two or three-day editorial convention.
            The frequent suspensions of Indiana papers in the antebellum period must have
                    been the result of a number of things. In the first place many of the editors
                    were not good managers. They knew how to manage the literary department of the
                    paper but were unable to take care of the finances. As a result unpaid
                    subscriptions were numerous as were also unpaid advertisements. In 1839, 1846
                    and even in the 1850's the editors were still pleading with debtors to
                    pay up.
            Some of these evils might be summarized as follows: Subscribers were constantly
                    changing their addresses without giving notice to the editors; in the excitement
                    of election times men would order a paper and then would receive it for three or
                    four years without settling; candidates would have their names announced before
                    conventions or elections and many of them, especially the defeated ones, would
                    neglect to pay their bills.8
            
            Another reason for frequent suspensions lay in the fact that many editors
                    overestimated their chances of success. Optimism was abundant in the personality
                    of the pioneer editor. In some instances one editor would follow another into a
                    community which had been unable to support a paper. But the incoming editor was
                    often undaunted by the fact that one or more of the preceding printers had
                    failed because of a 
                  
                     6
                            Indiana Palladium, Jan. 24, 1835. Lawrenceburgh.
                  
                     7
                     Ibid., Jan. 24, 1835.
                  
                     8 Logan Esarey, "History of the Press in
                            Indiana", in 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Star, May 2, 1915.
               
                     lack of patronage, and expected his own
                    personality and ability to make for complete success.
            In the periods of economic depression or "hard times" as they
                    were called, the troubles of the editors were greater than ever and the
                    mortality rate higher. In times of panic and when money conditions tightened,
                    the whole community was hard hit and new subscribers were fewer in number and
                    old subscribers were hard to collect from.
            The percentage of newspaper suspensions continued high through the
                    1840's and 1850's and up to the outbreak of the Civil War.
            PERSONAL
                    AND PARTISAN RIVALRY
                    OF
                    THE EDITORS
            
            One of the features of early journalism in Indiana was the bitterness with which
                    rival editors attacked each other. Battles of words were frequent and the
                    controversies often were long and drawn out. These disputes arose over various
                    subjects such as the size and quality of their papers, statements and
                    misstatements of facts, the appropriation of articles without giving proper
                    credit to the author and most frequently, perhaps, over partisan politics. These
                    squabbles were not confined to papers of any particular class or location but
                    were entered into with apparent relish by city and town editors and by
                    proprietors of daily, weekly, and monthly journals. Naturally some editors were
                    loath to enter personal controversies while others reveled in word battles. A
                    few examples will show how extensive the practice was in Indiana and that it
                    continued from the beginning of the Jackson period until the Civil War at least.
            The editor of an 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper, under the caption "The Creature's at his
                    Dirty Work Again", carried the following attack upon a downstate editor: 
                        We can not take room to say anything to the editor of the Political Clarion at 
                                Connersville
                            , but we will say to his readers that if they will read the
                            following sentence from that paper of the 5th inst. we will again prove
                            to them that no credit should be given to anything which may be said by
                            the silly cock-a-doodle who edits that sheet at the
                            bidding of a would be Congressman…. Now to prove that this
                            soft shelled sophomore is entirely ignorant of what transpires within
                            the limits of  the state in which he
                            lives, or that he entirely disregards truth in any
                            manner we need only to refer to the records….1
                  
                    
                
            About a year later the same paper carried an attack upon another paper, this time
                    the 
                        Greensburg
                    
                    Observer, in the following vein: 
                        The abuse of low-bred malevolence tends only to make its author more
                            infamous; and were it not that the poor cratur who
                            hawes over his "beads" through the mud battery of the
                            Greensburgh "Observer" has already sunk to the bottom
                            of the pit of licentiousness and personal degradation we would reply to
                            his wanton and weak remarks relative to our course on the rejection of
                            the nomination of Mr. Van Buren. We despise the heartless slanderer, and
                            therefore let Dowling drivel at us without notice, further than to pity
                            his impotent attempts to bring himself into notice by belieing us.
                            … However we promise him that if he will frame his remarks in
                            such a manner as to allow us legal redress for his libels and assure us
                            we can recover costs of prosecution against him, if he fails to sustain
                            himself on a plea of justification for his slanders, by showing a
                            sufficient amount of available property out of which to make costs.2
                  
                    
                
            A few weeks before Andrew Jackson took the reins of the government from the hands
                    of the second 
                        Adams
                     the Indiana Journal made a vigorous complaint
                    against the Indiana Republican at 
                        Madison
                     for alleged copying on the part of the latter without giving proper
                    credit. The concluding words of the attack are as follows: 
                        But when a series of Legislative proceedings interlarded with the
                            opinions and sentiments of members, and sometimes at considerable length
                            is copied from this paper, as has been the practice it is believed with
                            the one in question, it might not be amiss to give to
                            it, that credit which is due.3
                  
                    
                
            It was not long before the Indiana Republican was engaged in
                    another personal altercation but this time in the role of accuser instead of the
                    alleged offender. The following chastisement appeared in the columns of that
                    paper: 
                        Conductors of public journals who wish or expect to hold a respectable
                            standing with their "brethren of the type" or in
                            society generally, should treat even their opponents with civility and
                            decency, becoming gentlemen…. We are led to these remarks by
                            the managers of the 
                        
                           1
                                    Indiana Democrat, February 19, 1831, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    .
                        
                           2
                           Indiana Democrat, Feb.
                                    25, 1832.
                        
                           3
                           Indiana Journal, Jan.
                                    17, 1829, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    .
                     
                            
                            Madison Herald, Scarcely a paper has been issued from
                            that office since its establishment but what has something in it
                            insinuated or positive against us. Most of these writers too have been
                            concealed from the public by some fictitious signature. We could also
                            have published several articles in our paper over similar signatures
                            against the editors of the Herald. But we did not nor
                            would not consent to stoop to such an unprecedented course against our
                            opponents. We sought no controversy with them but have refrained as much
                            as circumstances would permit, from any remarks which would bring them
                            in collision with us. But it would not do. The same long
                                winded, hanging on talent, which has so often distinguished one
                            of the editors of that paper at the bar was still manifested.4
                  
                    
                
            The editors concluded their harangue by quoting from the Madison
                        Herald a reprinted editorial attack by the 
                        Salem
                    
                    Annotator in which the Indiana Republican
                    was criticised. Then, as the last lash, they, in retaliation, printed an article
                    they had been saving, an attack on the Madison Herald by the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    American.
            That the editors of Indiana were cognizant of intense partisanship on the part of
                    some of their members is evinced by resolutions passed at the editorial
                    convention held at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1837. At this date personal attacks were discouraged and part of
                    the sentiment of the assembled convention was expressed as follows: 
                        
                     Resolved, That while editors may honestly differ in
                            political matters discussion with regard to those matters of difference
                            should be conducted calmly and with the weapons of reason, that
                            sophistry and agitation should not be resorted to, and personal
                            altercations, disrespectful personal allusion, and epithets of a
                            reproaching nature should be avoided, being alike destructive of the
                            dignity and usefulness of the press and should never be used in
                            reference to any editor as long as he is an acknowledged member of the
                            editorial corps.5
                  
                    
                
            Resolutions of an editorial convention did not prove equal to the task, however,
                    and editorial combats continued in the forties. The appearance of a new Whig
                    editor, P. A. Hackleman of the Rushville Whig, called out some
                    stinging personal paragraphs by J. P. Chapman, editor of the Indiana Sentinel at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Chapman spoke of the new editor in the following bitter language:
            
               
                  4
                  Indiana Republican, July 22, 1840. 
                            Madison
                        .
               
                  5
                  
                     
                                Logansport
                             Canal Telegraph, June 24, 1837.
            
            
            
                    Hacklerman, the superlative fool who dubs himself editor of the Rushville Whig, is here in hope of getting himself elected a
                        prosecuting attorney. His anxious mother certainly "don't
                        know he's out" or she would have sent his dry nurse along.
                        Such metropolitan associates as the dingy Barnett will hardly be enough to
                        polish Hackleman sufficiently to make him a successful candidate for the
                        office he covets. The midwife who assisted him into this breathy world hung
                        him up by the mouth on a nail to dry; but it was found impossible to
                        evaporate the superabundant sap in his composition and he was taken down in
                        despair, but not before he had hung long enough to twist awry his most
                        prominent feature, giving him, in addition to his man monkeyism, the
                        hang-dog look for which he has ever been noted. The Legislature can
                        certainly never stultify itself so much as to make such a jackass a
                        prosecuting attorney.6
               
                
            Reference to the Journal on the morning previous will show that
                    Chapman's slap was a rejoinder to an article by Mr. Theodore Barnett,
                    the editor of a rival 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper. The attack which Chapman was so valiantly trying to match
                    was written up in part as follows: 
                        For two months past the celebrated George A. Chapman and his adjuncts at 
                                New Albany
                            , and those who use him there, have been in a dilemma
                            sufficient to draw tears from the heart of 
                                Gibraltar
                            . We drew about eight weeks ago, an imperfect outline of
                            this Chapman's moral profile, in which we sketched him as a low
                            sneerer at the gospel of God; as a filthy amalgamationist, whose
                            unveiled and unnatural debauches had caused him to be publicly cowhided
                            in the streets of an Eastern city; as a vagabond and leprous wanderer
                            among the factories of Liverpool, a prey to the ravages of a loathsome
                            and horrible malady; as a habitual and lecherous drunkard, alternating
                            between the gratification of the grossest lusts and intoxication with
                            the regularity of a pendulum, and as an escaped felon, who had
                            deliberately and willfully perpetrated the soul-damning crime of perjury
                            in the County of 
                                Vigo
                            , for which he was indicted, and from the penal effects of
                            which he escaped by a legal technicality. We sketched him as this wretch
                            whom the indignation of the moral community of 
                                Terre Haute
                            , without distinction of party, had vomited forth on the
                            town of 
                                Indianapolis
                            .7
                  
                    
                
            Further attempts to curb the intense personal controversies of the editors were
                    made when another editorial convention was held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1846. At this meeting D. R. Eckles, of the Indiana
                        Patriot at 
                        Greencastle
                     introduced the following preamble and resolutions which were
                    adopted.
            
               
                  6
                  Indiana Sentinel, Dec. 20, 1842, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               
                  7
                  Indiana Journal, Dec. 19, 1842, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            
                    
                  Whereas, It is the opinion of this convention that personal
                        controversy, abusive epithets and disreputable quarrels between editors in
                        their respective papers—whether they are of the same political
                        party or otherwise—tend to circumscribe the blessings of the
                        freedom of the press, and to detract from the personal respect and honor of
                        the profession, and of each of its members as men and politicians, and is
                        believed to constitute one of the reasons for the illiberal and scanty
                        patronage too often experienced in Indiana; therefore
                    
                  Resolved, That we recommend to all those concerned, in
                        conducting so highly responsible a business to themselves and to the whole
                        country, to abstain from the use of language personally offensive and
                        disreputable to each other; and that, as differ they must both as to men and
                        measures, they should differ as men and gentlemen.8
               
                
            Mr. Covington of the 
                  
                            Madison
                         Weekly Courier was quick to take to task his rival, the
                    editor of the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Banner, for not attending the convention. In the same issue
                    that carried an account of the proceedings of the convention, Editor Covington
                    printed the following tirade in the form of an editorial: 
                        We do not find the proceedings of the Convention recently held at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , in the last number of the Banner. As the
                            publication of the proceedings is to be considered as approving and subscribing to them by the paper so publishing
                            them, are we to understand that our neighbor does not approve of the
                            plan of doing away with personal controversy, abusive epithets, and
                            disreputable quarrels … or would the subscribing to the above
                            doctrines deprive our neighbor of his only weapons of warfare? We only
                            ask for information.9
                  
                    
                
            One week later the same editor said: 
                        When our neighbor wants to privately electioneer for subscribers, it
                            would be well enough for him not to tell that the type he uses is so
                            much smaller than ours. We give as many columns of bourgeois type in this paper as he does and in addition, we
                            give from two to four columns of long primer, which
                            can not be found in his paper. His comparing documents will not
                            do—as it is well known that he left out a large proportion of
                            the President's message until we reminded him of the fact. We
                            like an honorable opposition and wish we had it.10
                  
                    
                
            Another example of the personal rivalry that often existed between editors in the
                    same Indiana town, may be found in the Democrat of 
                        New Albany
                    . The proprietor of the Democrat published an
                    exchange from the Bulletin and his own answer in one issue.
                    The statement of the Bulletin read:
            
               
                  8
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             Weekly Courier, Jan. 24, 1846.
               
                  9
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             Weekly Courier, Jan. 24, 1846.
               
                  10 S. F. Covington in 
                     
                                Madison
                             Weekly Courier, Jan. 31, 1846.
            
            
            
                    The public have become so familiar with the constant flinging of filth by
                        such punts at candidates, that even respectable newspapers are hardly fully
                        relied upon during a partisan campaign.11
               
                
            The reply to the exchange was couched in the following language: 
                        Ha, Ha, Ha. Oh, hush! and we suppose that yours, neighbor, is one of
                            those "respectable papers that can't be relied
                            upon." We do not like to endorse the respectability of that
                            sheet but that it is not "relied upon," the whole
                            community knows…. Oh; re-lie-able, truthful sheet!12
                  
                    
                
            That some editors had a just cause for grievance there can be no doubt. Henry
                    Ward Beecher, who edited a monthly agricultural journal at 
                        Indianapolis
                     for almost three years beginning in February, 1845, complained
                    against some vicious practices of the time. Under the caption,
                    "Editorial Estrays"18 he summarized some
                    instances of plagiarism. He alleged that in some cases whole pages had been
                    extracted from his magazine without giving one credit to the original publisher.
                    In other instances he maintained that proper credit was given to the publisher
                    but the credit was placed obscurely in the middle of the article instead of at
                    the end. His third complaint was against the publishers who, he said,
                    appropriated articles and made them appear original by cutting off the
                    beginnings and ends and tacking on a few words of their own. He concludes his
                    article by this frank statement: 
                        In all sobriety, however, we would respectfully represent that we are not
                            sensitive on this subject because we desire the praise of the articles
                            but for a little more substantial reason. We desire to have our paper
                            known throughout the State; and in no way can it be advertised so well
                            as by the republication of this matter, with its name
                                attached.14
                  
                    
                
            Despite these criticisms and personal references there was a spirit of
                    cooperation among the members of the editorial profession. Instances are common
                    of the whole hearted welcoming of a beginning editor with his new paper.
            
               
                  11
                  Tri-Weekly 
                                New Albany
                             Democrat, July 10, 1847.
               
                  12
                  Tri-Weekly 
                                New Albany
                             Democrat, July 10, 1847.
               
                  13
                  Indiana Farmer and Gardener, July
                        12, 1845.
               
                  14
                  Indiana Farmer and Gardener, July
                        12, 1845, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            RATES: SUBSCRIPTION
                    AND ADVERTISING
            
            From the viewpoint of the journalist of the twentieth century one of the greatest
                    weaknesses of the pioneer editors was the laxness of business methods. Until the
                    state was well advanced in organization and settlement the editors were unable
                    to, or at least did not solve the problem of collecting for services rendered.
                    Advertisers were slow to pay for space. Readers were slower to pay for
                    subscriptions. The editor gave constant reminders to both. Collecting seemed to
                    be a continual worry.
            At the beginning of the period, in 1829, Elihu Stout was charging
                    $2.50 for fifty-two numbers of his Western Sun but
                    was willing to accept $2.00 as payment in full if tendered in
                    advance. Subscribers who received the paper by mail were asked to pay the
                    postage. Those who wished to discontinue taking the paper must first pay all
                        arrearages.1 John Douglass, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , made similar terms for the patrons of his twice-a-week Indiana Journal. He asked $2.00 per annum
                    "if paid in advance and $3.00 at the end of the year".2
            
            In 1839, the editor of the 
                        Connersville
                    
                    Watchman had three plans of payment: $2.00 if paid
                    in advance, $2.50 if paid in six months, and $3.00 if
                    delayed beyond the year.3
            
            For the ill-fated Tri-Weekly 
                            New Albany
                         Democrat, the terms were $2.00 for one year in
                    advance and $5.00 for three subscriptions.4
            
            Five years later Milton Gregg was putting out his daily Tribune
                    at 
                        New Albany
                    . He announced in Vol. I, No. 1, that the rates would be ten cents a
                    week by carrier or $5.00 a year by mail "payable quarterly
                    in advance".5 The subscription rates for the Daily Courier, at 
                        Madison
                    , in 1868 were the same but the weekly paper was only one dollar per
                        year.6
            
            The constant complaint made by the editors as late as the middle forties would
                    indicate that subscribers were slow in paying arrearages. Almost every
                    conceivable kind of appeal 
                  
                     1
                            Western Sun, Jan. 3, 1829.
                  
                     2
                     Indiana Journal, Jan. 3, 1829, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     3
                     Watchman, Dec. 6, 1839, 
                                Connersville
                            .
                  
                     4
                     Tri-Weekly 
                                    New Albany
                                 Democrat, July 1, 1847.
                  
                     5
                     
                        
                                    New Albany
                                 Daily Tribune, Mar. 22, 1852.
                  
                     6
                     Daily Evening Courier, Nov. 17,
                            1858, 
                                Madison
                            .
               
                     was made by the various editors of pioneer
                    journals, to secure all or even part of the money due them. The situation was
                    similar to that in 
                        Illinois
                     where subscribers "were appealed to in prose and verse,
                    they were cajoled, praised, lectured and denounced."7
            
            Until as late as 1838 money was scare in Indiana and the editors in many cases
                    were willing to accept produce in payment for subscriptions when they could not
                    get money. The files of the following newspapers revealed the fact that produce
                    would be acceptable: Western Sun, 
                        Vincennes
                    ; The Indiana Republican, 
                        Madison
                    ; Indiana Palladium, 
                        Lawrence
                    -burgh; 
                  
                            Cass County
                         Times, 
                        Logansport
                    ; and the Post, 
                        Bloomington
                    .
            Some of these pleas are so unique that they merit being quoted in full. John
                    Scott's paper at 
                        Logansport
                     named three places where produce would be received and the
                    commodity acceptable at each place. The notice ran as follows: 
                        Wood, Corn and Potatoes will be received at the market prices, if
                            delivered soon in payment of this paper or old accounts. Wheat, oats and
                            corn will be received at the highest market prices in payment for 
                        
                                    Cass County
                                 Times if delivered at General Milroy's
                            near Delphi, at J. R. Merits, Tiptonsport or at Judge McCombs.8
                  
                    
                
            One statement in the Palladium at 
                        Lawrenceburgh
                     in 1833 read: 
                        Flour, Corn, Oats, Pork, Potatoes, and Wood received at this Office in
                            payment for papers.9
                  
                    
                
            One month later the following paragraph was inserted: 
                        Wood! Wood!! Cold types and frosty fingers are as uncomfortable
                            companions as old age and poverty. Those who have promised us wood and
                            others who wish to avail themselves of the privilege of making payment
                            in this seasonable article, are advised that the roads are tolerably
                            fair. "A word to the wise," etc. Editor.10
                     
                  
                    
                
            Five years later the proprietor of the Post at 
                        Bloomington
                     was willing to accept almost any article as part or full payment
                    for delinquent subscriptions. He stated that,
            
               
                  7Franklin W. Scott, Newspapers and
                            Periodicals of 
                                Illinois
                            
                   1814–1879, in Collections of
                            the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library (
                            Springfield
                        , 1910), Vol VI, p. xxix.
               
                  8
                  
                     
                                Cass County
                             Times, Feb. 24, 1832.
               
                  9
                  Indiana Palladium, Dec. 14, 1833.
               
                  10
                  Indiana Palladium, Jan. 11,
                    1834.
            
            
            
                    Persons expecting to pay for their papers in produce must do so or the cash
                        will be extracted.11 Pork, flour, corn, and meal will be
                        taken at the market prices. Also those who expect to pay us in firewood must
                        do so immediately—we must have our wood laid in for the winter
                        before the roads get bad.12
               
                
            The whole plan of getting money from subscribers was so unsatisfactory by the end
                    of the 1830's, that some of the more progressive editors were looking
                    for a better method of being paid for their work. Late in 1839, it was decided
                    that the adoption of a cash system would be most advantageous. July 4, 1840, was
                    the date set for the new system to go into effect. After this time none of the
                    editors of eleven papers, who became parties to the agreement, were to let
                    papers go out without having first received the subscription price. The
                    proprietors who entered the agreement and the papers they represented were:
                    Douglass and Noel of the Indiana Journal; John Livingtson of
                    the Indiana Democrat; Edwin T. Gabriel of the 
                        Connersville
                    
                    Watchman; J. C. and D. Douglass of the Logansport
                        Herald; Holloway and Davis of the 
                  
                            Richmond
                         Palladium; W. H. and J. J. Chandler of the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Journal; Milton Gregg of the Political
                    Beacon; Stuart and Kipp of the 
                  
                            Michigan City
                         Gazette; Mattingly and Green of the 
                  
                            New Albany
                         Gazette; C. Hay and Z. W. Rowse of the 
                        Salem
                    
                    Whig; and Hannum and Grubbs of the Indiana
                        Sun.13
            
            A cash system for newspapers was a step forward and although there were still
                    many things that could be improved in the management of the newspapers the
                    constant bickering and quarreling with subscribers was done away with. The
                    papers with a large city circulation solved the problem sooner than those in the
                    rural communities, which had a large mailing list. The former could leave
                    collections in the hands of carriers and no patron need be more than a week or
                    two in arrears.
            The advertising rates of Indiana newspapers for twenty years after 1829 were
                    surprisingly uniform.14 The rates at 
                  
                     11 How this would be done he did not say.
                  
                     12
                     Post, Oct. 26, 1838.
                  
                     13
                     Tri-Weekly Journal, Dec. 9,
                            1839, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     14 See Tri-Weekly Journal, Dec.
                            9, 1829; Indiana Republican, July 15, 1830, 
                                Madison
                            ; 
                        
                                    Cass County
                                 Times, Nov. 16, 1831; 
                                Connersville
                            
                            Watchman, Dec. 6, 1839; and Tri-Weekly 
                                    New Albany
                                 Democrat, July 1, 1847.
               
                     which space was offered was one dollar for
                    ten lines or less for one insertion and twenty-five cents for each additional
                    insertion. Merchants and others who would agree to a yearly contract were given
                    a liberal discount.
            At the editorial convention held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1837, uniform advertising rates were agreed upon for Indiana
                        publishers.15 The schedule as adopted confirmed the
                    above rates and set the amount to be charged; for a square (250 ems) at
                    $10.00 per annum; for two squares $16.50; and three
                    squares $20.00. The rate for a quarter of a column was
                    $25.00, for a half column $35.00, and for a column
                    $50.00 per annum. Chancery notices, divorce petitions and foreign
                    advertisements were to be paid for by cash in advance.
            Although the editors did not have as much difficulty in collecting for
                    advertising as they did for subscriptions yet there were many pleas printed in
                    the 1830's and the 1840's for dilatory advertisers to come to
                    the office and settle their accounts.
            THE CONTENTS
                    OF
                    THE ANTEBELLUM PAPERS
            
            Aside from minor characteristics peculiar to certain newspapers, the pioneer
                    press in Indiana had some general features which were common to all. A composite
                    picture of many papers published in the state any time between 1829 and 1849
                    would fit almost any paper. The similarity of style and of makeup or arrangement
                    of subject matter is quite noticeable.
            From the standpoint of the historian and those who are interested in the every
                    day life of Hoosiers almost one hundred years ago, the absence of local news is
                    regrettable. The pioneer papers were almost destitute of local references.1 Exceptions to this were the local ads, a few
                    communications and speeches, and accounts of some unusual events which came
                    along occasionally.
            Taking place of local news were the clippings from eastern and middle western
                    newspapers. It may have been that in 
                  
                     15 All these rates in detail may be seen in Western Sun, June 24, 1837.
                  
                     1 See Ales of almost any pioneer journal: Biographical and Historical Record of 
                                    Adams
                                 and 
                                    Wells
                                 Counties, Indiana, 698; History of 
                                Hendricks County
                            , Indiana, 428: Counties of La Grange and 
                                    Noble
                                , Indiana Historical and Biographical, 76.
               
                     using these exchanges the editors were
                    following the line of least resistance. It apparently was much easier to copy
                    bodily choice articles from the eastern press that came by mail than to ferret
                    out enough local news to fill the same amount of space. Then, with only a punter
                    or a printer and his devil, it may have been physically impossible to go outside
                    the office to gather up and report local news. Yet the readers were apparently
                    not critical concerning this method of preparing a large portion of their
                    reading matter.
            The successive issues of the Western Sun, during the month of
                    July, 1830, reveal to what extent these articles were used and are typical of
                    the practices of the period. Editor Stout's weekly journal carried
                    exchanges for the publication of July 3 from the following papers: Western Times, 
                            Ohio
                         Monitor, 
                            Baltimore
                         Republican, 
                            Louisville
                         Public Advertiser, Budgeton, N. J. Whig, American Manufacturer,
                        U. S. Telegraph, 
                            Cincinnati Gazette
                        
               , 
                        Lynchburg
                    
                    
                  
                            Virginian
                        , 
                            Pennsylvania
                         Inquirer, 
                        New York
                    
                    Herald, 
                        New York
                    
                    Courier, and Inquirer, and Gazette de 
                            France
                        
               . Those used the following week were: Macon Telegraph, Marietta Gazette, 
                            Texas
                         Gazette, Evening Post (
                        Chillicothe
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    ), 
                  
                            Ohio
                         State Journal, 
                            Miami
                         Times and 
                  
                            Philadelphia
                         Morning Journal. The issue for July 17 depended upon an
                    entirely new group, including: 
                        New York
                    
                    Evening Post, 
                            St. Louis
                         Times, Galena Journal, 
                            Baltimore
                         American, 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Public Advertiser, Muskingum Messenger,
                    Harrisburg Intelligence, 
                            New England
                         Galaxy and the Mountaineer. To complete
                    the paper for July 24 the editor published clippings from: the National Intelligencer, 
                            Dayton
                         Republican, 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Public Advertiser, Frederick Citizen, 
                            Kentucky
                         Nation, Kanhawa Register, 
                        New York
                    
                    Medical Inquirer, and Winchester Republican.
                    The last publication for the month, that of July 31, contained reprints from the
                        
                  
                            New Hampshire
                         Patriot and State Gazette, National Journal, 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Public Advertiser, Banner of the Constitution, Raleigh Star and Gazette, and the Nottingham Review,
                    an English paper.
            In some issues the editor used two clippings from the same paper and in some few
                    cases three. The nearness of 
                        Vincennes
                     to 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     and the fact that mail brought batches of papers from those towns
                    quite often tend  to explain the frequent
                    appearance of articles from there. When a paper reached the office of one of
                    these early printers it was used freely. Editors in the towns on the
                        Ohio river, such as 
                        Madison
                    , 
                        Lawrenceburgh
                    , and 
                        New Albany
                     received news from 
                        New Orleans
                    , from boat captains. Not long after the arrival of one of the
                    larger boats there would appear news notes and exchanges from other towns along
                    the river. During the period of the Mexican War editors were unusually anxious
                    to get this kind of service.
            After the introduction of the telegraph, eastern exchanges were not used so
                    often, but Indiana editors still exchanged papers. In 1854 Chapman's Chanticleer in one weekly issue carried properly
                    acknowledged articles from these papers: 
                  
                            Evansville
                         Enquirer; Free Democrat, 
                  Centerville; Vincennes
               
                    Patriot;
                    
                        Warsaw
                    
                    Republican; 
                            Brookville
                         Democrat; 
                            South Bend
                         Register; White River Standard, 
                        Bedford
                    ; Locomotive, 
                        Crawfordsville
                    ; Courier, 
                        Madison
                    ; 
                  
                            New Albany
                         Ledger, Sentinel, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Rushville Republican; and 
                  
                            Goshen
                         Democrat.2 The Chanticleer was a political organ and the articles were all on current
                    campaign topics.
            In using material from other sources the editors as a rule were frank and
                    faithfully credited the article to its proper paper. Of course there were some
                    cases of unfair tactics. In most cases unless an editor had taken on a war with
                    a rival there was no complaint. Occasionally he would announce in his own
                    columns that brother editors were at liberty to use any of his material,
                    providing the proper acknowledgment was made. At times the proprietor would
                    print notices similar to this: "
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     papers please copy". For example, Editor Stout of the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Sun in 1834 said that 
                        the Herald a newspaper at 
                                Evansville
                             publishes a statement by a Mr. Daugherty of an affray at
                            that place … and the editor requests that it may be copied
                            into all other papers. To gratify our new brother and to do an act of
                            justice to the citizens of 
                                Evansville
                             it shall have a place next week.3
                  
                    
                
            About three weeks later the Indiana Palladium printed this:
            
               
                  2
                  Chapman's Chanticleer,
                        Jan. 26, 1854, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               
                  3
                  Western Sun, October 11,
                    1834.
            
            
            
                    The Editors of the 
                     
                                Cincinnati
                             Republican and Western Hemisphere
                        who recently copied from this paper an advertisement, signed
                        "Walter Armstrong" will please discontinue it as the
                        property is sold.4
               
                
            Henry Ward Beecher expressed an opinion concerning the exchange of papers as
                    follows: 
                        We send our paper to many established journals, soliciting an exchange;
                            an even one if they please, but otherwise we will, upon notification pay
                            the difference willingly, for the benefit of the labors of our able
                                contemporaries.5
                  
                    
                
            The subject matter of this reprinted material was miscellaneous in character and
                    included information about all kinds of human activities. The titles of some of
                    these articles borrowed from other journals will indicate their varied
                    character. One issue of the Indiana Journal carried these
                    articles: "Minutes of the Proceedings of Congress"; "Bibb
                    elected by the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature to succeed Col. R. M. Johnson whose term has expired";
                    "Surveyor lost in a Quagmire"; "U. S. Revenue Collected";
                    "Proposed boundary of the new territory of Huron"; and "
                        Ohio
                     man claims to be the brother of Jesus Christ".6
                    The next year, the editor of a 
                        Madison
                     paper used the entire front page to print an exchange from the Cherokee Phoenix on the right of 
                        Georgia
                     to extend her laws over the Cherokee nation.7
            
            The advertisements of business establishments in the different towns give an
                    indication of the types of stores there and the kinds of articles each had to
                    sell. Such information sheds some light on the early local history of the
                    communities.
            In 1830 a 
                        Madison
                     paper placed its commercial advertisements on the third and fourth
                        pages.8 Commodities advertised were hay, wheat,
                    queensware, tea, window glass, and gunpowder. By 1839 merchants were evidently
                    beginning to see the value of advertising and the number of advertisers were
                    increasing as well as was the amount of space used in each advertisement. A four
                    page 
                        Connersville
                     weekly in December of that year published sales notices of the
                    following nature: real estate, commission packing, dry goods, fire insurance,
                        
                  
                     4
                            Indiana Palladium, Nov. 1, 1834.
                  
                     5
                            The Indiana Farmer and Gardener, Feb. 1, 1845, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     6
                            Indiana Journal, Jan. 3, 1829, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     7
                            Indiana Republican, Oct. 7, 1830.
                  
                     8
                            The Indiana Republican, Oct. 7, 1830.
               
                     hats, shovels, nails, yarns, boots and
                        shoes.9 On the same page were the following notices: an
                    administrator's notice regarding the settlement of an estate,10 patrons requested to pay butcher at once; apprentice
                    wanted at the Watchman office; dissolution of partnership; a
                    women's monthly magazine; a doctor's card; and an announcement
                    that one 
                        Connersville
                     man had a farriery11 and blacksmith shop
                    combined.
            In one issue in 1847 the editor of the Democrat at 
                        New Albany
                    , a tri-weekly paper of four pages of four columns each, used the
                    entire first and fourth pages and a part of the third page for advertisements.
                    The first two columns contained the following miscellaneous advertisements:
                    farms and mills for sale, groceries and fruits, cheese, new books, corn, powder,
                    wholesale drugs and chemicals, tobacco, window paper, vinegar, flour, and
                    notices of a sheriff's sale, and a coming election of a school trustee.
                    Columns three and four on this page were filled with tea advertisements. The
                    content of the fourth page was similar to that of the first.12
            
            The advertisements which appeared in the antebellum newspapers in Indiana should
                    be of great value to the historian in attempting to interpret the life of the
                    people in that period. Before the adoption of local news as a feature of the
                    papers, advertisements were appearing. At that time no other part of the paper
                    was as close to the daily life of the people in a given community as were the
                    advertisements.
            In pioneer days when the duties of a newspaper proprietor were laborious an? the
                    amount of revenue derived from the profession comparatively small, it was only
                    natural for the editor to accept practically any kind of advertisement. By 1850
                    patent medicine advertisements were being inserted freely and seemingly without
                    restriction. Choice positions were given to them and many appeared on the front
                    page. They must have been welcome sources of revenue. One of the more
                    pretentious advertisements appeared for weeks at a time in the daily Tribune at 
                        New Albany
                     in 1852.18 It was in 
                  
                     9
                            The Watchman, Dec 6, 1839.
                  
                     10 This was appearing for the sixth consecutive
                            week.
                  
                     11 A veterinary surgeon's shop.
                  
                     12
                            TriWeekly 
                                    New Albany
                                 Democrat, Sept. 30, 1847.
                  
                     13
                            
                        
                                    New Albany
                                 Daily Tribune, June 30, 1852.
               
                     the interests of
                    "Radway's Ready Remedies", and occupied two-thirds of a
                    column. It was claimed that these remedies, three in number were so
                    "prepared as to harmonize and act in unison with each other"
                    and when taken separately or together would instantly stop pain. The claim for
                    No. 1 of the trio, "Radway's Ready Relief", said, "It
                    has cured in ninety cases out of a hundred", rheumatism, neuralgia, croup,
                    diarrhoea, toothache, spasm, cramps, sick headache, chill fever, sore throat and
                    influenza. As if to ward off the possible objections that might be raised by any
                    "doubting Thomas" figures were presented to show that 70,000
                    cases of rheumatism had been cured in three large eastern cities and 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    . Whether it was modesty or the cost of advertising that prevented
                    the company from making other extravagant claims is not known, yet one might
                    suspect it was not modesty.
            Since the above remedy did not attempt to cure quite all the diseases human flesh
                    was heir to, a second remedy was offered for sale. This was
                    "Radway's Renovating Resolvent" and was warranted to
                    cure scrofula, humors, cancers, tumors, rickets, salt rheum, syphilis, epilepsy,
                    ulcers, and fever sores.
            If by chance the ailment was one not covered by the first or second remedy, a
                    third called "Radway's Regulators" was recommended.
                    Claims were made in the advertisement that No. 3 would cure indigestion, sour
                    stomach, measles, liver complaint, dyspepsia, constipation, heart burn,
                    smallpox, kidney complaint, and six kinds of fever.
            To the historian, patent medicine advertisements of this and similar nature show
                    that unscrupulous companies deliberately attempted to mislead readers who knew
                    little about the problems of disease and health. They also reveal a low standard
                    of the press. Advertisements of questionable character should have been rejected
                    by the editor.14
            
            Miscellaneous notices, which appeared rather frequently were lists of uncalled
                    for letters remaining at the local post-offices,15 the
                    schedules for outgoing and incoming mail, descriptions 
                  
                     14 But the practice is still carried on by some of
                            the twentieth century papers.
                  
                     15 The Indiana Journal of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , on April 30, 1829, carried lists of unclaimed letters in
                            these Indiana postoffices: 
                                Greensburgh
                            , 
                        Bedford,
                                    Crawfordsville
                     , 
                                Green Castle
                            , and 
                                Bloomfield
                            .
               
                     of estrayed or stolen animals and notices
                    of various court proceedings. From 1829 until at least 1840 occasional warnings
                    appeared against the public harboring fugitives from justice, runaway slaves,
                    and "bound boys".16
            
            Before the Civil War lottery notices were common. Much stress was placed on the
                    liberal prizes offered but the individual was not told that he had only one
                    chance out of hundreds to win anything.
            Communications to the editor were published in many of the pioneer journals. Many
                    of these letters were on political subjects and a larger number appeared during
                    a campaign than at any other time. Some of these communications would not be
                    considered worth reading today while a few were able presentations. Writers
                    seldom signed their names to communications but instead preferred anonymity. To
                    illustrate, the Western Sun, at 
                        Vincennes
                    , from August 1, 1829, to October 1, 1831, inclusive, contained
                    contributions to which the following names were signed: Humilus, Unus, A citizen
                    of old 
                        Knox
                    , Senex, Hays of the West, Je Latinebus Indianorum, Cassius,
                    Vincennes, T., Don Quizzicus, Noah, Justice, No Jockey, and a Wanderer. Since
                    they were in many cases anonymous there is no way to tell who wrote them. Even
                    the editor may have made some of the contributions.
            The newspapers show that the custom of drinking toasts was quite common in
                    Indiana, in the 1830's. Toasts were given during important celebrations
                    and especially at patriotic meetings. On July 4, 1835, at 
                        Lawrenceburgh
                    , thirteen regular and five volunteer toasts were given.17 A few days later in the same town, when a celebration was
                    held at the commencement of the Lawrenceburgh and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad, thirteen regular and twenty volunteer toasts were
                        given.18
            
            At the conclusion of a patriotic celebration of 
                        Washington
                    's birthday at 
                        Logansport
                     in 1832 toasts on the following subjects were given: General George
                    Washington, the Army and Navy of the U. S., the suffering Poles, 
                        France
                    , the Liberty Tree, Charles Carroll, General Lafayette, the memory
                    of Simon Bolivar, Indiana, and the American Fair. After this, 
                  
                     16 Indentured apprentices.
                  
                     17
                            Indiana Palladium, July 11, 1835, Lawrenceburgh.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., July 25, 1835.
               
                     twenty-three volunteer toasts were given
                    which ranged from two to six lines in length when printed.19
            
            Some of the papers carried contributions of poetry and prose from local writers.
                    Toward the 1840's and thereafter more attention was given to this kind
                    of material. Many of the short stories were from one to two columns in length
                    and were reprinted from other newspapers. These stories were often melodramatic
                    in character. The humorous articles, which were brief, centered around pioneer
                    life. Puns were common.
            THE NEWSPAPERS
                    AND POLITICS
            
            No history of Indiana newspaper development would be complete that did not show
                    the intimate relationship which the paper bore to politics. The titles borne by
                    many of the papers suggested their political alignment, while only a glance at
                    the subject matter of others is required.
            The very existence of many of the pioneer papers was dependent upon the results
                    of elections. Many a paper took an active part in a political campaign only to
                    die when the party it supported lost in the election. Others were launched as
                    political organs with the intention of being kept in the field only till
                    election day. In some few cases an editor of a daily or tri-weekly would put out
                    a special political edition every week during a campaign. Some examples of
                    purely political papers were: Spirit of '76, 1840;
                        Chapman's Coon Skinner, 1844; Whig
                        Rifle, 1844; and Chapman's Chanticleer,
                    1854; all printed in Indiaanpolis.
            The pioneer journals seemed to go through a boom period during the progress of
                    closely contested national and state campaigns. Journals already established
                    increased their circulations and new ones entered the field. If the contents of
                    the papers during the period 1829–1860 is any criterion, then
                    Hoosiers were already thinking, talking and living politics. In campaign times
                    political articles outnumbered every other kind. If there were two papers in a
                    community they were usually on the opposite "sides of the
                    fence" politically. If 
                  
                     19
                            
                        
                                    Cass County
                                 Times, Feb. 24, 1832.
               
                     only single paper was in the locality, it
                    usually supported the party that seemed strongest. In most instances an editor
                    would move to another town when his clientele seemed hostile. One case is on
                    record, however, where an editor "flopped" from the advocacy
                    of Democratic principles to those of Whig. Samuel Meredith, editor of the Peoples Advocate, "finding that a Democratic journal
                    could not be made to pay in 
                        Wayne County
                    , changed the name of his paper to the 
                  
                            Wayne County
                         Chronicle and advocated Whig principles".l
            
            Sometimes stock companies composed of men of one political faith would set up an
                    editor in business in order to have an organ of their own in the neighborhood.
                    The 
                  
                            Pulaski
                         Democrat was a product of this sort of organization.
                    According to one account it was founded in 1858, 
                        when several prominent Democrats formed a sort of a stock company,
                            purchased the necessary material and engaged … a Mr. James
                            Mahaffie to manage and edit their party paper called the 
                        
                                    Pulaski
                                 Democrat.2
                  
                    
                
            Elections were held every year and one was no sooner over than preparations were
                    started for another. An example of an early announcement for office occurred in 
                        Knox County
                     in 1831. Just nineteen days after the election in August, 1831, the
                    editor of the Sun at 
                        Vincennes
                     said, 
                        I am authorized to announce James Burns as a candidate for sheriff at our
                            next August election.3
                  
                    
                
            The methods of the editors in getting their political messages to their
                    subscribers varied with the editor and with the amount of material available.
                    Editorials, jokes, accounts of meetings and rallies, communications and
                    exchanges were all employed to inform and to influence (if possible) the reader.
            If an editor survived an election with his paper and continued to publish it
                    regularly, he found in the messages of the president and the governor and in the
                    proceedings of the legislature and congress, another fertile source of supply.
                    Much importance was attached to this kind of news through the out the entire
                    period from 1829 to 1860.
            
               
                  1
                        History of 
                                Wayne County
                            , Indiana, 533.
               
                  2
                        Counties of 
                                White
                             and 
                                Pulaski
                            , Indiana, Historical and Biographical is Star, cago,
                        1883). p. 630.
               
                  3
                        Western Sun, Aug. 20, 1831.
            
            
            
               
                        Scott
                     and Van Derveer used over half of one issue of their 
                  
                            Cass County
                         Times in 1832 to present one of Jackaon's
                    messages. Their statement to subscribers was, 
                        The length of the President's message has excluded several
                            articles intended for this number—they will appear next
                                week.4
                  
                    
                
            In October, 1833, the proprietor of the Republican and Herald,
                    at 
                        Logansport
                     said, 
                        We are compelled to omit several editorials, as well as other articles,
                            intended for this paper, in consequence of the great length of the
                            letter from the President to the members of his Cabinet on the propriety
                            of removing the deposites of the U. S. Bank. But we do not hesitate to
                            say that after an attentive perusal of the document … the
                            reader will not censure our selection.5
                  
                    
                
            The explanation of the editor of the Palladium which
                    accompanied the publication of President Jackson's message to congress
                    on December 3, 1833, read as follows: 
                        We have necessarily robbed our paper of its accustomed variety, and we
                            have left over much interesting matter. Next week we will endeavor to
                            bring up the deferred articleas
                    
                
            In 1834, exactly one year later the same editor made an apology for taking up
                    fourteen of the twenty columns in printing the message of Governor Noble to the
                    Indiana General Assembly and that of Jackson to congress. He said, 
                        We are indebted to the assistant postmaster at 
                                Cincinnati
                             for the President's message which we give today to
                            the exclusion of other matter. Our advertising friends will please
                            excuse any neglect this week.7
                  
                    
                
            The next year the message was unavoidably divided by the editor who hastened to
                    explain. He said, 
                        We present our readers, today, with about half of the
                            President's Message. The first side of our paper was struck off
                            before we received the message or we should have published the whole of
                            it this week.8
                  
                    
                
            Editor Stout expressed the same idea to his readers when he said:
            
               
                  4
                  
                     
                                Cass County
                             Times, Aug. 18, 1832.
               
                  5
                  The 
                                Logansport
                             Republican and Indiana Herald, Oct. 24, 1833.
               
                  6
                  Indiana Palladium, Dec. 4, 1833,
                        Lawrenceburgh.
               
                  7
                  Ibid., Dec. 13, 1834.
               
                  8
                  Indiana Palladium, Dec. 19,
                    1835.
            
            
            
                    I have filled the Sun of today with the proceedings of
                        Congress and of our State Legislature, almost to the exclusion of everything
                        else. Believing this kind of reading more important than any other at this
                        time I shall continue to do so during their sittings.9
               
                
            The practice was still common in 1858. Editor Garber of the Courier at 
                        Madison
                     announced: 
                        Our readers will perceive that Mr. Buchanan's message occupies
                            for the last two days a large proportion of our paper, to the almost
                            total exclusion of other news.10
                  
                    
                
            There are at least three reasons why the editors took such an interest in
                    politics and government and printed so much of this type of news. In the first
                    place the newspaper was a reflection of the interests of the people of Indiana.
                    The people of Indiana became more interested in politics after Jackson, a
                    western man, reached the presidency. It was only natural for the editor to try
                    to give them suitable reading matter. In the second place, there was government
                    printing to be done, federal, state, and local, which was worth working for. The
                    way to get this printing was to line up with a party, fight for it desperately
                    and claim the reward if victory resulted. Another reason which motivated some of
                    the Indiana editors in entering the list for a particular political party, was
                    the expectation or hope of getting an office. Success was crowning their labors
                    as early as Jackson's second election. One historian summarized the
                    situation at this time as follows: 
                        There are evidences during the year 1832 that the editors of the te were
                            receiving more political honors than formerly. George Kinard, editor of
                            the Indiana Democrat, was elected to Congress from the 
                                Indianapolis
                             district; John Ewing of the 
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Telegraph was elected from the 
                                Vincennes
                             district, David V. Culley of the 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Palladium came up as state senator from 
                                Dearborn
                            , Alexander Morrison of the Indiana
                            Democrat represented 
                                Marion
                             and 
                                Hamilton
                             counties in the Senate, Marks Crume and Caleb Smith of the 
                                Connersville
                             papers represented 
                                Fayette
                            , and James H. Wallace, an editor of 
                                Madison
                             came up from 
                                Jefferson
                            .11
                  
                    
                
            Many Indiana editors were active partisans during the period 1829 to 1860 on
                    state and local issues and upon the 
                  
                     9
                            Western Sim, Dec. 25, 1834.
                  
                     10
                            Daily Evening Courier, Dee. 10, 1858.
                  
                     11 Logan Esarey. "History of the Press in
                            Indiana" in Indianapol March 28, 1915.
               
                     big national questions such as: The Jackson-Calhoun-
                        Clay
                     fight, the bank, internal improvements, election of 1840, the
                    Compromise of 1850, the Free Soil movement, the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act and the slavery controversy.
            CONCLUSION
            
            For the progress made by pioneer communities in Indiana, no little credit should
                    be given to the early editors and their newspapers. Although the newspapers have
                    often been controversial and partisan in character, have been irregular in
                    publication, and have printed many things of trivial nature and omitted
                    important matters, they have been, nevertheless of inestimable value to the
                    state.
            The press entered the state with the early inhabitants. It preceded by several
                    years in many communities: free schools, public libraries, railroads and
                    telegraph lines. When there were no schools its pages were one of the few
                    sources of education. When there were no public libraries and books were too
                    expensive for the average family, newspaper stories were read eagerly. When
                    railroads and telegraph lines had not entered the state the pioneer traveled
                    little and must have relied heavily on the local paper for news of the outside
                    world. All the more credit should be given the editor because he worked
                    courageously despite the presence of numerous hardships and handicaps.
            In conclusion it may be added that We owe much to the files of antebellum papers
                    for the aid they give in reconstructing the past. Their columns will be ever
                    welcome aids in throwing light on the manners, thoughts, customs, ideas,
                    amusements and troubles of our forefathers.
         
      
      
         
      
   
