
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 95, Issue 1, pages 1-100. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:95+issue:1+year:1999&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Sault Ste. Marie and the War of 1812: A World Turned Upside Down in the Old Northwest
            
                    Robert E. Bieder
                    ∗
                
            According to Wendell Phillips, the nineteenth-century antislavery leader, "Revolutions are
                    not made; they come."1 So it must have seemed for the residents of
                    Sault Ste. Marie when the revolution unleashed there by the War of 1812 turned their world upside
                    down. After the American Revolution the settlement of Sault Ste. Marie on the south bank of the St.
                    Mary's River, the river that marked the boundary between 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                    , came under the jurisdiction of the 
                        United States
                     and, after 1805, formed part of the new Territory of 
                        Michigan
                    . Thus the War of 1812 did not represent an act of political liberation; instead it
                    constituted a revolution of a different sort, one that brought changes in the social, political, and
                    economic life of the community.2
            
            Sault Ste. Marie straddled the St. Mary's River that emptied Lake Superior's waters into Lake Huron.
                    The settlement lay just below the site where the river tumbled down a series of rapids. Because of
                    the abundant fish, the Ojibwa and the 
                        Ottawa
                     had long congregated at this site in the summer for fishing and for religious and
                    social ceremonies.3 The French early in the 1600s recognized the advantages of
                    the location as a trade center, and so did the English who followed the French in exploiting the
                    place as a prime spot to conduct 
                  
                     ∗ Robert E. Bieder holds a doctorate from the University of
                                    
                        Minnesota, Minneapolis
                     . He is currently visiting professor
                            in the School of Public and Environmental Affairs, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                  
                     1 Wendell Phillips, "Speech" (January 8, 1852) as
                            quoted in John Bartlett, Bartlett's Familiar Quotations (Fifieenth ed., 
                                Boston
                            , 1968), 538.
                  
                     2 Aiding in the formulation of the thesis of this paper were the ideas
                            of Clifford Geertz as put forth in The Social History of an Indonesian
                            Town (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1965), especially chapters 1, 2, and 6; and Paul Shankman,
                            "The Thick and the Thin: On the Interpretive Theoretical Program of Clifford
                            Geertz," Current Anthropology, XXV (June, 1984), 261-80.
                  
                     3 George Johnston, "Reminiscences By George Johnston, Of
                            Sault Ste. Marie, 1815" (
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 Pioneer and Historical Society Historical Collections, Vol. XI, 1887;
                            reprint, Lansing, Mich., 1908), 606; Harold Hickerson, The Chippewa and Their
                                Neighbors: A Study in Ethnohistory (
                                New York
                            , 1970), 39-40; Harold Hickerson, The Southwestern Chippewa: An
                                Ethnohistorical Study (American Anthropological Association, Memoir
                            92; Menasha, Wis., 1962), 78-81 [issued as American Anthropologist,
                            new ser., LXIV, (June, 1962)]; E. S. Rogers, "Southeastern Ojibwa," Handbook of North American Indians; Vol. 15, Northeast,
                            ed. Bruce G. Trigger (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1978), 761; Robert E. Bieder, Native American Communities
                                in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                , 1600-1960: A Study of Tradition and Change (
                                Madison
                            , Wis., 1995), 32-33.
               
                     the fur trade.4 Under the British the Sault
                    became a trading center for the large North-West Fur Company and for a few lesser companies. Houses
                    of the traders, fur warehouses, the huts occupied by their employees, and the wigwams of the Ojibwa
                    stretched along both sides of the St. Mary's River just below the rapids.5
                    Throughout the years of French and British occupation, Sault Ste. Marie survived despite the
                    economic vagaries of the fur trade. To call the settlement a village would be an exaggeration.
            The settlement, marked by a two-tiered class system, mimicked a seigneurial world. Fur traders, who
                    constituted the elite, were Europeans of substance and exercised a paternalistic control over their
                    lower-class laborers, extending them credit, providing them places to live, employment, and
                    presents, and often serving as godfathers to their children. In return, traders expected loyalty and
                    deference. In a volatile world governed more by custom than by law, trust was vital. The laborers,
                    mainly lower-class French, Scots, and mixed-blood Ojibwa or 
                        Ottawa
                    , filled positions as both employees and retainers; they not only worked for their
                    benefactor but also fought his battles and pledged their allegiance. Although most of the Ojibwa
                    shared a lower-class status with the European and mixed-blood laborers, some of the headmen,
                    spiritual leaders, and band chiefs of the local Ojibwa community were accorded a higher ranking.6 While such a society harkened back to seignourial Europe, it was also
                    compatible with the Ojibwa society, which was characterized by heavy kinship obligations and
                    responsibilities. Indeed, in many ways, Sault society was more Ojibwa than European and proved
                    superbly adapated to the severe environment and precarious economic situation.
            In Sault Ste. Marie nearly all the traders married or cohabited with Indian women or women of mixed
                    blood. Traders learned quickly to marry into important Ojibwa and 
                        Ottawa
                     families. Kinship and ties of affinity proved more than merely useful to the traders.
                    They were both a source of power and a necessity if one was to achieve success in the trade. One
                    Sault trader, the Irishman John Johnston, courted and married the daughter of Waubejeeg, or the
                    White Fisher. Because the White Fisher was a major band chief among the Ojibwa on the south shore of
                    Lake Superior in the 1790s, Johnston greatly improved his opportunity for trade with the Ojibwa. He
                    was not alone in gaining economic advantage through marriage. One of Johnston's rivals in the fur
                    trade married another daughter of the same chief. Obviously, the White Fisher could also take out
                    insurance. Other 
                  
                     4 Hickerson, Southwestern Chippewa, 82; Graham A.
                            MacDonald, "Commerce, Civility and Old Sault Ste. Marie," The
                                Beaver, CCCXII (Autumn, 1981), 19-20.
                  
                     5 A description of early Sault Ste. Marie can be found in MacDonald,
                            "Commerce, Civility and Old Sault Ste. Marie," 19-24; ibid., CCCXII (Winter, 1981), 52-59; Johnston, "Reminiscences,"
                            605-11.
                  
                     6 MacDonald, "Commerce, Civility and Old Sault Ste.
                            Marie," (Autumn, 1981), 19-24; Johnston, "Reminiscences,"
                        606-11.
               
                     important traders, such as the French emigrè
                    Jean-Baptiste Nolin and the Swiss emigrè Charles Oakes Ermatinger, likewise married
                    Ojibwa women from important families.7
            
            Children of these unions were distinguished from those of the lower-class French, Scots, and
                    mixed-blood laborers by rank and education. Many of the traders' children, for example, were
                    educated in Montreal, and Johnston even sent one of his daughters to 
                        Ireland
                     for education.8 Upper-class and educated mixed-blood males
                    generally assumed positions as clerks or attained higher entrepreneurial status in the fur trade.
            Kinship was only one social structure that could be manipulated to maintain status and create a
                    functioning community. Exchanges of presents and the custom of generosity also proved important. In
                    such a harsh environment wealth had to be shared and credit extended to assure survival. Trade was a
                    product of alliances, not the reverse. Gaining allies for protection or for future wars proved of
                    major importance to Indian groups who upon successfully negotiating alliances sealed them with
                    presents and often with the exchange of both women and men in order to establish kinship bonds. The
                    value of the objects traded was less important than the symbolic meaning of the exchange. Generosity
                    insured loyalties.9 Knowledge of the Ojibwa and French languages also proved
                    useful not only for trade but also for the establishment of easy social rapport. With an
                    understanding of Ojibwa one gained insight into those aspects of religion related through legends
                    and tales and thus into culture and personality. An ability to speak Ojibwa also allowed joking
                    relationships and the recounting of stones of physical stamina, both of which served cohesive
                    symbolic functions in Sault society.
            The community of Sault Ste. Marie ranked economics more important than politics. Both British and
                    American political concern were too distant to interest people in the settlement. British
                    authorities were hard pressed in their attempts to enlist the residents of the Sault to take even
                    rudimentary steps in their own defense as the War of 1812 approached.10 When the
                    traders and their armies of Ojibwa 
                  
                     7 MacDonald, "Commerce, Civility and Old Sault Ste.
                            Marie," (Autumn, 1981), 22; Donald Chaput, "The 'Misses Nolin' of Red
                            River," Beaver, CCCVI (Winter, 1975), 14-15; Henry Rowe
                            Schoolcraft, Personal Memoirs of a Residence of Thirty Years with the Indian
                                Tribes on the American Frontiers (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1851), 93, 107.
                  
                     8 Henry Rowe Schoolcraft, "Memoirs of John Johnston"
                                (
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 Pioneer and Historical Collections, Vol. XXXVI; Lansing, Mich., 1908),
                            61-62. See also Jennifer S. H. Brown, "Ultimate Respectability: Fur-trade Children
                            in the 'Civilized World,"' Beaver, CCCVII (Winter, 1977), 4-10;
                                ibid. (Spring, 1978), 48-55; Jennifer S. H. Brown, Strangers in the Blood: Fur Trade Families in Indian Country (Vancouver, 
                                British Columbia
                            , 1980); Sylvia 
                                Van
                             Kirk, "Many Tender Ties": Women in Fur-Trade
                                Society in Western 
                                    Canada
                                , 1670-1870 (Winnipeg, 
                                Manitoba
                            , n.d.), chapter 7.
                  
                     9 Bruce G. Trigger, Natives and Newcomers: 
                                    Canada
                                's "Heroic Age" Reconsidered (Kingston, 
                                Ontario
                            , 1985), 185.
                  
                     10 As one official pointed out, the fur trade "is their sole
                            study." "Extract of a Statement of the Province of Upper 
                                Canada
                             Sent with Approbation of Lieut. General Hunter
               
                     and mixed-bloods carried out the attack on Fort Mackinac, they
                    did so not for the defense of country but out of anger stemming from the 1806 revision of the Jay
                    Treaty of 1794 that restricted British fur trade activities to 
                        Canada
                    . Both the Qjibwa and the traders wished to return to the old system that allowed
                    Indians living in what was now the 
                        United States
                     to trade freely with British traders and allowed British traders access to territory in
                    the 
                        United States
                    ." The army that attacked Fort Mackinac was not recruited by British officials
                    but by the traders themselves.
            The war, and the events shortly thereafter, brought about the transformation of the Sault community
                    by undercutting and replacing its old seigneurial society. In reprisal for the attack on Fort
                    Mackinac, American forces in 1814 sacked and destroyed the North-West Company's warehouse on the
                    Canadian side of the Sault. Because Americans suspected Johnston of being one of the agitators
                    urging the attack on Fort Mackinac, his warehouses were also destroyed.12 These
                    attacks seriously crippled the fur trade at the Sault.
            With the end of the war, the old residents of the Sault, including many of the local Ojibwa, were
                    apprehensive about the arrival of the Americans. Not knowing what to expect, they waited and were
                    uneasy about the future of their community and feared being at the mercy of distant events and
                        decisions.13 After the war American fears of British attacks and British
                    agitation of the Ojibwa in northern 
                        Michigan
                     prompted the American government in 1819 to survey land for a fort at the Sault. In
                    1820 the government forced the Ojibwa to relinquish land for this structure, and in 1822 Fort Brady
                    was built. That same year the government appointed Henry Rowe Schoolcraft Indian agent to the
                        Sault.14
            
            To the old residents of the Sault the American troops and officers represented more than a population
                    increase and the extension of American power. Likewise, the arrival of an Indian agent represented
                    more than the government's concern for Indians. Both events symbolized the loss of local control.
                    The intrusion of external power and authority undercut the influence of the local elite and altered
                    the social hierarchy. The new rules did not emerge from the community but originated in a distant
                    center. For the local population this new circumstance symbolized momentous change. Both
                    developments 
                  to Field Marshal His Royal Highness the Duke of 
                                Kent
                             Commander in Chief of British N. America, in the Year 1800" (
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 Pioneer and Historical Society Historical Collections, Vol. XV;
                            Lansing, Mich., 1890), 23.
                  
                     11 MacDonald, "Commerce, Civility and Old Sault Ste.
                            Marie" (Autumn, 1981), 24. Despite coming under American rule after the Revolution,
                            residents of the Sault continued to think of themselves as British subjects and to look to 
                                Canada
                             for their political and economic ties.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid.; Schoolcraft, "Memoirs of John Johnston," 66-68.
                  
                     13 Schoolcraft, Personal Memoirs, 128. See also
                            Johnston, "Reminiscences," for other views.
                  
                     14 Schoolcraft, Personal Memoirs, 87; Johnston,
                            "Reminiscences," 608-11.
               
                    
                    
                  SAULT STE. MARIE,
                            ABOUT 1820
                  Reproduced from H.R. Schoolcraft, Narrative Journal of Travels
                                through the Northwestern Regions of the 
                                    United States
                                … (
                                Albany
                            , 1821)
               
                     assured American control over the tribes and the region and
                    initiated the rule of American law.15
            
            The old settlers at the Sault recognized that not only did both Schoolcraft and the military draw
                    their orders and their salaries from outside but that their authority derived now from law rather
                    than custom. The new agents of power were responsible not to the old inhabitants but to distant
                    authorities and interests; hence, they did not need to negotiate with the old residents, engage in
                    community life, or subject themselves to the usual pressures that once tended to constrain community
                    leaders. Nor were the newly arrived Americans overtly concerned with including the old populace in
                    the process of change. As one fur trader noted regarding the construction of Fort Brady,
                    "It could scarcely be credited the work they have done and well done too, all by
                    themselves. Not an individual of the place was employed by them."16
                    Such methods of operation clashed with the sense of shared responsibility and obligation that
                    formerly prevailed among the people of Sault Ste. Marie.
            The "colonial" situation that now characterized the Sault left an inherently
                    unstable community. Only a weak sense of community involvement could be expected from the new
                    arrivals. Although the institutions were permanent, the personnel were not. There were few attempts
                    by the Americans after their arrival to enter actively into community functions. Except where called
                    upon to administer the laws of the territory, the American military kept themselves separate from
                    the old Sault residents.
            Even Schoolcraft seemed to distance himself from the community and entered into its life only to the
                    degree that proved necessary for the running of his office. When he did attend community
                    engagements, he exhibited little enthusiasm for the residents. Schoolcraft especially had an
                    antipathy for dinner parties and light conversations. Finding them dull and intellectually
                    unstimulating, he recorded in his journal, "I do not recollect any wise or merry remark
                    made during dinner, which is worth recording."'17 During the years that
                    Schoolcraft spent at the Sault, he never adapted to the local society and was a bit of a social
                    recluse. According to his journal, "The necessity of complying with times and occasions, by
                    accepting the current invitations of the day, is an impediment to any system of intellectual
                    employment; and whatever the world may think of it, the time devoted to public dinners and suppers,
                    routs and parties, is little better than time thrown away."18
            
            
               
                  15 Schoolcraft, Personal Memoirs, 90, 128.
               
                  16 Quoted in MacDonald, "Commerce, Civility and Old Sault Ste.
                        Marie" (Winter, 1981), 54.
               
                  17 Schoolcraft, Personal Memoirs, 149.
               
                  18
                        Ibid. On another occasion Schoolcraft wrote: "At three o'clock went
                        to dine with Mr. Siveright, at the North West Company House…. The evening was passed
                        with the ordinary sources of amusement. I have for sometime felt that the time
            
            
            Frequent replacement of commanders at the fort prevented their extended contact with the populace.
                    This, however, was not Schoolcraft's problem. Although he was to remain at the Sault for eleven
                    years, throughout his first year Schoolcraft sincerely believed that his assignment would be only
                    temporary. At the end of that year, learning that the government opening he sought in 
                        Missouri
                     would not be his, he stoically accepted that his position at the Sault—which
                    he often called the American Siberia—would be permanent. He confided in his journal his
                    sense of despair: "I do not, however, cease to hope that 
                        Providence
                     has a more eligible situation in reserve for me."19
            
            As Indian agent, Schoolcraft regulated the trade with the Ojibwa and 
                        Ottawa
                     Indians. Since the economy of the Sault was the Indian trade, whatever Schoolcraft did
                    to control the trade served to alienate the community. In order to discourage pro-British sympathy
                    among the Ojibwa and 
                        Ottawa
                     and at the same time prohibit British traders from entering the territory of the 
                        United States
                    , Schoolcraft issued licenses only to American traders. This policy discriminated
                    against the old trading firms and opened up the territory west of the Sault to independent American
                    traders, the most significant of which was John Jacob Astor's American Fur Company. Schoolcraft
                    further manipulated the Indian trade by controlling who would receive presents. To punish those
                    Indians traveling a few miles down river from the Sault to trade at the British post on Drummond
                    Island, Schoolcraft gave presents only to those Ojibwa who could prove that they had not traded with
                    the British.20 Given the credit obligations in the fur trade, where traders made
                    loans to Indians each fall in the form of supplies for the winter hunt and took their payments the
                    following summer in the form of peltry, Schoolcraft's plan flew in the face of tradition. The Ojibwa
                    took their debt obligations seriously and were bound by custom to pay them. Having accepted presents
                    and other acts of generosity from the British in the past, the Ojibwa believed themselves obliged to
                    maintain friendship and association with them.21 Thus custom subverted
                    Schoolcraft's orders. Although realities of the Indian trade defeated Schoolcraft's simplistic
                    scheme, the new regulations did cause tensions. In the eyes of many, Schoolcraft's action appeared
                    petty and spiteful rather than generous.
            
               devoted to these amusements, in which I never made much advance, would be better given up to
                        reading, or some inquiry from which I might hope to derive advantage. An incident this evening
                        impressed me with this truth, and I came home with a resolution that one source of them should
                        no longer engross a moment of my time." Ibid., 141-42.
               
                  19
                        Ibid., 176, 130.
               
                  20 Henry Rowe Schoolcraft to Lewis Cass, July 18, 1822, Records of the 
                            Michigan
                         Superintendency of Indian Affairs, 1814-51, Roll 65, Letters Sent (National
                        Archives, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.).
               
                  21 Bieder, Native American Communities, 134.
            
            
            
               DRUMMOND ISLAND, 1820s
               Reproduced from John J. Bigsby, The Shoe and the Canoe (
                            London
                        , 1850)
            
            
            Other Americans who followed the army and Schoolcraft to Sault Ste. Marie—government
                    blacksmiths, saloon-and storekeepers, missionaries—also rejected the customs and
                    enjoyments of the old residents. They did not share the easy rapport between the old settlers at the
                    Sault and the Indian and mixed-blood population. If the feelings of Schoolcraft and the missionaries
                    are representative, there was a particular antipathy to Ojibwa religious ceremonies.
            According to Schoolcraft, "an American is apt, either to take no pains to conceal his
                    disgust for their [Ojibwa] superstitions, or to speak out bluntly against them."22 This antipathy also extended to the New Year's custom of going door to door
                    singing and requesting drinks, or as Schoolcraft noted with disdain, "the humblest
                    individual is expected to make his appearance in the routine, and 'has his claims [of a drink]
                    allowed.' The French custom of salutation prevails."23
            
            Recognizing that their interests and goals were different and being insensitive to or ignorant of the
                    customs of the old settlers, the new American arrivals began to shape their own community based on
                    the laws and regulations issued from 
                        Detroit
                     and the customs that prevailed in the world they had left in the East. Built into these
                    regulations was a dislike of people of mixed race, Catholics, and Indians. Within a decade and a
                    half after the War of 1812, the recent arrivals controlled society at the Sault. Under governmental
                    authority, which the fort symbolically represented, Americans manipulated laws that shortly resulted
                    in the virtual disfranchisement of most of the old residents.24 The settlers
                    resisted in various ways but to little success. No pattern of collective behavior sprang up.
                    Instead, different interest groups and individuals experimented with approaches to resistance that
                    drew upon traditional patterns of behavior. These forms of attempted resistance can be clustered
                    under three headings: militancy, ingratiation, and evasion.
            Overt aggression, or militancy, proved ineffectual. Most of the traders recognized the futility of
                    resistance, but there were numerous Ojibwa who refused to admit their defeat in the recent war and
                    remained eager to resist American encroachment. In 1815 and 1816 they threatened to attack the
                    American soldiers visiting the Sault, and in 1820 when Lewis Cass, governor of 
                        Michigan
                     Territory, arrived to negotiate the land transactions for the future site of Fort
                    Brady, a confrontation nearly occurred. Each time, it was difficult for the cooler heads in the
                    community to keep the Ojibwa from launching an attack.25
            
            
               
                  22 Schoolcraft, Personal Memoirs, 101.
               
                  23
                        Ibid., 137.
               
                  24 Clarence E. Carter, ed., Territorial Papers of the 
                                United States
                            : Vol. XI, 
                     
                                Michigan
                             Territory, 1820-1829 (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1943), 730.
               
                  25 Lewis Cass to George Boyd, August 20, 1821, copy, George Johnston
                        Papers (Bayliss Community Library, Sault Ste. Marie); Johnston,
                        "Reminiscences," 608-11.
            
            
            Recognizing the utter futility of confrontation, several traders, such as John Johnston,
                    Jean-Baptiste Nolin, William Holliday, and others, interceded to dissuade the Ojibwa from violence.
                    By so doing, these traders hoped to curry favor with the Americans.26
                    Ingratiation became a major alternative to aggression in meeting American challenges to the social
                    and economic affairs of Sault Ste. Marie. The most adroit practitioner of this form of resistance
                    proved to be John Johnston. Repeatedly he entertained and offered hospitality to official government
                    parties visiting the Sault. He provided a building to agent Schoolcraft for use as an Indian office,
                    let him board with his family, and—perhaps operating on the traditional assumption that
                    kinship ties would prove useful—approved of his daughter's marriage to Schoolcraft.27
            
            This approach did not always prove as useful as its advocates expected. Despite good deeds, neither
                    Nolin nor Johnston was allowed to engage in the interior fur trade, and both were forced to restrict
                    their activities to the Sault. As Johnston told his son in 1819, "I wrote to Governor Cass
                    to know if from my length of residence in this country I might have liberty to send into the
                    interior. I received his answer… in which he mentions unless I chose to become a citizen
                    under Jay's treaty I could not have the liberty of trading beyond the established Post, therefore to
                    this Post I shall restrict myself until the Almighty in Mercy enables me to quit their Territories
                        forever."28 Johnston was never allowed to trade in the interior
                    again. Neither did his many kindnesses move American authorities to act favorably on his claims
                    against the government for war damages or expedite his appeal to let his son George, who was born on
                    the American side of the Sault, engage in the trade.29
            
            There was, of course, an alternative open to Johnston, and that was to remove to 
                        Canada
                    . Before the war Johnston had every intention of doing so, but age, the loss of his
                    western trading territory, and the destruction of his property during the war left him financially
                    ruined and prevented such a move. Others, including Shin-guakongse, or the Little Pine, who planned
                    the aborted attack on Cass in 1820, did choose this evasive alternative.30 Nolin
                    and his 
                  
                     26 See note 25.
                  
                     27 Schoolcraft, Personal Memoirs, 90-93;
                            "Grandfather John Johnston's History, written by Archdeacon McMurray, Rector of
                            Niagara-on-the-Lake, 
                                Ontario
                            ," typescript, George Johnston Papers.
                  
                     28 John Johnston to George Johnston, January 12,1819, George Johnston
                            Papers (Burton Historical Collection, 
                                Detroit
                             Public Library). In another letter written on January 15, 1817, John Johnston
                            wrote to his son, "The Americans are going to pass a bill that will entirely
                            exclude all British subjects from the Indian Trade so that what is to become of us in the
                            future—God alone knows. I fear there is no other alternative, but to become
                            American Citizens or to abandon the trade and Country…." Ibid.
                  
                  
                     29 John Johnston to George Johnston, [1819 or 1820] George Johnston
                            Papers (Bayliss Community Library).
                  
                     30 Johann G. Kohl, Kitchi-Gami: Life Among the Lake
                                Superior Ojibway (1860; reprint, 
                                St. Paul
                            , Minn., 1985), 378-79.
               
                     sons, also unable to trade without becoming citizens, sold their
                    extensive tracts of land at the Sault and removed to Lord Selkirk's Red River colony in 
                        Canada
                    .31 Others followed Nolin's example. Some like Johnston's oldest
                    son, Lewis, elected to remain in 
                        Canada
                     rather than return home and live under American rule.32 Some
                    traders sought to avoid American trade restrictions through an early example of off-shore trading.
                    With the British still claiming Drummond Island, several traders, including Johnston, established
                    posts there and thus evaded for a while American regulations.33
            
            Removal to 
                        Canada
                     was but one strategy; another was simply ignoring American laws and regulations, a path
                    taken by many Ojibwa and 
                        Ottawa
                     who continued to visit Drummond Island much to the consternation of Schoolcraft and
                    Cass. There the tribes were able to obtain better trade goods and liquor in exchange for furs and
                    information on American activity. In this way tribes carried liquor and British influence back into
                    the Lake Superior country despite Schoolcraft's efforts to stem both activities among the western
                    tribes. Cass and Schoolcraft were perhaps paranoid about British influence and intentions. They
                    moved quickly to implement policies curtailing such influence, policies that served only to
                    aggravate the division between the Americans and the old residents. For example, Schoolcraft, who
                    believed that many voyageurs and traders were really British, denied them permits to enter the
                    interior. He was probably correct in his suspicions regarding their political allegiances, but the
                    result of his policy led to greater friction between him and the old residents at the Sault.34
            
            After 1822, with the completion of Fort Brady, the community of Sault Ste. Marie began the slow
                    political process of redefining itself. The new community emerged in incremental steps expressed
                    through actions, symbols, and institutions. Whereas before the war the social polarities at the
                    Sault were between the haves and have-nots, after 1822 they were between Americans and old
                    residents. Standing as it did for the extension of Yankee civilization into the wilderness, the fort
                    represented the new American Sault. Johnston's trading post and the dwellings of the mixed-bloods
                    and Ojibwa symbolized the older Sault. In this polarization the new arrivals derogatively defined
                    mixed-bloods as blacks, half-breeds, or Indians.35 By 
                  
                     31 Chaput, "The 'Misses Nolin' of Red River," 14-15.
                  
                     32 John J. Bigsby, The Shoe and the Canoe (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1850), II, 128.
                  
                     33 John Johnston to George Johnston, October 30,1819, George Johnston
                            Papers (Burton Historical Collection); MacDonald, "Commerce, Civility and Old Sault
                            Ste. Marie" (Autumn, 1981), 24.
                  
                     34 Henry Rowe Schoolcraft to Lewis Cass, July 22, 1822, Records of the 
                                Michigan
                             Superintendency of Indian Affairs, 1814-51.
                  
                     35 For evidence of such views see William Aitkins to Ramsey Crooks,
                            November 4,1836, American Fur Company Papers, no. 2119, reel 24 (
                                New York
                             Historical Society, 
                                New York
                            ); George Johnston to Walter Lowie, June 22, 1842, George Johnston Letterbook
                            (Bentley Historical Library, University of 
                        Michigan, Ann Arbor
                     );
                            George
               
                     the late 1820s, as John Johnston's son George discovered, there
                    was little opportunity for an educated person of mixed race in Sault Ste. Marie. While John Johnston
                    lived, he still commanded some respect; after his death his children (especially the males)
                    commanded none. Once the elite, the Johnstons were now just another family of
                        "half-breeds."36
            
            In social and political behavior Americans were oriented toward Mackinac, 
                        Detroit
                    , and 
                        Washington
                    . Town meetings, elections, courts, and the territorial legislature stood for
                    civilization and progress. So also mission activity, evening prayer meetings, temperance societies,
                    marriage to white women, schools, frame houses, and churches marked the advent of a true American
                    settlement. For the old residents few political or economic roles were available in the new Sault,
                    and what remained of their old social life shifted to the Canadian Sault.37
            
            The Sault of the Americans and the Sault of the old residents presented contrasting policies of
                    development. The first was entrepreneurial and individualistic. The latter was seigneurial and
                    collective. The Sault of the old settlers was out of step with the ethos of the times. Built around
                    the fur trade—which suffered a major depression in the early 1820s and was by that time
                    already in decline at the Sault—the world of old Sault Ste. Marie was entering its last
                    days.
            The old inhabitants did not welcome the Americans and resisted the new life that their arrival
                    represented. Through various actions—sometimes militant, sometimes evasive, sometimes
                    ingratiating—they tried to maintain control of a world slipping away and to make sense of
                    the changes that surrounded them. Little survived of this old world except in weakened form in
                    marginal segments of the population.
            When a German "ethnologist" traveling through the Sault in the 1850s asked a
                    voyageur to sing some of the famous voyageur songs, the man responded with a shrug that those songs
                    were no longer sung. According to him, too many Americans now traveled with the voyageurs, and when
                    a voyageur started to sing, no one knew the words. So the singing stopped. When this same
                    ethnologist asked an elderly Ojibwa woman to tell some of the old stories, she replied: 
                        I have lost my memory. The Ojibbeways have all lost their memory. The Americans have made
                            them weak. Our people do not talk so much about their own affairs now as they used to do.
                            They no longer feel the same pleasure in telling the old stories, and they are being
                            forgotten and the traditions and fables rooted out. You often ask after 
                        Johnston to the Reverend Peter Dougherty, June 29, 1842, ibid. This issue is
                                    discussed more extensively in Robert E. Bieder, "Power Without Glory: The
                                    Role of Mixed-Bloods in Indian-White Relations" (Paper presented at the
                                    American Studies Association annual meeting, 
                                        Minneapolis
                                    , September, 1979).
                        
                           36 Bieder, "Power Without Glory."
                        
                           37 Carter, Territorial Papers, XI,
                                730-31.
                     
                             them, but you seldom find any one who can give you the
                            right answer. Our nation is fallen; and this came quite suddenly, since the…
                            "Long Knives" entered our country.
                     To this Ojibwa woman the days of the French and the British represented the "Good
                    Old Days" and the arrival of the Americans signified only ruin.38
            
            Social, economic, and political revolutions similar to those at Sault Ste. Marie were occurring at
                    other trading places in the Old Northwest, in places like Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Green Bay, 
                        Prairie
                     du Chien, and 
                        Chicago
                    .39 The War of 1812 proved a revolution that the old residents in
                    these frontier settlements were unable to withstand and to which they were unprepared to adapt. At
                    the Sault, within two decades after the war, most of the old ways were forgotten; the old residents
                    were largely supplanted by the incoming Americans, and a new Sault Ste. Marie sat on the south bank
                    of the St. Mary's River.
            
               
                  38 Recorded in Kohl, Kitchi-Gami, 261, 367.
               
                  39 Bieder, Native American Communities, 148.
            
         
         
         
            
               LEVI H. FAUCETT
               
            
            
            Paoli and Placerville: Correspondence of a Hoosier in the Gold Rush
            
                    Anne Bruner Eales
                    ∗
                
            "If hell lay to the west, Americans would cross heaven to get there," declared a
                    popular saying in the 
                        United States
                     during the early nineteenth century. After the discovery of gold at Sutter's Mill on
                    January 24, 1848, Forty-Niners were prepared to reverse the proverb and cross hell to get to 
                        California
                    .
            On March 21, 1850, Levi H. Faucett of Paoli, 
                        Orange County
                    , Indiana, headed west, leaving behind his farm and his family: his pregnant wife,
                    Louisa Stone Faucett; his four-year-old son, Henry; and a two-year-old son, Charles. Although his
                    father, George 
                        Washington
                     Faucett, Jr., had once been a minister who preached about heavenly streets of gold,
                    Levi apparently was a believer in earthly treasures, and he did not go to search for them alone. Of
                    George Faucett's immediate family, one son and the husbands of four of his eight daughters went to 
                        California
                    . Louisa's brother, Lorenzo D. (Lee) Stone, also went with Levi, and the men wrote home
                    from towns such as Whiskey Slide, Hang Town, Peppermint Gulch, and Murphy's Defeat that they had met
                    several neighbors from 
                        Orange County
                    . Among them were Joseph and Albert 
                        Hamilton
                    , Logan Bradford, George Holaday, Samuel and Marley Clark, John Cather, and Wesley
                    Johnson. All of these men, who once might have been satisfied with a crop of golden corn, were
                    probably inspired to go west by the same sort of frenzy that seized a young man who spied the riches
                    in the pack of a returning Forty-Niner.
            
                    … unbidden my legs performed some entirely new movements of polka steps—I
                        took several—houses were too small for me to stay in—; I was soon in the
                        streets in search of necessary outfits; piles of gold rose up before me at every step; castles
                        of marble, dazzling the eye with their rich appliances… myriads of fair virgins
                        contending for my love—were among the fancies of my fevered imagination. The
                        Rothschilds, Girards, and Astors appeared to me but poor people; in short I had a very violent
                        attack of gold fever.1
               
                
            
               
                  ∗ Anne Bruner Eales is a writer and editor for the National
                        Archives and Records Administration, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C. She is the author of Army Wives on the Frontier: Living by the
                            Bugles (Boulder, Colo., 1996). Levi II. Faucett is her great-great-grandfather. His
                        correspondence and pictures are in her possession.
               
                  1 Quoted in John Walton Caughey, The 
                                California
                             Gold Rush (Berkeley, 1975), 22-23.
            
            
            Unfortunately, none of the Faucett family returned to Indiana with the envisioned fortune, but
                    several letters from Levi, and a few from two of his brothers-in-law, Joseph Rhoades and Lee Stone,
                    reveal that the men did find aspects of life on the frontier rewarding. Levi's letters suggest that
                    this thirty-seven-year-old farmer, much older than most Forty-Niners, considered the chance for
                    adventure as enticing as the lure of gold. Until almost the end of his stay in 
                        California
                    , the only wealth the family received from him was a growing packet of letters, rich in
                    the details of life in the gold fields. The responses from his father and from his brother, Abel,
                    make it increasingly clear that the Faucetts did not consider the letters satisfactory compensation
                    for Levi's failure to remain in Indiana and support his wife and children. The family may well have
                    agreed with one philosopher of the time who believed that participants in the gold rush were
                    "temporarily or permanently escaping home responsibilities or
                        expectations…."2
            
            When Levi decided to go west in the spring of 1850, he could have gone by ship to Panama, made a
                    five-day trip across the isthmus, and then taken passage on to 
                        California
                    . Easterners, well acquainted with the sea, often chose that route if they could afford
                    it. A ticket from 
                        New York City
                     to 
                        San Francisco
                     could cost as much as $300 for a cabin or $150 for teerage.3 Despite the expense, traveling by ship was a popular means of transportation
                    because it was the fastest route to the gold fields—if the complicated connections went
                    well and disease did not kill you on the way. When they arrived in Panama, sweating men "in 
                        India
                     rubber and oilcloth suits…, armed with pistols, guns, knives, umbrellas, and
                    life-preservers" negotiated with natives to take their "drinking-cups, pots,
                    kettles, forks, spoons, and air-beds, with stores of meat, bread, brandy and pills" up the
                    Chagres River in a dugout canoe.4 At the head of navigation travelers had to
                    switch to pack animals for the remainder of the trip through the jungle to Panama City. One man
                    recorded that the "howling of the monkeys & chattering of parrots" formed
                    a chorus in the trees, while another wrote his wife about "groping through the forest, with
                    my red shirt, straw hat & linen pants… covered with mud" from tropical
                        downpours.5 Some never completed the journey across the isthmus because
                    porters absconded with supplies or mosquitoes carrying yellow fever or malaria brought greater
                    disaster. Even those who reached the port found a new challenge as space on ships headed for 
                        California
                     became increasingly scarce. At one 
                  
                     2 Quoted in Paula 
                                Mitchell
                             Marks, Precious Dust: The American Gold Rush Era, 1848-1900 (
                                New York
                            , 1994), 29.
                  
                     3 Caughey, 
                        
                                    California
                                 Gold Rush, 69; Malcolm J. Rohrbough, Days of Gold: The 
                                    California
                                 Gold Rush and the American Nation (Berkeley, 1997), 59.
                  
                     4 Quoted in Caughey, 
                        
                                    California
                                 Gold Rush, 61.
                  
                     5 Quoted in Rohrbough, Days of Gold, 59-60.
               
                     time seven hundred prospective passengers used bribery, ticket
                    scalping, and a lottery to compete for 250 berths. Fights ensued as everyone was frantic to claim a
                    space, afraid that the gold would be gone before they arrived in the diggings.6
            
            Those who were more familiar with the sea or more concerned about disease chose to avoid Panama and
                    sail around Cape Horn. The trip of approximately eighteen thousand nautical miles could take up to
                    eight months, a definite disadvantage to those eager to get to the gold fields. To work their way
                    south, many ships sailed so far east that their decks and spars were coated with red dust from
                    Africa. As men shivered in the Antarctic cold and sampled goonie birds, gulls, and albatross, ships
                    could take from a week to forty days just to round the Horn, depending on the weather. For captains
                    who tried to shorten the journey by sailing through the Straits of Magellan, a sudden storm might
                    drive the vessel aground on shores where natives were not always friendly.7
            
            Whether one chose to round Cape Horn or brave the dangers of Panama, traveling by sea presented risks
                    that midwesterner Levi Faucett might not have been prepared to take, especially if he had heard of
                    incidents such as the 223 passengers lost when the Golden Gate caught fire at sea
                    or the grounding of the Union two hundred miles south of San Diego on July 5
                    because its helmsman had celebrated with too much whiskey on the Fourth of July.8 Besides, Levi was already in Paoli and probably would have considered it a waste of precious
                    time to reach the West by going east.
            Like many of the Forty-Niners, Faucett was a farmer. He already had oxen and could buy a vehicle from
                    his brother, who was a wagonmaker. Several books, newspapers, and lecturers offered information and
                    advice to men who were headed to the gold fields. Levi might well have purchased a book by Sidney
                    Roberts entitled To Emigrants to the Gold Region: A Treatise, Showing the Best Way to 
                            California
                        
                or for twenty-five cents read the eighty pages of The Gold
                        Regions of 
                            California
                        
                by G. G. Foster. Men in 
                        Paris
                     ordered the Manuel des emigrants de Californie, those in Leipzig
                    devoured Das Goldland Kalifornien, gentlemen in 
                        London
                     perused The Gold-Seeker's Manual, and "mates" in
                    Sydney studied The Digger's Handbook.9
            
            More likely Levi read an article in the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Courier that explained the various land routes to 
                        California
                     and gave advice on the supplies needed for the trip. The newspaper recommended that
                    each person take one hundred fifty pounds of flour and the same amount of bacon, twenty-five pounds
                    of coffee, thirty of sugar, fifty to seventy-five of crackers, and varying amounts of rice, dried
                    fruit, 
                  
                     6 Caughey, 
                        
                                    California
                                 Gold Rush, 62-66.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 77-88.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 74.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 50-55.
               
                     lard, salt, and pepper.10 Many of these
                    items were staples readily available in a farm community. A group similar to Levi's also carried
                    eight to ten hams, four pounds of tea, and one keg each of vinegar, pickles, and brandy. Additional
                    supplies might include three pounds of rough nails, forty feet of rope, ten pounds of soap, ten
                    pounds of gunpowder, two thousand percussion caps, one quart of #6 shot, one gallon of tar, one
                    quart of turpentine, two camp kettles, three water buckets, paper, pins, spools of thread, pens, and
                    a bottle of ink.11
            
            The gunpowder and brandy served two purposes because both were popular medicines on the trail west.
                    Gunpowder was a favorite treatment for cholera, the disease that most often struck those crossing
                    the prairie, and brandy obviously could be used for medicinal purposes. Some groups also carried in
                    their medicine chests one-half pound of ginger, one-half ounce of quinine, three pounds of soda, one
                    quart of liniment, two ounces of ammonia, one pint of castor oil, and two ounces of opium.12 All of these would be needed if cholera struck, and one traveler came to
                    realize that "instead of turning up the golden sands of the 
                        Sacramento
                    , the spade of the adventurer was first used to bury the remains of a
                        companion."13 Members of a 
                        New York
                     group who left home young and eager described how one of their company, a victim of
                    cholera, vomited so intensively that the veins in his face burst, "his broad
                    forehead… marked with the blue and purple streaks of blood that stood under the skin and
                    down both sides of the nose…."14 It was considered a
                    blessing if the patient took only two days to die. Even at the end of the journey, one in five of
                    the young miners died within six months of their arrival in 
                        California
                    . The mortality rate was so high from violence and disease that life insurance companies
                    refused to write policies for Californians and raised the premiums for those already covered.15
            
            While Faucett did not record what medicine or other supplies he took from 
                        Orange County
                    , he carried them by riverboat on the first part of the trip. In a letter to Louisa on
                    April 24, 1850, Levi wrote: 
                  
                     
                        we Shiped for 
                                        St. Louis
                                     at N. Albany on the 21st of March and landed at St Louis on the 24th of
                                    the same month and after we had binn thier one day and night… we left on
                                    bord the Duroc for 
                                        St. Joseph
                                     the 26th and that night we lost one of the Carter oxen overbord and the
                                    captin refused to pay us for him and we refused to pay him our pasage and at length
                                    we compramised the matter and he paid us ten dollars for the Steer and we paid our
                                    pasage to St Joseph…[.]
                     
                  
               
                    
                  
                     10 Vardis Fisher and Opal Laurel Holmes, Gold Rushes and
                                Mining Camps of the Early American West (
                        Caldwell, Idaho
                     ,
                            1968), 46.
                  
                     11 Herbert Eaton, The Overland Trail to 
                                    California
                                 in 1852 (
                                New York
                            , 1974), 7.
                  
                            12
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     13 Quoted in Caughey, 
                        
                                    California
                                 Gold Rush, 106.
                  
                     14 Quoted in Marks, Precious Dust, 56.
                  
                     15 David T. Courtwright, "Violence in America," American Heritage, XLVII (September, 1996), 40.
               
                     In a note to his father from 
                        St. Louis
                     on March 26,1850, Levi told him, "It will cost us about one hundred dollars to
                    get from 
                        Albany
                     to 
                        St. Joseph
                     We will get their [
                        St. Joseph
                    ] in about five [more] days if no bad luck." In his April letter to his wife,
                    Levi stated that his health had "binn tolerable good since I left and I am in good
                    spirits…." He was especially pleased because gossip said that "the news
                    is flatering from the mines."
            By May 5, 1850, when he began a running letter home, Levi had advanced from 
                        St. Joseph
                     to a Catholic mission on the Kansas River. Although he did not
                    mention it, he probably had to pay the usual toll of five dollars for a wagon and fifty cents for
                    oxen to cross the Missouri River at 
                        St. Joseph
                    .16 A year earlier, in May of 1849, approximately ten thousand had
                    made that crossing.17 Only two ferries were available, and fights broke out as
                    hundreds of wagons jockeyed for position in line. Challenges were issued and men were killed over
                    the right to be first aboard the dirty and decidedly unseaworthy 
                        Missouri
                     scows.18
            
            As did many Forty-Niners, Levi's party formed a company of wagons traveling together, and Levi was
                    elected sergeant. These quasi-military groups selected leaders who would choose campsites or
                    establish a rotation for standing watch. One 
                        New York
                     doctor reportedly found himself taking orders from his former coachman. A few groups
                    were joint stock ventures bankrolled by eastern merchants who preferred to hire proxies to do their
                    digging. Desperate for funding, even Notre Dame University sent four Holy Cross brothers and three
                    laymen to search for a golden endwnment.19
            
            Despite all the study, planning, and organization, the first few days on the trail were always
                    difficult because of inexperienced drivers, unbroken teams, and poorly balanced loads. Stampedes
                    were frequent, as Levi soon discovered. "May the 6th had a Stamped all the teams but ours
                    and Mahans run I hapened to be cloase by ours and cetched the leader by the horn & bow of
                    the Yoak and dubled them round no damage traveled about four miles and had a nother
                    Stamped… [.]" By May 15 three of the wagons in Faucett's group had turned back,
                    and there were only five wagons and nineteen men remaining in the party. Levi described an increased
                    feeling of isolation, but it lasted only until May 20 when the group arrived at the Platt River.
                    "I expect there is five hundred wagons in this bottom," he wrote. Another
                    Forty-Niner who reached this point in his journey west was not as pleased to see so many people.
                    Both banks were lined with "a solid mass of wagon," he related, and "men
                    digging graves on each side of the river; men dying in their wagons, hallooing 
                  
                     16 Eaton, The Overland Trail, 36.
                  
                     17 Ezra Bowen, ed., The Old West: The Forty-Niners (
                                New York
                            , 1974), 53.
                  
                     18 Caughey, 
                        
                                    California
                                 Gold Rush, 100-101.
                  
                     19 Marks, Precious Dust, 22-23.
               
                     and crying and cramping with the cholera, women screaming and
                    hallooing and praying."20 If Levi saw such a sight, he did not mention
                    it to his wife, possibly for her peace of mind. On May 22, twelve miles east of Fort Kearney, the
                    group met an express rider, and Levi sent his letter on its way "to the States."
            Two weeks later, on June 5,1850, Faucett wrote to his parents from "18 miles below Fort
                    Laramie" and approximately three hundred miles west of Fort Kearney. He told them that
                    since he had "nothing of very greate importance to write to you I will give you a short
                    scetch of our travels from Fort Kearney to this place." He wrote of a Sioux village they
                    had passed, which had two hundred to three hundred "wigwams," and commented that
                    Court House Rock resembled the statehouse in Jefferson City. He explained that he had not gone with
                    friends to see Chimney Rock because he was "almost wore out walking." Levi had
                    been struggling through deep sand all day and stated that if he got rich enough in 
                        California
                     he would purchase a horse. (Although Faucett did not know it at the time, he would have
                    had to be very rich because just renting a horse in 
                        California
                    , cost eight dollars a day.21) The next morning others were walking
                    with him because during the night a hailstorm had driven off a number of mules from a camp near
                    Scotts Bluff. When his party arrived at Fort Laramie on June 6, Faucett saw evidence that thousands
                    were moving west. He explained to his parents that he had gone 
                  
                     
                        to the ofice and regestered our names. There had pasd the Fort up to last night June
                                    the 6th 12,988 men [,] 147 Woman[,] 128 children, 3625 Wagons, 12000 Horses, 3627
                                    mules, 4636 Oxen, 561 cows, They make out a list evry night of what has passd thu,
                                    emigrants are going in evry way amagenable I even saw an old man and a little boy
                                    about eight or ten years old packing across afoot. It is astonishing to see the
                                    property that is throne away the road is strewen with Wagons & wagon irons,
                                    trunks, Gun barrels, log chains, old cloaths, Boots & Shoes, cooking stoves,
                                    tin pans &c&c.
                     
                  
               Levi told his parents that the only problem he had was a lack of flour, a need he hoped to
                    remedy at a Mormon community. He stated that he expected to be in 
                        California
                     by the first of August. In closing, Faucett reminded his mother and father "to
                    be certain to attend to my affairs" back home.
            The next letter Levi sent to Indiana was mailed on August 25, 1850, from Hang Town, 
                        California
                    . After apologizing to Louisa for the long delay in writing, Faucett assured his wife
                    that he missed her, the children, and peach cobbler. The thought of food was not surprising
                    considering that he "was weighed to day and onley weigh 150 lbs before I left home my
                    weight was 184 lbs so you see I have lost 34 lbs in weight and I do not think I ever will be as
                    Stought as I was." John Osborn, a family friend who wrote to George Faucett about a similar
                    trip to 
                        Oregon
                     in 1851, related that the grass was 
                  
                     20 Quoted in ibid., 56.
                  
                     21 Rohrbough, Days of Gold, 130.
               
                    
                    
                  LEVI FAUCETTT TO HIS PARENTS, JUNE 7,1850
                  Letter in author's possession
                scarce and water bad. "I cannot say much about the sufering on the 
                        California
                     road but I am shure language must fail to describe it… there was sickness
                    and deth to be witnessed in many forms and on the latter end of the road ther was a grate many of
                    the emigrants sufered for the want of provisions…." Thirst often tormented the
                    travelers, and one reported that "tongues would be swollen, our lips crack, and a crust
                    would form on our tongue that could not be  removed."22 Insects came "by legion" and wasps sometimes colonized tent
                    canvases in such numbers that they either "multiplied incredibly, or else gathered recruits
                    from all directions…."23 Bitten or stung faces swelled until
                    individuals could barely see. The sun blinded, hailstones pummeled, and lightning set prairie fires
                    around the camps.
            Even simple, daily tasks such as cooking and sewing were a challenge on the trail, and one man wrote
                    that there was "a heightened sensitivity to the arduousness of women's work." The
                    Forty-Niners struggled to repair irreplaceable shirts and trousers and gathered buffalo chips to
                    fuel their cooking fires. Until they learned the real art of preparing food over an open campfire,
                    the men must have eaten many scorched meals. Washing clothes was considered the hardest chore, and
                    one fellow was delighted when he returned to the stream where he was doing his laundry to find that
                    his clothes had floated away in the current. Many men resolved the laundry situation by never
                    changing clothes from the time they left home until the time they reached 
                        California
                    .24
            
            From the gold fields Levi's first letter to Louisa closed with what would become his standard advice:
                    "do the best you can untill I return…." Unfortunately, none of her
                    letters survive so it is difficult to gauge her reaction to his absence. Her feelings may well have
                    been similar to those of Mary Elizabeth (Lizzie) Wilson, her sisters, Annie and Charlotte, and
                    brother, Jamie, when their father, James Wilson, Jr., of Keene, 
                        New Hampshire
                    , suddenly went west. The former congressman left the young people, three of whom were
                    teenagers, to deal with foreclosure notices and a mountain of debts that it would take a gold strike
                    to pay. Only six months after his departure, Annie wrote to Wilson that Lizzie had "grown
                    older, and actually sick, since you left us, and really seems to droop under it all." Later
                    Lizzie told her father that "anxieties and troubles have nearly destroyed us."25
            
            In a January 13, 1851, letter to his son, George reported that it had been necessary for Louisa to
                    sell most of the farm stock because she could no longer care for it. Since she had fired the latest
                    hired hand, "an unprincipaled scamp," only she and the children were left on the
                    farm. George assured Levi that Louisa had worked hard to keep everything in order but acknowledged
                    that she had 
                  
                     
                        truely had a hard time since you left… there is not any Person on the
                                    Place but her and the Children, She keeps the Child Tied in its little Chair before
                                    the Stove, & we are afraid every day that the little Fellows will burn up
                                    the house[,] themselves in it, while their Mother is atending to the Stock. I have
                                    went down nearly every week to 
                              
                                 22 Quoted in Marks, Precious Dust,
                                            64-65.
                              
                                 23 Mrs. Orsemus Bronson Boyd, Cavalry
                                                Life in Tent and Field (1894; reprint, Lincoln, Nebr., 1982), 62.
                              
                                 24 Marks, Precious Dust, 67.
                              
                                 25 Quoted in Nancy Coffey Heffernan and Ann Page
                                            Stecker, Sisters of Fortune… (
                                                Hanover
                                            , N.H., 1993), 42, 174.
                           
                                     see how she is geting along, We killed on
                                    Christmas day 6 hoggs for her they weighed 1000 lbs, I salted it for her &
                                    all is doing well there is nothing lacking but you on the farm
                     
                  
               
            
            In a letter written on November 9,1851, about eighteen months after his son's departure for 
                        California
                    , George reported that Louisa had sold six of their hogs, leaving ten,
                    "& them is enough for her to atteng [attend] to, she carryes all the water up into
                    the Corner of the Clover field from the river, about 8 Buckets per day, She also car-ryes all that
                    the[y] use at the house from the river, the spring has not run any in Four months [.]"
                    Another man who had been hired to help her on the farm 
                  
                     
                        Says he cant stay with Louisa any longer than he gets the corn gathered So you can
                                    understand that she will have another Lonesom Hard winter… She suffered
                                    last winter by haveing no fire only what was in the stove, She now has the Stove set
                                    to one side of the fire Place & keeps a Fire in the harth, I will now say to
                                    you that she has done all that she was able to do, to keep every thing in its
                                    Propper Place, in a word she has got along first rate, & all without a
                                    murmer[.]
                     
                  
               
            
            Levi's father also reported in the November letter that twelve window panes were broken in Louisa's
                    house, the roof on the barn was leaking, and the fences were falling down; however, Levi probably
                    read and reread only the section in which George reported that "Azer Wilson got home [from 
                        California
                    ] the 12th day of July, I think he brot about $5,000, he is working as hard
                    in the shop as if he had not one dollar, he made his pile on feather river. When he first went there
                    he made gold verry slow, but his luck became more favorable and he made a pretty smart fortune and
                    then come home."
            Although inspired by such stories and excited by the journey, Levi, at least at first, often thought
                    about events back home. His letters are full of references to the wheat crop, orders for the hired
                    hands, and complaints about not hearing from Louisa. "I cannot give you any instructions
                    [about the farm until I hear from you," he wrote. Despite that statement, he told her,
                    perhaps in response to his father's comment about the stove and hearth, to "keep things in
                    good order and be careful with fire as the barn is so close to the house." When he learned
                    that a hired man was getting married, Levi assumed that he would "still attend to my
                    business [.] If he does not however you will do the best you can as I cannot say what would be
                    best—I was in hop[e]s I would be able to send you some money by this time but my chances
                    has been bad[.]" He could not send her funds, he said, because "I fear I shall not
                    have anuff to take us to the southern mines. As soon as I get some to spair I will send you a draft,
                    probably not untill next Spring."
            Levi explained repeatedly to the struggling Louisa that he also could not provide any support because
                    of the high cost of living in "the diggings." He informed her in a letter from 
                        Sacramento
                     that he had to pay sixteen dollars a week for his "bord" in a place
                    so filthy that he was "eat up with the flies at night." Although
                        Faucett did  not single out food prices, a fellow miner
                    recorded that he and his partner paid forty-three dollars for a breakfast of a box of sardines, some
                    hard bread, butter, cheese, and two bottles of ale.26 In an area where fresh
                    fruit was scarce, miners paid one dollar for unripened pears hanging on a tree in Coloma.
                    "The purchaser would select his fruit, tag it with his name, and wait hopefully for it to
                        mature."27 Given a choice between a bag of gold and a basket of
                    apples sitting on a rock, thieves in the 
                        California
                     gold fields almost always chose the food.28
            
            In addition to the high cost of living, Faucett reported to his wife that "the miners [were]
                    making no more than… three to five dollars per day." The largest nugget he
                    himself had found "weighed ninteen dollars." He informed Louisa that he no longer
                    wanted to "accumilate greate wealth" but just wanted "a nuff gold to
                    enable me to clear myself of debt and I suppose I shall have to stay a way from home about two years
                    from present." Faucett acknowledged that he could probably go into business and make about
                    one hundred dollars a month. Levi Strauss, who did so, accumulated a fortune selling jeans, while
                    Philip Armour started his meat-packing empire with a butcher shop in a mining camp. Others
                    accumulated wealth by providing the miners with "necessities," such as liquor,
                    tobacco, gambling, and prostitute.29 The Indiana farmer decided that he could
                    not open a business in a "place whear so much vise and wickedness prevail."
                    Faucett somehow rationalized that it was more acceptable to live where "heaps upon heaps of
                    money [are] piled up on the gambling tables… every night" if he were mining for
                    gold.
            Levi refused to give up and go home. On November 24,1850, he wrote his father, 'You can see from this
                    that I have made nothing hear since I have binn in 
                        California
                    . If I do not make money anuff between this and next Spring to take me home and pay my
                    debts I shall stay until next fall and then come home if I only have money anuff to take me. I want
                    you to tell my crediters to be patient—-I may be one of the lucky ones this
                    winter." On January 13, 1851, George responded, 'We are Sorrow that you have made nothing
                    yet, & that your Prospects are not Flatering, We are in great hopes that you will come home
                    in the Spring, I will say to you, that if you only have enough to Bare your expenses home come,
                    & there is no danger but you can soon make enough to Pay your debts, I see nothing that is
                    flatering from Calefornia to induce any man to Stay there." Pride and a gambler's optimism
                    probably kept Levi and the others digging in the gold fields. When Lucius Fairchild's parents urged
                    the young Forty-Niner to return, he responded, "Just think to have it said that Lush
                    [Lucius] come home with out making anything and those Mutton Headed
                    
                  
                     26 Caughey, 
                        
                                    California
                                 Gold Rush, 35
                  
                     27 Quoted in Marks, Precious Dust, 176.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid.,177
                  
                     29
                            Ibid197
               
                    
                    B-Boys made a pile. You would be ashamed of my self so I am bound to have the pile
                    if possible."30 Both Faucett and Fairchild would undoubtedly have
                    agreed with another miner who wrote his family that to keep his "manly
                    self-respect," he had to continue searching.31
            
            The correspondence from 
                        California
                     grew as more and more family members went west. People in Indiana who received the
                    letters frequently exchanged the information they contained. On October 21,1850, Levi wrote Louisa
                    from 
                        Sacramento
                     that he had located county friends, Joseph and Albert 
                        Hamilton
                    , and "was surprised to see them nothing but skin and boanes." He
                    included the information that old Mr. Hamilton and Duncan Dicky were both "dead with
                    Erisi-ples… poor felows such a long way from thear famileys." Since Levi
                    included the information that Joseph had not yet notified the Hamilton family, Louisa had the
                    additional responsibility of informing them. When he learned that a friend was considering coming
                    west, Faucett, who refused to return home, must have bemused Louisa by asking her to tell the man to
                    stay in Indiana "if he loves comfort and good society."
            Levi acknowledged that he did have a great deal of company at the celebration of 
                        California
                     statehood in 
                        Sacramento
                    . He described for his wife the fireworks and the speeches praising Henry Clay but added
                    that "There is more dissadisfied in 
                        California
                     now than ever I saw any where[.] Some cursing the country others the people that wrote
                    back some them selves for being such foolls for ever coming &c&c." About
                    the same time another miner wrote an eastern friend that "instead of being a blessing [
                        California
                    ] will prove a curse to the Union…. You can form no adequate idea of the
                    depths of sin and moral degredation to which most of the people are sunk or rather sink
                    themselves…." One town had seventeen murders in a week, and over a period of
                    five years Nevada County averaged eighty-three homicides per one hundred thousand people. Gambling
                    was a popular diversion that often accompanied the violence as miners bet on everything, including
                    the survival chances of a shooting victim as he underwent surgery on a pool table. Alcoholism was
                    rampant, and travelers commented that whiskey bottles littered the state's roads and trails. Such
                    drinking made men who wore filthy clothes, stood in cold water all day, and lived on an inadequate
                    diet even more vulnerable to disease. The lonely miners added to that health risk by paying up to
                    four hundred dollars a night for the services of the prostitutes who worked the camps. In fact,
                    dissipation was so common that a Forty-Niner named George McCowen complained that if a man did not
                    have bad habits such as drinking, gambling, or chewing tobacco, he was considered "little
                    short of an outlaw." McCowen decided 
                  
                     30 Quoted in ibid., 327.
                  
                     31
                            lbid., 155.
               
                     to take up smoking so he could fit in and avoid trouble.32 As Levi moved about the state, he described conditions so primitive and
                    dangerous that even peaceful farmers began to carry revolvers and bowie knives.
            While high prices, the failure of his search for gold, and the presence of flagrant immorality could
                    not persuade Levi to leave the new state and return east, the mere rumor that there was
                    "cholary in this city" certainly convinced him to leave 
                        Sacramento
                    . On November 24,1850, Levi informed his father that he had departed on October 25 and
                    traveled about one hundred miles to Calaveras County. With winter approaching he joined a group
                    cutting logs to build a 14-by-18-foot cabin. Once it was completed, Levi purchased thirteen feet of
                    lumber at 37 cents per foot, made a "gold washer" or cradle, and, with a friend,
                    commenced mining for gold. They "worked all week hard and only made thirty
                    dollars." A group of twenty-seven men who had dug a twelve-foot-deep trench nearby made
                    even less. All were concerned about their ability to live in the area where one hundred pounds of
                    flour cost twenty to twenty-four dollars, tea was three dollars a pound, and those who preferred to
                    drink coffee paid one dollar per pound. While the climate was much healthier than in the
                    cholera-ridden cities, Levi reported that the rainy season had set in and that he expected rain
                    every day for three or four months. By January 28, 1851, he was so discouraged that he left for
                    Placerville and in February moved on to "Grizley Kanyon," near the north fork of
                    the American River. When he and the Cathers, friends from 
                        Orange County
                    , "commenced digging on a spot about ten feet that was never dug
                    over… we got $400 out in a few days… our prospects are tolerable
                    good at present." Despite the discovery, a deep snow forced them to seek shelter, and the
                    cost of living soon ate up their profits. The strike proved to be a small one, and, in May, 1851,
                    Levi moved on to Nevada City. It was the fifth relocation he had made since arriving in 
                        California
                     the previous year. When Faucett complained to his family about the lack of letters, his
                    father responded that "when you did tell us where to direct [a letter], you would be gone
                    before [it] could get there."
            All of the miners were eager for mail and often stood in line at the post office in 
                        Sacramento
                     from the time it opened at 8:00 a.m. until it closed twelve hours later. There was a
                    delivery window for every letter of the alphabet, and the line for each window stretched out of
                    sight. Individuals near the front when the facility closed for the night simply sat down and waited
                    for it to open the next morning. Food vendors supplied the crowds, and miners who had been weakened
                    by illness or injury earned money by waiting in line and then selling their place to the highest
                    bidder when they neared the front. If Levi 
                  
                     32 Courtwright, "Violence in America," 42-44,
                            quotations on 42.
               
                     ever stood in the "F line, his wait was unrewarded
                    because of the eight letters that Louisa wrote to her husband not one ever reached its destination.
                    A miner who had a similar experience commented that he would "cheerfully pay 100 doll[arsl
                    for a Letter from Home."33
            
            Although he had not heard from his wife, Levi discovered in Nevada City a way to get some news about
                    events in Indiana. He went to work for a company that was hiring twenty to twenty-five miners to
                    conduct a large sluicing operation; Samuel and Marley Clark and John Cather from 
                        Orange County
                     were also employed there. On May 4, 1851, Levi described for Louisa the bunk that he
                    and John were sharing: "some clabboards laid on two poals and two blankets under us and two
                    to cover us." He assured his wife that "I have got so I can rest sweetly in that
                    way although it went verry hard with me at first." Levi called the area "the
                    richest mining region of country I have bin in." He described it as "full of
                    Gold." He told Louisa that the men who owned the company were two ministers: John Thompson,
                    ua baptist and a fine mason from Misouri," and Johnathan Phelps, "a universelast
                    from N. Hampshire." On Sundays the partners would share a pulpit, and the miners attended
                    in great numbers. On one occasion there were even fifteen to twenty ladies present, which caused
                    great comment. Levi wrote to Louisa that he had heard a "sermint" by Rev. Isaac
                    Owens who "gave his brethern a severe thrashing for Sabbath braeking, dealing in ardent
                    spirrits, etc, and concluded by asking his brethern and all to untie there gold bags and the stuards
                    would wait on them with a plate for them to pass in the dust—liberally."
                    Earlier, Faucett had stayed in Coloma for a period of time and might have heard a
                    preacher-prospector in that town tell his congregation, "There will be divine service in
                    this house next Sabbath—if, in the meantime, I hear of no new diggings."34
            
            Levi was excited about working for Thompson and Phelps and may have offended his family when he wrote
                    that he wished he "could be with you all a few days and then back here again I am bound to
                    make six or eight hundred dollars before I go home…." Faucett stayed with the
                    preachers for one month, until June 6, 1851, when he used all the money he had earned to purchase a
                    claim, two hundred feet of the "
                        Kentucky
                     Flat." He explained to Louisa on July 7, 1851, that "on this flat
                    they have binn and are yet taking out large amounts of coarse gold pieces weighing from two bits up
                    to two hundred Dollars we have not got a piece larger than sixteen Dollars yet we have done
                    tolerable well so far it is butiful gold we get." Levi had gone into partnership with three
                    men from 
                        New York
                     and was doing the cooking for the group while they worked the claim. The next letter,
                    dated September 7,1851, came from Union City, 
                        California
                    , and 
                  
                     33 Marks, Precious Dust, 309.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., 227.
               
                    
                    
                  LEVI FAUCETT TO HIS WIFE LOUISA,
                                SEPTEMBER 7, 1851
                  Letter in author's possession
               
                     made no further mention of his 
                        New York
                     partners or the claim on 
                        Kentucky
                     Flat. This letter stated that he had hired himself out for $135 per month to
                    perform an undefined task and had enough savings that he could offer to send Louisa "a
                    check for two or three hundred dollars… if you stand in need of
                    money…." It would have been the first financial support she had received from
                    her husband since he had left home eighteen months earlier. Perhaps the offer of the money was
                    intended to counterbalance the news that he was not coming home that fall. In a letter addressed to
                    "Louisa Faucett God bless her," Levi told his wife that "there is no one
                    in 
                        California
                     that has a stronger desire to be with their companyon children and friends than I have,
                    yet I cannot think of going home now to count two years of my life a blank…."
            Levi's brother, Abel, definitely considered the time in 
                        California
                     a waste. On December 21,1851, he wrote to their parents, "I was glad to hear
                    from our 
                        California
                     friends… that they had sent some money home to their famileys &
                    creditors as I think the[yl had been gone about long enough for to begin to make something. Most any
                    good hand could do as well down on the Mississippi river cutting cord
                    wood." Abel told his father, who had been pressing hard for Levi's return, to
                    "make your mind easy in refference to the boyes in 
                        California
                     all we can say does but little good and may do much harm in coming years….
                    They are young and may proffet by the lesson."
            Levi certainly had not profited monetarily before his next letter home, which was dated October 26,
                    1851. He had returned to Nevada City, but this time he was working his own claim, bringing in about
                    four dollars a day. The sluicing effort begun by Thompson and Phelps had ended the previous July
                    when the stream went dry. As a fellow minister, George had asked to be remembered to the Baptist
                    preacher, but Levi sent word to his father that Thompson had 
                  
                     
                        gone the way of all the earth on the next morning after I came up here the news came
                                    into twown that Thompson was found that morning in his cabbin by the Side of his
                                    bunk with his brains bloan out it appears as if he had awoke in the night and turned
                                    the blankets back and Slipt out and reached up and got his gun and Shot himself, he
                                    fell back under his bunk and the gun lay across his legs no one knows what cased him
                                    to put an end to his days.
                     
                  
               
            
            This October, 1851, letter closed with the usual requests to his wife that she write often, extend
                    his love to his family, and remember that "I remain your husband until death." It
                    was the last she heard from him for almost six months, until a rather stilted communication, dated
                    March 1,1852, arrived from 
                        Sacramento
                    . Although the letter does not state how he did so, Levi had managed to amass a
                    considerable sum of money. It noted that he had sent a check for $300 to his father to
                    begin payments to his creditors and was enclosing in this letter to his wife $350 for her
                    to give George to apply on other debts. For the first time Levi no longer asked her to write, made
                    no reference to his expected return, and extended only his best 
                    wishes "for yours and the childrens welfare." He even omitted the now-hollow
                    encouragement to do the best she could. This letter appears to be the last Louisa ever received from 
                        California
                    .
            Levi's formality in this final letter could have been in reaction to his family's mounting anger over
                    his continuing absence. The money he enclosed was perhaps an effort to prove to them, and himself,
                    that he was not a failure. During the previous months George Faucett had become ill and in his
                    letters to his son was increasingly critical of Levi's neglect of his family. Throughout the series
                    of letters George's sympathies were always with Louisa. A few days after his son-in-law Enoch Millis
                    left for 
                        California
                     in 1853, George took his daughter Lydia to "Lawyer Pain" to file for
                    divorce. It is probable that Louisa's experiences influenced her father-in-law's actions. As for
                    Abel, the brother who remained at home had nothing but disdain for the "b~y" in 
                        California
                     who was approaching forty and had so little to show for his efforts. Because of her
                    missing letters, Louisa is the silent participant; but it is hard to imagine that she did not
                    experience increasing resentment over having to bear the burden of farm and family without any moral
                    or much monetary support from her husband. Lizzie Wilson may have spoken for such women when she
                    wrote to her father, 
                  
                     
                        Eight years ago on the twelfth of September I stood on the wharf at 
                                        New York
                                    … and saw you leaving…. The feeling of gloom and
                                    despondency which settled down on my heart then comes on me again tonight as I
                                    remember it…. Since then a veil has fallen between you and
                                    me…. I used to know something of what you meant, but now I know nothing
                                    of you. I ask for an explanation. You never give it. I write to you begging for a
                                    reply. You never make it…. You write of everything else… but
                                    not what I want to know [when he was coming home]. "35
                        
                     
                  
               Whatever Louisa's trials, her husband's remedy was always "do the best you
                    can." The words eventually must have evoked in her the thought that she probably could have
                    done a lot better than Levi.
            Whatever the cause, the correspondence ceased. Although Levi returned to Paoli in time to father
                    Alice Faucett (Rhodes), who was born in 1855, the pile of fading letters suggests that gold fever
                    and the years of separation cost the Faucett family far more than it ever gained. If there was
                    continuing discord, it must have gradually faded from memory, or gold fever was contagious. In the
                    1890s Levi's and Louisa's son, Charles, joined the gold rush to Alaska. There he was reportedly
                    murdered while defending the rich strike that had eluded his father forty years earlier.
            
               
                  35 Quoted in Heffernan and Stecker, Sisters of Fortune,
                        4.
            
         
         
         
            Latecomers to the Industrial City: African Americans, Jobs, and Housing in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Indiana, 1940-1960
            
                    Iwan W. Morgan
                    ∗
                
            The African-American population of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Indiana, grew from 2,517 in 1940 to 5,294 in 1950 and 11,645 in 1960. By the end of
                    this period blacks constituted 7.2 percent of the city's total population, compared with 2.1 percent
                    twenty years earlier. This expansion typified the experience of smaller industrial cities in the
                    North, most of which had relatively few black inhabitants before World War II.1
                    In his classic study of prewar racial issues, Gunnar Myrdal observed that these cities represented
                    "the most important of all community groups to which the Negro has yet to gain
                        access."2 Earlier black migrants from the South, particularly
                    during the great exodus of World War I, settled largely in the big cities of the North. These
                    metropolises received another huge influx of African Americans during World War II, but the manpower
                    needs of the "arsenal of democracy" also brought blacks in sizable numbers to many
                    smaller industrial centers. Between 1940 and 1950 the black population doubled in cities such as 
                        Albany
                     and 
                  Syracuse, New York
               ; Fort 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        South Bend
                    , Indiana; Grand Rapids, 
                        Michigan
                    ; Peoria, 
                        Illinois
                    ; and 
                  Springfield, Massachusetts
               ; it grew by nearly as much in Bridgeport, 
                        Connecticut
                    ; Canton, 
                        Ohio
                    ; Elizabeth and Paterson, 
                        New Jersey
                    ; and other similar places. In the following decade the black population in most of
                    these cities continued to expand at a much faster rate than the white population. As a result racial
                    issues took on new significance in the lives of these communities.
            
               
                  ∗ Iwan W. Morgan is professor of history and head of the
                        Department of Politics and Modern History at 
                            London
                         Guildhall University. He was an exchange lecturer in the Department of History,
                        Indiana University—Purdue University Fort 
                            Wayne
                         in 1979-1980. His publications include Beyond the Liberal
                        Consensus (1994) and Deficit Government: Taxing and Spending in Modern
                        America (1995). The author wishes to thank graduate student Abda Bibi for her assistance
                        with research for this paper.
               
                  1 In 1940 only nine of the thirty-three northern and midwestern cities
                        with populations between 100,000 and 250,000 had over 5,000 black inhabitants: Gary, Indiana
                        (20,394), 
                     Dayton, Ohio
                   (20,273), Youngstown, 
                            Ohio
                         (14,615), Camden, 
                            New Jersey
                         (12,478), and Akron, 
                            Ohio
                         (12,260) had the largest numbers, while Trenton, 
                     New Jersey; Hartford, Connecticut
                  ; Flint, 
                            Michigan
                        ; and 
                     New Haven, Connecticut
                  , had between 5,000 and 10,000
                        African-American citizens. By 1950 twenty-four of the thirty-four cities of this size had in
                        excess of 5,000 black residents.
               
                  2 Gunnar Myrdal, An American Dilemma: The Negro Problem and
                            Modern Democracy (
                            New York
                        , 1944), 386, 182-201.
            
            
            It is hardly surprising that research on African Americans in northern cities during World War II and
                    the postwar era has concentrated on the big metropolises.3 The black population
                    in places such as 
                  Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit, New York, Pittsburgh
               ,
                    and 
                        Philadelphia
                     continued to expand at a far greater rate than in cities with under 250,000
                    inhabitants. Nevertheless, the experience of African Americans as latecomers in the smaller
                    industrial centers of the North in the two decades after 1940 is an important part of their urban
                    history. A case study of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     during this period, for example, throws light on black struggles to secure jobs and
                    decent housing in smaller industrial cities. It also illuminates the interrelationship of race with
                    the other major forces of urban change, namely, the beginnings of the transition from the industrial
                    to post-industrial city, the growth of suburbanization, and inner-city decline.
            Situated in northeastern Indiana within the industrial heartland of the upper Midwest, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     was an important manufacturing center for electrical products, trucks, pumps, and
                    metals in the mid-twentieth century. Gaining entry into the city's industrial labor market between
                    1940 and 1960 was a significant advance for African Americans, one that contrasted with the false
                    start of the World War I era. Labor shortages in 1917 and 1918 and postwar strikes had induced a
                    number of manufacturers in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     to recruit black workers from the South. As a result, the city's black population, 572
                    in 1910, rose to 1,454 in 1920 and to an estimated 2,200 within another two years. This expansion
                    ceased abruptly after the labor unions' defeat in the final wave of postwar strikes in 1922.
                    Thereafter only a handful of firms hired new black workers. Many of the black newcomers were
                    dismissed from jobs in industry, leaving them to choose between taking poorly paid service work or
                    looking for employment in other cities such as Gary, 
                        Chicago
                    , or 
                        Detroit
                    . Those who continued to work in manufacturing were confined to foundry and laboring
                    jobs that were unpopular with whites.4
            
            Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's experience during this earlier period contrasted with development in Gary, Indiana,
                    one of the few northern cities of 
                  
                     3 For a broad overview see Kenneth L. Kusmer, "African
                            Americans in the City since World War II: From the Industrial to the Post-Industrial
                            Era," Journal of Urban History, XXI (May, 1995), 458-504. For
                            particular cities see Arnold Hirsch, Making the Second Ghetto: Race and Housing
                                in 
                                    Chicago
                                , 1940-1960 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1983); Thomas J. Sugrue, The Origins of the Urban Crisis:
                                Race and Inequality in Postwar 
                                    Detroit
                                
                      (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1996); John F. Bauman, Public Housing, Race and Renewal:
                                Urban Planning in 
                                    Philadelphia
                                , 1920-1974 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1987); and Henry L. Taylor, ed., African Americans and the Rise
                                of Buffalo's Post-Industrial City, 1940 to the Present (Buffalo, 1990).
                  
                     4 Tom Lewandowski, "The Warm Weather of 1919: The Bowser
                            Lock-Out and the Bass Strike" (unpublished paper in author's possession); Charles
                            S. Johnson, "A Survey of the Negro Population of Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana," National Urban League Department of Research and
                            Investigations, 1928, copy (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            —Men County Public Library).
               
                     under 250,000 population with a large black community before
                    1940. Gary's black population grew from 340 in 1910 to 5,500 in 1920 and 18,000 in 1930. During
                    World War I African Americans displaced eastern European immigrants as the main source of cheap
                    labor in the steel industry. Immigration restriction laws enacted in the 1920s insured the
                    continuing importance of black labor in the local market. Gary millowners aimed at stabilizing black
                    workers at around 10 to 15 percent of the work force in order to maintain ethnoracial diversity as a
                    safeguard against class solidarity. Although African Americans in the main were confined to
                    unskilled jobs, the growth of the steel industry in the 1920s sustained the expansion of black
                        employment.5
            
            Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's business and civic leaders, by contrast, hoped to stem the black influx as part of
                    their strategy to attract new industry to the city. In the 1920s, after local union militancy had
                    been curbed, the Chamber of Commerce launched a campaign that drew truck, pump, and electrical
                    manufacturers to Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . Lighter industries of this kind were thought to require more skilled and intelligent
                    workers than heavy industries such as steel. Accordingly, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     boosters regarded the social composition of the city's labor force, in which people of
                    German, Irish, and British extraction were predominant, as one of their greatest selling points.
                    Promotional publicity boasted that Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's old-stock work force was more reliable, enterprising, and hardworking than labor in
                    big cities where immigrants from eastern and southeastern Europe and blacks were more numerous.6 Unsurprisingly, the booster campaign attracted firms with a conservative
                    racial outlook. Of the fifteen businesses that located in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     between 1925 and 1932, only the International Harvester Corporation was willing to hire
                    blacks, a small number of whom were employed at its new truck plant. As a result, African Americans
                    experienced either marginalization or displacement during the local boom of the 1920s. By 1940 Fort 
                        Wayne
                     ranked as Indiana's second largest city in total numbers but only eighth in black
                    population.
            
               
                  5 Edward Greer, Big Steel: Black Politics and Corporate Power
                            in Gary, Indiana (
                            New York
                        , 1979), 72-87; Neil Betten and Raymond Mohl, "The Evolution of Racism in
                        an Industrial City, 1906-1940: A Case Study of Gary, Indiana," Journal of
                            Negro History, LIX (January, 1974), 51-64. For further contrasts between Fort 
                            Wayne
                         and other Hoosier cities see Darrel E. Bigham, We Ask Only a Fair
                            Trial: A History of the Black Community of 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1987), and Jack S. Blocker, "Black Migration to 
                            Muncie
                        , 1860-1930," Indiana Magazine of History, XCII
                        (December, 1996), 297-320.
               
                  6 John Clark, "Keeping Up With Jonesville," Saturday Evening Post, CC (September 10, 1927), 184; Fort 
                            Wayne
                         Chamber of Commerce, Industrial Survey of Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , 1930), 56-58. See, too, the memoir of prominent booster Albert H. Schaff,
                        "The Chamber of Commerce Takes a Bow" (Quest Club paper, October 10, 1947,
                        copy, Fort 
                            Wayne
                        —
                            Allen County
                         Public Library).
            
            
            Because of their precarious position, African Americans were more vulnerable to the ravages of the
                    Depression than any other group in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . Local unemployment persisted at high levels throughout the 1930s. Promising signs of
                    economic recovery in 1935 and 1936 were abruptly halted by the further recession of 1937-1938, which
                    hit Fort 
                        Wayne
                     particularly hard. African Americans had to operate on the margins of a devastated
                    local economy rather than in the prosperous one of the 1920s. In 1940 the unemployment rate among
                    blacks was 38 percent compared with 11 percent among whites. Out of a total black male employment of
                    455, the census of that year recorded only two men working as semiskilled operatives in
                    manufacturing and forty-eight holding laboring jobs in factories. Nor did African Americans receive
                    an equitable share of federal and state work relief from agencies such as the Federal Emergency
                    Relief Administration, the Civil Works Administration, and the Works Progress Administration (WPA).
                    This disparity was typical of the situation throughout Indiana, but in some
                    cities—notably 
                        Indianapolis
                    —a vocal black political leadership used its influence to secure better
                    treatment of African Americans, particularly after all work relief was placed under federal control
                    with the creation of the WPA in 1935. In Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , however, the black middle class was very small, lacked influence, and had no tradition
                    of political involvement with the Democratic party. Indeed, it was hard pressed to protect its own
                    position. Many of the sons and daughters of the city's black bourgeoisie, who might have provided
                    the African Americans with a new generation of leadership in the era after World War II, moved in
                    the 1930s because they could not find decent jobs in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . One woman, who came from one of the city's longest-established black families, pleaded
                    with R. Earl Peters, an influential state politician and native of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , to help her daughter, a graduate of Fisk University, to find employment as a teacher
                    elsewhere in Indiana. "Fort 
                        Wayne
                    ," she complained, "doesn't have anything to offer a Negro in the
                    school system."7
            
            As happened throughout Indiana, where total manufacturing employment doubled between 1939 and 1943,
                    war production revitalized the local economy. The number of jobs in the Fort 
                        Wayne
                    —
                        Allen County
                     area rose from 26,000 in April, 1940, to 56,600 in June, 1943. So rapid was this
                    expansion that local industries faced the threat of 
                  
                     7 U.S., Census, Sixteenth Census, 1940; Vol. II,
                            part 2, Population, 972; Freeman B. Ransom to Louis McHowe, May 1, 1935,
                            Box 460, Indiana, Federal Emergency Relief Administration State Files, 1933-1936, Record
                            Group 69 (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.); Marjorie Wickliffe to R. Earl Peters, June 5, 1934, Box 1, Earl Peters
                            Papers (
                                Allen County
                            -Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Historical Society). For Fort 
                                Wayne
                             in the 1930s see Iwan W. Morgan, "Fort 
                                Wayne
                             and the Great Depression: The Early Years, 1929-1933," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXX (June, 1984), 122-45; Morgan, "Fort 
                                Wayne
                             and the Great Depression: The New Deal Years, 1933-1940," ibid. (June, 1984), 348-78.
               
                     labor shortages; consequently, several firms began to hire black
                    males in late 1942 and black females in mid-1943.8 These developments prompted
                    renewed black in-migration from the South, particularly from 
                        Alabama
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                    . With need for labor at its most acute in mid-1944, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's African-American population reached a wartime peak, estimated at over six thousand,
                    but declined to around five thousand within a year as defense production slowed. International
                    Harvester, which experienced high turnover among its black workers throughout the war, reported an
                    intensification of this trend in the first half of 1945 as many African Americans chose to return
                    home to the South or moved to other northern cities to look for peacetime jobs.9
                    In contrast to the experience of their Great War forebears, blacks who remained in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     after World War II did not have the factory gates slammed in their faces. The wartime
                    breakthrough into industrial employment, however, prefaced slow and tortuous progress rather than a
                    steady advance toward occupational mobility.
            Occupational distribution among African Americans was a significant indicator of limited racial
                    change from the 1940s through the 1960s (see Table 1). Black employment in the skilled trades lost
                    momentum after the war, remaining static in the 1950s and 1960s. The strongest advance was recorded
                    by semiskilled operatives, a wide-ranging occupational category that encompassed operators of basic
                    machinery from industrial presses to elevators and laundry equipment. On the other hand, low-paying
                    service work remained the single largest category of black employment until the 1960s. In 1940
                    service workers and unskilled laborers constituted three-fourths of the gainfully employed African
                    Americans. The numbers in these categories declined proportionally over the next twenty years but
                    still accounted for nearly half of black jobs by 1960. Significantly, African Americans made slower
                    economic progress than whites during the so-called "long boom" that the 
                        United States
                     enjoyed in the quarter century after World War 11. In 1969 the median income of black
                    families in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     was 68 percent of that of white families, compared with 71 percent twenty years
                    earlier.
            In Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's case the nature and process of racial change in the workplace during World War II had
                    important implications for the postwar economic progress of African Americans. The necessity 
                  
                     8 Hugh M. Ayer, "Hoosier Labor in the Second World
                            War," Indiana Magazine of History, LIX (June, 1963), 96; 
                                United States
                             Employment Service (USES), "Resurvey of the Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Market, October 10, 1942," Box 274, Fort 
                                Wayne
                             File, USES Records, Record Group 183 (National Archives); USES, "Labor
                            Market Development Report for Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , August 1943," ibid.
                  
                  
                     9 Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, January 8, 1950; Dale Cox to Donald F. Carmony, June
                            18,1945, in "A War History and Review of the Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Works, International Harvester Corporation," Box 74, Economic Changes,
                            Indiana War History Commission Records, (Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public
                            Records, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
               
                     of finding new sources of labor rather than commitment to racial
                    equality dictated the employment policy of local businesses. The limited and largely symbolic
                    governmental initiatives to combat racism were of little significance. Neither the Fair Employment
                    Practices Committee (FEPC), a federal agency created by presidential order in 1941 to investigate
                    racial discrimination in industries with defense contracts, nor the Indiana Plan of Bi-Racial
                    Cooperation, a state body established in 1941 to help win the war through promoting cooperation
                    among business, black, and labor leaders in defense industries, had much impact on Fort 
                        Wayne
                    .10
            
            The first companies to hire African Americans in sizable numbers in 1942-1943 were General Electric,
                    which had hitherto barred them, and International Harvester. Significantly, these firms operated the
                    largest factories in the city, and their corporate headquarters determined manpower policies. A
                    number of smaller local businesses also began to hire blacks, but others did not. Although there
                    were exceptions, companies engaged in brewing, pump manufacture, and precision tools—the
                    industries longest associated with Fort 
                        Wayne
                    —continued to bar blacks, in some cases until the early 1960s. Many of these
                    firms were engaged in war work but did not fall afoul of the federal and state antidiscrimination
                    watchdogs largely because African Americans did not protest against them. The Indiana War Manpower
                    Commission admitted in 1946 that Fort 
                        Wayne
                     had received more war contracts than its labor supply actually merited. As a result,
                    blacks could easily find industrial work, usually in the larger factories, which offered the best
                    wages and seniority prospects. Significantly, the FEPC dealt with only one serious complaint of
                    racial discrimination in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's defense industries. Despite a reputation for treating workers well in pay and
                    seniority, the Studebaker Corporation, which opened a new plant in the city during the war, refused
                    to employ blacks other than as janitors and common laborers. In marked contrast to their toleration
                    of discrimination by smaller firms, African Americans issued a chorus of complaints about Studebaker
                    at a time of an intensified local labor shortage. As a result, in mid-1944 the FEPC negotiated an
                    agreement in which the company promised to mend its ways.11
            
            
               
                  10 For discussion of the Fair Employment Practices Committee (FEPC) see
                        Louis Ruchames, Race, Jobs and Politics: The Story of the FEPC (
                            New York
                        , 1953); and Neil A. Wynn, The Afro-American and the Second World
                        War (
                            London
                        , 1976), 48-51. For state antidiscrimination efforts see Max Pavin Cavnes, The Hoosier Community at War (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1961), 115-19, and James H. Madison, Indiana through Tradition
                            and Change: A History of the Hoosier State and Its People, 1920-1945 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1982), 384-89.
               
                  11 J. Harvey Kearns, "A Study of the Social and Economic
                        Conditions of the Negro Population of Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , Indiana," Department of Research and Community Projects, National Urban
                        League, 1949, 11-22, copy (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        -
                            Allen County
                         Public Library); John K. Jennings, "The War Manpower Commission in
                        Indiana, 1943-1945," pp. 73-76, mimeograph, Indiana War History Commission Records;
                    
            
            
            Although spared the kind of displacement experienced in the early 1920s, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's African Americans encountered many obstacles to their advancement in the workplace
                    after World War II. When demobilized white workers returned from war to reclaim their jobs, black
                    employees were "bumped down" in level of employment—a practice common
                    in Gary and other Hoosier cities in 1945 and 1946." Federal antidiscrimination regulations
                    would have effectively prohibited mass layoffs of African American workers, but Fort 
                        Wayne
                     business leaders had no such plans. The lesson that many of them had learned from World
                    War II was that blacks constituted a useful pool of surplus labor that could be taken on or laid off
                    in accordance with the needs of the local economy.13 African Americans were thus
                    condemned to a prolonged period of economic insecurity in a city that showed early signs of
                    deindustrialization during the decade and a half after 1945.
            In spite of national prosperity, a report in 1962 described the postwar trends of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's manufacturing economy as "less than favorable."14 In common with many older industrial cities, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     experienced a number of structural economic changes in the aftermath of the war: the
                    beginnings of plant relocation to suburban and rural areas; greater reliance on automation in
                    manufacturing processes; a loss of defense contracts to the rising sunbelt cities of the South and
                    Southwest; the increasing use of overtime by employers to avoid hiring additional workers with full
                    benefits; and the growth of service and retail business.15
            
            In view of its dependence on a relatively narrow range of hard goods manufacturing, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     was particularly vulnerable to the postwar recessions of 1949, 1953-1954, and
                    1957-1958. Its difficulties were compounded by industries that, with the major exception 
                  "Excerpts from the Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Conferences, May 31 to June 1,1944," Box 725, Presidential Fair
                            Employment Practices Committee Records, Record Group 228 (National Archives).
                  
                     12 Kearns, "A Study of the Social and Economic Conditions of
                            the Negro Population of Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ," 14; Howard Minier, former United Automobile Workers official and
                            vice-president of Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Industrial Union Council in the 1940s and 1950s, interview with author, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, May, 1980.
                  
                     13 For nationwide trends see Matthew A. Kessler, "Economic
                            Status of Non-white Workers, 1955-1962," Monthly Labor Review, LXXXVI (July, 1963),
                            782-86; and William H. Harris, The Harder We Run: Black Workers since the Civil
                                War (
                                New York
                            , 1982), 123-33.
                  
                     14 Hammer & Co. Associates, Downtown Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                : An Analysis of its Economic Potential (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1962), 41, copy (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            -
                                Allen County
                             Public Library).
                  
                     15 For a general discussion of deindustrialization see Barry Bluestone
                            and Bennett Harrison, The Deindustrialization of America: Plant Closings,
                                Community Abandonment, and the Dismantling of Basic Industry (
                                New York
                            , 1982), 111-39. For useful big-city comparisons see Gregory D. Squires, 
                                Chicago
                            : Race, Class and the Response to Urban Decline (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1987), 25-29; Thomas J. Sugrue, "The Origins of the Urban Crisis:
                            Race, Industrial Decline, and Housing in 
                                Detroit
                            , 1940-1969" (Ph.D. dissertation, 
                                Harvard
                             University, 1992), 94-148; and Carolyn T. Adams et al., 
                                    Philadelphia
                                : Neighborhoods, Division and Conflict in a Post-Industrial City (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1991), 30-39.
               
                     of International Harvester's heavy trucks division, specialized
                    in manufacturing component parts rather than finished products. The first recession, paradoxically
                    the most shallow of the three in national terms, had the worst effect on Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , particularly in the tool and wire industries. In 1949 11 percent of the local labor
                    force was unemployed, but the jobless rate for African Americans was twice as high.16 The local economy enjoyed a dramatic revival during the Korean War but fell back again
                    during the postwar recession. By March, 1954, employment in the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     area was nearly six thousand less than its Korean-era peak (66,324 in June, 1953) and a
                    thousand below its 1948 level. Thereafter, the growth in local jobs occurred outside the
                    manufacturing sector, where the number of jobs experienced a decline of 2.8 percent compared with an
                    expansion of 14.6 percent in total employment between 1950 and 1960. These fluctuations hit African
                    Americans, latecomers to the industrial city, much harder than whites. Not only were blacks prone to
                    suffer the "last hired-first fired syndrome but recurrent layoffs compelled many of them to
                    take work where they could get it, thus preventing the acquisition of seniority within one
                    particular firm. In a tight labor market blacks were also hurt because they lacked special skills
                    and educational qualifications. Trapped in the ranks of unskilled laborers, they were vulnerable to
                    layoffs and replacement when plants automated.17
            
            To counter the effects of manufacturing decline, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     launched another booster campaign in the mid-1950s to attract new business. On this
                    occasion the city sought firms tied to the nation's booming consumer economy, notably trucking,
                    warehousing, and retailing. By 1958 Fort 
                        Wayne
                     was home to four major truck lines; warehousing activity that had started in the 1920s
                    had undergone a huge expansion; and four new shopping centers were in operation—the first
                    major retailing enterprises to be built outside the downtown district. This success did not spell
                    good news for African Americans. Retail jobs in particular were not a promising source of employment
                    for them. The downtown department stores did not employ blacks as sales assistants until the late
                    1950s for fear of alienating white customers. The new shopping centers, which were almost wholly
                    dependent on a white clientele, took even longer to follow suit. For African Americans, however, the
                    main problem with the new businesses was their suburban location. Warehousing and, to a lesser
                    degree, trucking were industries with a tradition of hiring blacks, but the new 
                  
                     16 Manager's Report, June, 1949, Box 274, Fort 
                                Wayne
                             File, USES Records, Record Group 183.
                  
                     17 For Fort 
                                Wayne
                            's postwar economy see Indiana Economic Council, Growth and
                                Characteristics of the Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                 Economy (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1954); 
                                Allen County
                             Plan Commission, Population and Economic Trends of 
                                    Allen County
                                
                      (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , 1957); Hammer and Co., Downtown Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ; and Fort 
                                Wayne City
                             Planning Department and City Planning Associates, Inc., Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                 from Past to Present: Community Renewal Program (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , 1972).
               
                     firms were located on the southwest edge of the city close to
                    the Baer Field airport. Travel to this area from the east-central district of the city where almost
                    all blacks lived was difficult because of poor public transport.18
            
            African-American women were somewhat less adversely affected than men in the early stages of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's transition from industrial to post-industrial city. In 1949 the average annual income
                    of black workers in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     was $1,750, a figure marginally higher than the average of $1,697
                    for the urban Midwest. Nevertheless, black males had a lower income than in nearby Gary and 
                        South Bend
                     (respectively $2,196, $2,598, and $3,114), but the
                    reverse was true for black women (respectively $1,000, $862, and
                    $873). The reason for this difference lay in the industrial structures of the cities.
                    Gary's steel mills and 
                        South Bend
                    's automobile plants offered males, black and white, better wages and prospects than
                    Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's diversified industries and smaller factories. Automobile manufacturing also proved
                    less vulnerable to recession, hence the high income level in 
                        South Bend
                    . By contrast, women of both races had fewer opportunities in the heavy industries of
                    Gary and 
                  South Bend. United
                            States
                Steel, for example, drastically reduced its female work force
                    after the war, but General Electric in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     continued to employ sizable numbers of women, whom it deemed highly suitable for light
                    manufacturing work. Significantly, women constituted 36.6 percent of the total number of black
                    operatives employed in manufacturing in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in 1950.19
            
            In the 1950s black women also progressed further than black men in certain categories of white collar
                    work. This advance reflected national trends during this decade and the next. As white collar jobs
                    grew more significant both within the national and local economies, black women found relatively
                    greater work opportunities in sectors that had a tradition of female employment. They also
                    benefitted from access to better schools in the urban North than the rural South. In the case of
                    Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , women constituted 49 percent of black professionals and 60 percent of black clerical
                    workers in 1960 compared with 41 percent and 43 percent in 1950. This gain also reflected the fact
                    that black women tended to stay longer in school than men. From 1944 to 1948, for example, women
                    constituted three-fifths of black high school graduates in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . These advances, however, should not be exaggerated. Black females in professional and
                    clerical jobs numbered only 46 and 144 respectively in 1960. This contrasted with 875 
                  
                     18 Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, "Progress Edition," May 27, 1958; Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Journal-Gazette, "Black Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Edition," November 25, 1979; R. Sommerfeld Associates,
                            "Report of a Study of the Socio-Economic Circumstances of Negroes in Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana," 1963, pp. 4-6, copy (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            -
                                Allen County
                             Public Library).
                  
                     19 U.S., Census, Sixteenth Census, 1950: Vol. II,
                            part 14, Population, 280-82; Field Report, August, 1948, Box 274, Fort 
                                Wayne
                             File, USES Records, Record Group 183.
               
                     employed in service work and private households, the
                    occupational categories that had by far the largest concentration of black women workers in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    .20
            
            Another consequence of the early transition from the industrial to post-industrial city was the
                    intensification of racial animosity on the part of white workers. More often than not organized
                    labor was a barrier to black advancement. With few exceptions the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     locals tended to be less progressive on race than their national bodies. In 194.6, for
                    example, one International Ladies Garment Workers local contravened national policy by threatening
                    strike action in response to a textile firm's decision to employ African Americans for the first
                        time.21 Although management's persistence overcame this opposition, few
                    employers were willing to risk confrontation with labor over racial issues. Except for locals of the
                    Hod Carriers and Laborers and the Plasterers and Cement Finishers, both of whom supported fair
                    employment, craft unions exhibited the strongest opposition to black advancement. In 1952 only nine
                    of the thirty-nine affiliates of the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Federation of Labor (FWFL) had black members. Most of the others openly opposed the
                    hiring of African Americans. A survey commissioned by the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Urban League (FWUL) noted that these unions displayed the traditional attitudes of
                    skilled labor on racial issues. Also, many of their members still resented blacks for their
                    strike-breaking activities after World War I. Nevertheless, the report rated the racial record of
                    the FWFL locals as being much worse than their big-city counterparts' and concluded that Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's economic difficulties after World War II were the cause.22
            
            African Americans generally received better treatment from affiliates of the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Industrial Union Council (FWIUC). By 1948 several held elective offices in locals of
                    the United Automobile Workers (UAW), the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers (UERMW), and
                    the United Steel Workers (USW). Nevertheless, the influence of blacks within these unions was
                    limited because they did not constitute more than a tenth of any local's membership. Not
                    surprisingly, the UAW and UERMW locals at the International Harvester and General Electric plants,
                    which had the largest number of black workers, had the best record on race.23
            
            
               
                  20 U.S., Census, Eighteenth Census, 1960: Vol. XLM, Population and Housing, Census Tracts, 33. High school graduate figures are
                        from Kearns, "A Study of the Social and Economic Conditions of the Negro Population of
                        Fort 
                            Wayne
                        ," 44. For national trends of black female employment see Alan L. Sorkin,
                        "Education, Occupation and Income of Nonwhite Population," Journal of Negro Education, XLI (Fall, 1972), 344-48.
               
                  21 Fort 
                            Wayne
                         Urban League (FWUL), "A Survey of the Racial Policies of Organized Labor
                        in Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , Indiana," February, 1953, p. II, copy (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        —
                            Allen County
                         Public Library).
               
                  22
                        Ibid., 7, 10-15, 32.
               
                  23
                        Ibid., 8; Kearns, "A Study of the Social and Economic Conditions of
                        the Negro Population of Fort 
                            Wayne
                        ," 22-23.
            
            
            United Automobile Workers local 57 usually acted in accordance with the liberal policy of its
                    international body. In 1940, despite the opposition of many white members, it became the first
                    industrial local in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     to negotiate a contract with a nondiscrimination clause. Four years later it set up its
                    own Fair Employment Practices Committee. In reality, however, the local defended racial equality
                    more in principle than in practice. Divided leadership was a problem during World War II. The local
                    president, who was reputed to be a former Ku Klux Klansman, held more liberal officials in check.
                    The more progressive leadership that gained power in the late 1940s proved cautious on racial
                    issues, recognizing that the downswing of the local economy had intensified the hostility of white
                    workers to black advancement.24
            
            The UERMW's record in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     was more impressive than the UAW's, especially in view of the international body's lack
                    of real commitment on racial issues.25 Local 901 was similarly uninterested
                    until General Electric began hiring blacks in 1942; thereafter it developed a firm commitment to
                    fair employment. It had the best record of any FWIUC affiliate in supporting African Americans over
                    seniority rights and encouraging them to be active in union affairs. In the postwar era local 901
                    also mounted a campaign to educate its membership on equal rights for blacks. With the enthusiastic
                    support of district leader John Gojack, other UERMW locals followed its lead. At Magnavox the union
                    backed up its pledge "to work our part" in support of the wartime FEPC. It also
                    won a major concession from the 
                        United States
                     Rubber Company, which took over the premises of the former Studebaker defense plant in
                    1946. In spite of this firm's poor national record on black rights, the management yielded to local
                    902's insistence on a nondiscriminatory seniority clause in the union contract.26
            
            The UERMW's communist sympathies made it vulnerable to the postwar Red Scare. In 1949 it was ousted
                    as the collective bargaining agent at General Electric by the rival International Electrical, Radio
                    and Machine Workers (IERMW). Interviewed thirty years later, a veteran labor activist claimed that
                    this defeat was attributable not only to the communist issue but also to the local leadership's
                    being too far ahead of its rank and file on race issues. There is little evidence to support this
                    contention. Other factors were certainly 
                  
                     24 FWUL, "A Survey of the Racial Policies of Organized Labor
                            in Fort 
                                Wayne
                            " 21-23; Howard Minier interview.
                  
                     25 Donald Critchlow, "Communist Unions and Racism: A
                            Comparative Study of the Responses of the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers and
                            the National Maritime Union to the Black Question during World War II," Labor
                            History, XVII (Spring, 1976), 238-44.
                  
                     26 FWUL, "A Survey of the Racial Policies of Organized Labor
                            in Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ," 19-21, 29-31; W. A. Ives to John D. Barnhart, March 1, 1944, Box 70,
                            "Economic Changes," Indiana War History Commission Records.
               
                     important, but rather than race, chief among them was a growing
                    concern that some local 901 officials were corrupt. Significantly, UERMW's downfall at General
                    Electric did not have negative consequences for African Americans employed in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's electrical industries. The response of other UERMW locals was to step up efforts to
                    hold the loyalty of existing members, particularly women and African Americans. Moreover, the new
                    IERMW local sustained its predecessor's racial policy, as evidenced by the election of a black
                    vice-president and a number of black shop stewards in 1950 and 1951.27
            
            The progressive racial positions taken by some locals contrasted with the collective position of the
                    industrial unions in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . Largely because of UAW pressure, the first black member was elected to the executive
                    council of the FWIUC in 1945, but this body was unable to agree on a united front against racism.
                    Its most high-profile action was to join with civil rights organizations in challenging Jim Crow
                    restrictions in downtown hotels and restaurants prior to the state IUC convention that was held in
                    Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in 1949. The outcome was a temporary lifting of the ban, but the FWIUC turned a blind
                    eye to the reimposition of the restrictions once the convention was over.28 On
                    the industrial front, FWIUC shied away from conducting a fair employment education program allegedly
                    for fear of offending rank-and-file members but also in reality to avoid splits within its own
                    ranks. In the early 1950s over half the FWIUC affiliates openly maintained discriminatory practices.
                    In particular, four locals belonging to the Amalgamated Clothing Workers, the United Brewery
                    Workers, and the USW (two) colluded with management to prevent the employment of blacks. As one
                    report concluded, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's labor organizations had "a long way to go" before they could claim
                    to practice what they preached about the elimination of discrimination.29
            
            There was, however, some credibility in the claims of many local union leaders that their hands were
                    tied by rank-and-file hostility. There is evidence that the racial prejudice of union members grew
                    stronger in the 1940s. Fort 
                        Wayne
                     did not experience wartime "hate strikes" such as those that occurred
                    in nearby 
                        Michigan
                    , but the Ku Klux Klan was active at several plants from 1943 through 1945, including
                        
                  
                     27 FWUL, "A Survey of the Racial Policies of Organized Labor
                            in Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ," 29-31. Howard Minier, former UAW and FWIUC official, claimed the
                            significance of racial issues in an interview with the author in May, 1980; however, local
                            historian Tom Lewandowski made available to the author the findings of a series of
                            interviews conducted in 1978 with longtime General Electric workers that offer no support
                            for Minier's view.
                  
                     28 FWUL, "A Survey of the Racial Policies of Organized Labor
                            in Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ," 8; Minier interview.
                  
                     29 FWUL, "A Survey of the Racial Policies of Organized Labor
                            in Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ," 19, 23, 26-28.
               
                     International Harvester.30 Race relations in
                    the workplace deteriorated as the local economy began to experience difficulties after the war. In
                    1949 one survey reported: "The competition for jobs since World War II has brought about
                    organized efforts by white workers, both unorganized and labor union members, to prevent Negroes
                    from acquiring employment, especially as production and skilled workers." The upgrading of
                    black workers was a particular bone of contention. Often shop stewards did not sympathize with the
                    progressive intentions of their local and did nothing to protect black rights. After the war white
                    workers reportedly formed unofficial committees to lobby against the promotion of black colleagues.
                    Many World War II veterans also resented changes that had taken place in their absence.31 In these circumstances local civil rights organizations by the early 1950s
                    regarded the racial attitudes of white workers rather than those of management as the principal
                    impediment to the economic advancement of African Americans in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's factories.32
            
            In addition to jobs, decent housing greatly concerned African Americans in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     between 1940 and 1960, and they made even less progress on this front. Before World War
                    II blacks had lived in well-defined but racially mixed areas of the inner city. By 1960, however, a
                    process of ghettoization had taken shape based on black population expansion, formal and informal
                    restrictions on black settlement in other neighborhoods, and the exodus of white residents. The
                    black in-migrants of the World War I era had clustered in two areas, in the east-central district
                    between downtown and the railroad yards and in the 
                        Westfield
                     housing development, but low-income whites constituted a large majority in both places.
                    Economic circumstance dictated the pattern of African-American settlement because the newcomers
                    could not afford housing elsewhere, particularly after the imposition of discriminatory employment
                    practices in the early 1920~.~~ Since cheap housing was plentiful in both districts, racial
                    competition for dwellings did not provoke serious problems, but the general standard of
                    accommodation was low and deteriorated still further in the depression era. In 1940, 20.1 percent of
                    black housing units in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     were in need of major repair compared with 5.9 percent of white dwellings. Overcrowding
                    was also a serious problem, estimated by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) to affect
                    two-fifths 
                  
                     30 Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, November 27, 1943.
                  
                     31 Kearns, "A Survey of the Social and Economic Conditions of
                            the Negro Population of Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ," 11, 22-25.
                  
                     32 FWUL, "A Survey of the Racial Policies of Organized Labor
                            in Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ," 34-35. The situation in Fort 
                                Wayne
                             was by no means out of step with national trends, even in liberal industrial
                            unions. For shop floor conflicts over racial issues such as upgrading and seniority within
                            the UAW see Kevin Boyle, "'There Are No Sorrows That the Union Can't Heal': The
                            Struggle for Racial Equality in the United Automobile Workers, 1940-1960," Labor History, XXXVI (Winter, 1995), 5-23.
                  
                     33 Johnson, "A Survey of the Negro Population of Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ," 8.
               
                     of black inhabitants in 1938, because many families
                    "doubled up" to save on rental costs.34
            
            African Americans' better economic circumstances in the 1940s and 1950s did not lead to a comparable
                    improvement in their housing. In spite of rising home ownership, increased racial concentration went
                    hand in hand with substandard housing. The number of dwelling units owned by blacks rose from 228 in
                    1940 to 656 in 1950 and to 1,477 in 1960, by which time almost one-half of all black housing units
                    were owner occupied. Except for the small enclave in West-field, the vast majority of the African
                    Americans continued to reside in the east-central area during this twenty-year period. By 1960
                    blacks made up 40 percent of the population of the five census tracts that covered most of this
                    district; ten years later they constituted a small majority of 53.6 percent. Although in the
                    intervening period the number of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's African-American inhabitants grew to 18,921—10.6 percent of the city's
                    population—there was hardly residential segregation on a big-city scale. As one observer
                    commented in 1960, there was no street in the east-central area "where black and white
                    don't live as neighbors"35
            
            Although many African Americans could have afforded to move elsewhere in the city, they were
                    initially prevented from doing so by the use of restrictive covenants. These deed clauses preventing
                    the conveyance of a property to blacks came into widespread use in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in the 1940s. With some justice, a Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Urban League official adjudged the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Real Estate Board (FWREB) "one of the most conservative [realtor
                    organizations] in the country." Immediately after the war the board took action to insure
                    that planned suburban developments were closed to African Americans and colluded with community
                    associations to prevent black dispersion into established neighborhoods.36 Two 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court judgments, Shelley v Kraemer, 1948 (decreeing judicial
                    enforcement of these clauses as discriminatory "state action" prohibited by the
                    Fourteenth Amendment) and Barrows v Jackson, 1953 (prohibiting legal damages for
                    violating such clauses), undermined the effectiveness of the restrictive covenants but did nothing
                    to improve residential mobility in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . A report in 1963 noted that the white neighborhoods' 
                  
                     34 U.S., Census, Housing, 1940, 2nd Series, Indiana
                            (Washington D.C., 1942); Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, June 11, 1938.
                  
                     35 U.S., Census, Seventeenth Census, 1950: Vol. I, part 3, pp. 14-18;
                            U.S., Census, Eighteenth Census, 1960: Vol. XLM, Population and Housing, Census Tracts, 33,
                            42; US., Census, Nineteenth Census, 1970: Vol. LXXIII, Population and
                            Housing, Census Tracts, 30; Robert Wilkerson to Reginald Johnson, April 7, 1960,
                            Affiliates File 54, Housing Activities Department, National Urban League Records (Library of
                            Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
                  
                     36 Robert Wilkerson to Reginald Johnson, April 7,1960, Affiliates File
                            54, Housing Activities Department, National Urban League Records; Kearns, "A Study
                            of the Social and Economic Conditions of the Negro Population of Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ," 31.
               
                     strong antipathy to open housing acted as a powerful informal
                    deterrent to the sale of homes to blacks. Although claiming to have no official position on such
                    matters, members of the FWREB invariably referred black purchasers to houses in the east-central
                    district. In the two decades after World War II only a handful of well-off black families slipped
                    through the net. The resentment of their white neighbors generally faded away within a few months
                    when it became clear that the African Americans' presence did not presage full-scale black
                    penetration of the neighborhood. There was never the kind of violent response encountered by the
                    first black families to move into 
                        Chicago
                    's Trumbull Park Homes project in the mid-1950s. The most notorious incident in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     occurred in 1963 when a cross was burned outside the home of a black doctor who had
                    moved into a white neighborhood.37
            
            By 1949 only a ten-block area on Hugh Street adjacent to the east-central district had been opened up
                    to new black settlement. This extension afforded wealthier African Americans the opportunity to
                    purchase one-and two-story homes of moderate quality from whites but at prices well above their
                    normal market value. During the 1940s and for most of the 1950s, however, black families for the
                    most part took over houses in the original zone of black settlement from upwardly mobile whites who
                    profited from postwar prosperity to move into neighborhoods with better housing. But housing demands
                    from an expanding black population eventually required the opening of new areas. In April, 1960,41.5
                    percent of African-American dwellings were occupied by families or individuals who had moved in
                    after January, 1958. In the 1960s, therefore, the line of black settlement was allowed to extend
                    beyond the east-central district to the adjoining neighborhood flanked by Calhoun Street on the
                    west, Drexel Avenue on the south, and Anthony Boulevard on the east. Because housing stock in this
                    district ranked among the oldest in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , many of the dwellings were in need of major improvements.38
            
            
               
                  37 R. Sommerfeld Associates, "The Report of a Study of the
                        Socio-Economic Circumstances of Negroes in Fort 
                            Wayne
                        ," 32-33, 69; Report of the U.S. Commission on Civil
                        Rights, 1959 (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1959), 527; Kearns, "A Study of the Social and Economic Conditions
                        of the Negro Population of Fort 
                            Wayne
                        ," 67. For violence in 
                            Chicago
                         see Arnold R. Hirsch, "Massive Resistance in the Urban North: Trumbull
                        Park, 
                            Chicago
                        , 1953-1966," Journal of American History, LXXXII
                        (September, 1995), 522-50.
               
                  38 Kearns, "A Study of the Social and Economic Conditions of the
                        Negro Population of Fort 
                            Wayne
                        ," 31; U.S., Census, Eighteenth Census, 1960: Vol. XLM,
                            Population and Housing, Census Tracts, 42; US, Census, Nineteenth Census,
                        1970: Vol. LXXIII, Population and Housing, Census Tracts, 30. Black demographic movement bore
                        out the predictions of the Home Owners Loan Corporation (HOLC). In the 1930s this federal agency
                        had made a detailed real estate appraisal of every sizable American city, including Fort 
                            Wayne
                        . It assessed the district south of the east-central area as being in the third
                        category (out of four), defined as "definitely declining" partly because of
                        the age of housing stock and partly because low prices for houses and rentals were deemed likely
                        to attract settlement from "undesirable elements" such as blacks, whose
                        presence would reinforce the downward trend of real estate values.
            
            
            Forced to operate in such a restricted housing market, African Americans ended up paying inflated
                    purchase or rental prices, often for substandard and old housing. According to the 1960 federal
                    census, 91 percent of black-occupied dwellings in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     had been constructed before 1940; and only 3 percent had been built aRer 1950, compared
                    with 66 percent and 20 percent of white-occupied units. Also, 48 percent of black-occupied housing
                    was in a deteriorating or dilapidated condition compared with 12 percent of white-occupied units. In
                    a 1959 survey the 
                        United States
                     Civil Rights Commission had painted an even bleaker picture of black housing
                    conditions, reporting that between 65 and 70 percent of all dwellings were substandard. Many blacks
                    lived in four-room bungalows that were little better than shanties. Common problems included
                    dampness, overcrowding, inadequate sanitation, and poor ventilation.39In the
                    late 1940s civil rights groups joined with FWIUC and church groups in a campaign to reform local
                    housing codes and compel improvement of slum housing. As a result of strong opposition from owners
                    of rental property, it was not until 1954 that the city government approved a watered-down code
                    reform. Lax enforcement, however, insured that there was little improvement in housing conditions in
                    the east-central district over the next five years.40
            
            Public policy, both federal and local, acted as a further constraint on the improvement of black
                    housing conditions. In common with cities throughout the land, federal housing policy in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     served to subsidize newly developed suburban areas at the expense of the inner city and
                    whites at the expense of blacks. In spite of the Kraemer decision, the FHA
                    sustained its long-standing prohibition against insuring private mortgages on older, rundown homes
                    as unsound actuarial risks. The newly created Veterans' Administration was similarly wary of making
                    loans on inner-city property.41 Accordingly, the net effect of the iron curtain
                    that the FWREB had 
                  The HOLC's prophecies tended to be self-fulfilling, since its appraisals made local banks
                            reluctant to lend on housing in low-rated neighborhoods. Moreover, the Federal Housing
                            Administration used the appraisals to red-line those parts of America's central cities in
                            which it would not insure mortgages. For HOLC appraisal see Kenneth T. Jackson,
                            "Race, Ethnicity and Real Estate Appraisal: The Home Owners Loan Corporation and
                            the Federal Housing Administration," Journal of Urban History, VI
                            (August, 1980), 419-52. HOLC's evaluation of Fort 
                                Wayne
                             real estate is in HOLC City Survey File, 1935-1940, Federal Home Loan Bank
                            Records, Record Group 195 (National Archives).
                  
                     39
                            Report of the US. Commission on Civil Rights, 1959 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1959), 394; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, January 8,12,1950; Robert Wilkerson to Reginald Johnson,
                            April 7, 1960, Affiliates File 54, NULR.
                  
                     40 FWUL, Annual Report, 1951-1952, pp. 6-7; Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Journal-Gazette, November 4, 1951, November 23,1953; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, November 4,1953, February 24, 26, 1954, September 1, 1959.
                  
                     41 Kenneth T. Jackson, Crabgrass Frontier: The
                                Suburbanization of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1985), 190-230.
               
                     drawn over the local housing supply prevented blacks from
                    purchasing homes eligible for federal loan assistance.
            Influential within both parties in local politics, the real estate lobby also worked to restrict the
                    scope and openness of public housing in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . Out of eighty-two cities surveyed by the American Municipal Association, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     was one of nine that decided not to apply immediately for federal funds to promote
                    public housing following the passage of the Federal Housing Act of 1949. A decade later the city had
                    only three public housing projects, two of which—Miami Village and Edsall
                    Homes—were closed to African Americans. Open housing was sanctioned only in the inferior 
                        Westfield
                     Village project, parts of which had lacked a sewer hookup until 1951. In 1954 Miami
                    Village tenants banded together, with support from the adjacent Indian Village private housing
                    development and the FWREB, to maintain the racial homogeneity of their project. Originally
                    constructed with federal funding to accommodate veterans, Miami Village was deeded to the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Housing Authority (FWHA) by the 
                        United States
                     Housing Authority in July, 1953, on condition that it should be operated as a
                    low-income project. To comply with federal terms the FWHA sought to evict forty families whose
                    income was deemed adequate for private rental. This aroused fears that African Americans would be
                    moved into the project to occupy vacant units. Under intense pressure from the alliance of white
                    tenants, owners, and realtors, the housing authority decreed that the color bar would be sustained
                    in spite of Miami Village's new designation as a low-income project.42 In 1959
                    African Americans occupied 60 out of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's 275 public housing units, a number that fell far short of black need. The 
                        United States
                     Civil Rights Commission bluntly and accurately concluded: the FWHA's public housing
                    program "is segregated and discriminates against Negroes." In response to such
                    unwelcome publicity and to pressure from local civil rights organizations, the city government
                    approved construction of a further forty units in the 
                        Westfield
                     area for black occupancy, but this increase did not substantially alleviate the housing
                    problems of low-income blacks.43
            
            In conjunction with reinforcing residential segregation, public policy fostered racial concentration
                    in the school system. Before 1945 the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Board of Education had not operated racially separate schools because the black
                    population had been too small. Racial attitudes had been most relaxed toward the few African
                    Americans within the high school system. By and large the board allowed blacks the same right as
                    white students to attend the high school of their 
                  
                     42 Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, July 13, 1949; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, January 10, 1954.
                  
                     43
                            Report of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, 1959, p. 478; Julius Thomas
                            to NUL Administration, "Field Report of Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Visit," May 23, 1960, Affiliates File, Vocational Services Office,
                            NULR.
               
                     choice, even if they lived outside the immediate catchment area.
                    In 1951, however, the board's refusal to permit the transfer of two black basketball stars from
                    Central High School to North Side, the city's top school for sports, highlighted a new policy of
                    promoting racial concentration. In line with this policy, small but significant changes were made in
                    school boundaries after the war. As a result, 75.5 percent of black elementary school pupils were
                    concentrated in three schools by 1949 compared with 53.4 percent twenty years earlier, and 85.1
                    percent of black high school students attended Central High. Local civil rights organizations feared
                    that Central would eventually become an "all-negro" school. In 1940 African
                    Americans constituted an insignificant proportion of Central's students, but they made up a third by
                    1960. Although the school was refurbished and remodeled in 1958, its enrollment of white pupils
                    underwent dramatic reduction. By 1959 Central had only 1,300 pupils, 400 fewer than in 1955, and
                    many classrooms were underutilized at a time of overcrowding in the other Fort 
                        Wayne
                     high schools. In 1960 the decision to amalgamate Central with the nearby junior high
                    school, which also had a large black enrollment, intensified fears about the school's future,
                    particularly because the decision was contrary to the Board of Education's usual policy of rigidly
                    separating these two levels of school.44
            
            The economic decay of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's central city in the postwar era intensified the social problems of slum housing and
                    ghettoization. Much of the substandard property in the east-central district was owned by whites,
                    including influential members of the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     community, who were holding it as an investment in anticipation of downtown
                        redevelopment.45 They had no incentive to improve their properties in the
                    face of the continued decline of the central city. Between 1946 and 1958 four-fifths of all new
                    housing units were constructed in the suburbs, which were also home to almost every new business
                    enterprise that located in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     during this period. Significantly, racial issues had a crucial bearing on the most
                    important local initiative to reverse the decline of the inner city in the two decades following the
                        war.46
            
            In mid-1946 civic leaders conceived a plan to construct intersecting expressways across the heart of
                    the city as part of a campaign to revive the economic potential of the downtown business district
                    and make it a more attractive location for new enterprise. With rapid road communication a strategic
                    necessity for every business 
                  
                     44 Kearns, "A Study of the Social and Economic Conditions of
                            the Negro Population of Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ," 43; Robert Wilkerson to Reginald Johnson, March 14, 1960, Affiliates
                            File 54, Housing Activities Department, NULR. For an interesting analysis of school
                            segregation in another Hoosier city see Ronald D. Cohen, "The Dilemma of School
                            Integration in the North: Gary, Indiana, 1945-1960," Indiana Magazine
                                of History, LXXXII (June, 1986), 161-84.
                  
                     45 Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, August 2, 1948.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., "Progress Edition," May 27, 1958.
               
                    
                    
                  ARTIST'S CONCEPTION OF PROPOSED EAST-WEST EXPRESSWAY IN FORT WAYNE, 1949
                  From Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Municipal Review, X (September, 1946), courtesy of Fort 
                                Wayne
                             & 
                                Allen County
                             Public Library
               
                     with a regional or national market, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's narrow roads and numerous railroad intersections had become the metaphorical
                    equivalent of hardened arteries for the central city. The Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     Parkway, as the expressway project became known, was seen as the only solution to the
                    daily hazard of traffic congestion.47
                    
                  Chicago, Detroit, Louisville
               , Milwaukee,
                    and other cities were considering similar schemes as panaceas for downtown revitalization. Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's Republican administration and the Chamber of Commerce were eager to be in the
                    forefront of this development to symbolize their city's enterprise and initiative, but popular
                    opinion did not reflect their enthusiasm. In late 1946 expressway opponents formed the Property
                    Owners and Taxpayers Association (POTA) to lobby against the project.48
            
            Many people complained that the parkway project necessitated massive demolition of existing housing
                    units that would displace 15 percent of the city's population at a time when local housing was in
                    short supply. Owner-occupants and businessmen whose properties were likely to be razed to make way
                    for the new roads expressed concern that they would not receive market-value compensation. Other
                    citizens predicted that the project would impose a long-term debt on local taxpayers because Fort 
                        Wayne
                     had to bear 15 percent of total project costs, officially estimated at $27
                    million but expected by expressway opponents to be far in excess of this figure.49 Racial factors, however, were the principal cause of opposition. Because the east-west
                    expressway would run through the heart of the east-central district, black residents would have to
                    be relocated elsewhere. White working-class and lower-middle-class property owners feared for the
                    values of their homes if their neighborhoods were subject to black settlement. Although POTA's
                    leaflets, advertisements, and other printed statements made no mention of race, the anti-expressway
                    movement conducted a "whispering campaign" that planted this fear firmly in the
                    heart of the white community.50 Local supporters of the project tried to dispel
                    such anxiety with a counter-campaign, but statements by federal officials provided their opponents
                    with ammunition. 
                  
                     47 State Highway Commission of Indiana, "Highway Plan for
                            Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana," July, 1946, copy, Box 1, Henry Branning Papers (
                                Allen County
                            -Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Historical Society).
                  
                     48 Tort 
                                Wayne
                             Forward," Highway Highlights, 1947, pamphlet (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            —
                                Allen County
                             Public Library); Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, August 27, 1946, October 6, 1947.
                  
                     49 See antihighway advertisements by the Committee of Citizens in Fort 
                                Wayne
                             News-Sentinel, November 11, December 7, 1946; and report of City Council
                            meeting on the project in ibid., November 13, 1946.
                  
                     50 In interviews conducted by the author in March, 1980, veterans of
                            the 1947 election/referendum campaigns—E. Ross Adair (Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Republican party chairman), Paul Mike Burns (Democratic candidate for
                            councilor-at-large), and Charles Westerman (Democratic precinct committeeman)—all
                            agreed about the significance of the race issue. For editorial comment on the whispering
                            campaign see Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, September 22, 27, 1947.
               
                     In a speech at Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's Wheatley Center, for example, William Hill, 
                        Chicago
                     race relations adviser to the Federal Housing Administration, urged the city
                    authorities to relocate displaced blacks on an open housing basis.51
            
            In spite of popular opposition, the Republican-controlled City Council approved the expressway scheme
                    on December 10, 1946, but the POTA carried the battle to the state legislature. Primarily as a
                    result of lobbying by the taxpayers' association, the Indiana Senate rejected a bill creating a
                    special taxing district to pay the city's share of project costs. The only alternative was a general
                    increase in local property taxes. Nervous about the political repercussions of such an increase,
                    Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's administration decided to submit the expressway project to a referendum, to be held
                    at the time of the 1947 local elections. It was hoped that this would give supporters the
                    opportunity to mold public opinion in favor of the scheme.52
            
            The regular Democratic organization, led by businessmen and lawyers who backed the project, agreed to
                    remain neutral on the issue, but their candidate was surprisingly beaten in the mayoral primary.
                    Seeing the expressway controversy as a means to regain control of the local party, old-line
                    Democrats who had been ousted from power in the factional battles of the 1930s backed the candidacy
                    of Henry Branning, a realtor who was a strong opponent of open housing and a critic of the Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     Parkway. Banning's nomination insured that the issue remained in the forefront of local
                    politics. Realizing that the highway controversy was the key to an election victory, Democrats used
                    their precinct organizations to keep neighborhood concern about black relocation at a strong pitch
                    and spread the word that the Republicans could not be trusted to abide by the outcome of the
                        referendum.53 This strategy neutralized the efforts of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Forward, a nonpartisan group created in July, 1947, to win over public opinion by
                    focusing attention on the economic benefits of the scheme, including new job creation. In November,
                    1947, voters rejected the expressway project by an emphatic majority of 24,786 (61.7 percent) to
                    15,364 (38.2 percent). Opposition was heaviest from the precincts in the pathway of the planned
                    roads, but only seven precincts, all representing high-income suburban neighborhoods, returned a
                    majority for the scheme. At the same time, the Democrats gained their only municipal victory in the
                    thirty-year period between 1929 and 1959, winning the mayorship with a 59.6 percent share of the
                    popular vote and making their first-ever clean sweep of city offices.54
            
            
               
                  51 Fort 
                            Wayne
                        
                        News-Sentinel, December 3, 1946.
               
                  52 Fort 
                            Wayne
                        
                        Journal-Gazette, December 11,1946, March 6, 7, April 22, 1947.
               
                  53 Fort 
                            Wayne
                        
                        News-Sentinel, May 5, 7, October 2, 1947. Author's interviews with E. Ross
                        Adair and Paul Mike Burns provided confirmation of Democratic tactics. The former avowed,
                        "It [the highway controversy] made Henry Branning mayor."
               
                  54 Fort 
                            Wayne
                        
                        Journal-Gazette, November 5, 1947; Fort 
                            Wayne
                        
                        News-Sentinel, November 5, 1947.
            
            
            African Americans voted overwhelmingly against the project. Black property owners, several of whom
                    were active in the POTA, feared that the financial compensation they would receive for their
                    east-side homes would be inadequate to allow them to buy a house elsewhere in the city. Black
                    tenants worried that they would end up with nowhere to live because white landlords would not rent
                    to them in other neighborhoods.55 By election day there was widespread anxiety
                    within the African-American community, encouraged by POTA propaganda, that half its members would be
                    made homeless. The best that could be hoped for, one black resident warned, was "to be
                    herded onto any unwanted land that is available," where conditions would be far worse than
                    in the east-central district.56 This comment referred to half-baked plans by
                    Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Forward to relocate displaced African Americans in a separate new "modeln
                    housing development. In a desperate effort to quash the issue of open housing, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Forward set up the Better Homes Foundation under white realtor E. H. Kilbourne to plan
                    black relocation. Known among the black population for his involvement with the Phyllis Wheatley
                    social center, Kilbourne promised that property owners would be compensated two-and-a-half times the
                    assessed value of their dwellings and that the east-side clearance would not take place until 1954.
                    Black critics of the highway scheme placed little credence in these reassurances, pointing out that
                    the Better Homes Foundation lacked capital and had no concrete plans about relocation.57 Judging from the effect of highway construction programs on African Americans in other
                    cities, notably 
                        Detroit
                    , such skepticism was well justified. By and large black neighborhoods ended up paying
                    the price of physical devastation without the compensation of better housing for what civic leaders
                    regarded as urban progress.58 By supporting the rebellion of white property
                    owners, African Americans avoided this fate in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . However bad conditions were in the east-central district, blacks rightly considered
                    them preferable to the consequences of massive urban reconstruction.
            One paradoxical consequence of the racially loaded anti-expressway campaign was the belated entry of
                    Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's black voters 
                  
                     55 For typical comments see Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Weekly Carrier, October 25, 1947, a newsletter produced by two black
                            members of POTA, copy, scrapbook, Box 1, Henry Branning Papers.
                  
                     56 James Nash, letter to the editor, Fort 
                        
                                    Wayne
                                 Journal-Gazette, October 6, 1947.
                  
                     57 Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, October 16, 1947; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, October 21, 1947; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Weekly Carrier, October 25, 1947.
                  
                     58 Beginning in the late 1940s, the most densely populated sections of
                            black 
                                Detroit
                             were devastated by highway construction that wiped out many of the city's black
                            institutions, including jazz clubs and the Saint Antoine branch of the YMCA. The problem of
                            expressway displacement continued through the 1950s. Public officials did little to assist
                            families forced to relocate—particularly hard hit were low-income renters-and
                            downplayed the high human costs involved. See Sugrue, Origins of the Urban
                                Crisis, 47-48.
               
                    
                    
                  YOUNGSTERS AT FORT WAYNE'S PHYLIS WHEATLEY CENTER
                  
                  Photo courtesy of 
                                Allen County
                             Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Historical Society
                into the Democratic coalition. In contrast to the trend among black voters in big northern
                    cities, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's African Americans had not turned Abraham Lincoln's portrait to the wall in the New
                    Deal era. Following its narrow victory in the 1934 municipal elections, the local Republican party
                    made a special effort to broaden its political base in the 1938 contest. Party members appealed to
                    the traditional GOP loyalties of black citizens, who had shown signs of deserting to the Democrats
                    in gratitude for New Deal efforts to alleviate mass unemployment. The Republicans mended fences by
                    nominating William Briggs, the first black candidate in the city's history, as justice of the peace
                    for 
                        Wayne
                     Township and promising to build a new  community
                    center in the black district.59 With national trends turning against the New
                    Deal, however, the GOP carried its whole ticket with ease and so had no further need to court the
                    black vote. Although Briggs continued to hold office until his death in 1950, he was powerless to
                    negotiate significant racial change. During the 1940s local Republicans supported segregation of
                    communal facilities, temporized over the construction of the community center, and restricted black
                    patronage to a bare minimum.
            African Americans gained scant reward for their partisan conversion since their support had been less
                    than crucial to the Democratic victory of 1947. Branning, the new mayor, was an avowed opponent of
                    open housing and public housing. His administration also colluded in the reimposition of segregation
                    in downtown hotels and restaurants after the 1949 state industrial union convention. Not until the
                    enactment of a strong state civil rights law in 1963 did segregation of downtown public
                    accommodations end in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    .60 Almost the only improvement in regard to racial issues during
                    Branning's term of office occurred in patronage politics. In 1949-1950 the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     police department took on five black patrolmen—hitherto there had only been
                    one "colored" officer—and the Public Welfare Department appointed its
                    first black social worker. In addition, the municipal utilities and the school board began to hire
                    blacks as laborers and cleaners. Not until 1952, however, was the first black school teacher
                    appointed; only under a Republican administration in 1956 did the municipal utilities employ a black
                    meter reader; and employment in the fire service remained closed to blacks until the 1960s.61 In spite of such limited rewards, blacks became progressively more active as
                    Democratic party workers in the east-central district throughout the 1950s. Eventually, in 1959,
                    barber John Nuckols was elected Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's first black councilman by the first district, winning easily over his Republican
                    opponent after carrying the Democratic primary against a white rival by two votes. Over the next
                    twenty years this district became something of a political island ruled over by black elected
                    officials, but their influence within the broad polity remained limited.62
            
            In response to the wartime stirring of civil rights activism in many parts of the nation, some blacks
                    sought to challenge racism 
                  
                     59 Morgan, "Fort 
                                Wayne
                             in the Great Depression: The New Deal Years," 376.
                  
                     60 For this legislation see Emma Lou Thornbrough, "Breaking
                            Racial Barriers in Public Accommodations in Indiana, 1935-1963," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIII (December, 1987), 301-43.
                  
                     61 Kearns, "A Study of the Social and Economic Conditions of
                            the Negro Population of Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ," 12-13; FWUL, Annual Report, 1951-1952, p. 4;
                            Julius Thomas to NUL Administration, "Field Report of Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Visit," May 23, 1960, Affiliates File 54, NULR; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, "Black Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Edition," November 25, 1979.
                  
                     62 See Nuckols interview in Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, "Black Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Edition," December 2, 1979.
               
                     through channels outside party politics. A local chapter of the
                    National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) was established in 1946, about
                    half of whose members were white. One of its black founders avowed, "We do want to wake
                    this very reactionary city to its often unrealized discriminations." The NAACP spearheaded
                    the challenge to segregation in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , seeking through words, deeds, and legal actions to put pressure on private and public
                    facilities that practiced Jim Crow. The association earned respect among African Americans for its
                    forthright stand but achieved only sporadic success before the enactment of the state civil rights
                    act of 1963.63
            
            Freed from its main task of organizing the recreational program of the Phyllis Wheatley social center
                    by the opening in 1948 of the biracial McCulloch community center, the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     chapter of the Urban League (FWUL) became increasingly involved in seeking to improve
                    housing and employment conditions for African Americans. The organization's activism was
                    constrained, however, because it remained tied to the white power structure through financial
                    dependence on the city's United Fund. Good relations with local elites enabled it to win small but
                    well-publicized successes in opening up new employment opportunities. In 1949, for example, Robert
                    Wilkerson, the executive secretary, persuaded Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's largest department store to hire its first black clerical worker. Nevertheless, the
                    FWUL was broadly perceived by blacks as a "white organization" that was allowed
                    occasional successes to keep racial trouble from brewing.64
            
            But the mass of black citizens showed little inclination to unite in challenging discrimination until
                    the national civil rights revolution of the 1960s. Several factors limited the potential for
                    protest, notably the absence of a sizable middle class, the continuing influence of the black clergy
                    who eschewed social activism and whose congregations formed subgroups among the African-American
                    community, and the view of recent newcomers from the South that racial conditions in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     were tolerable. In 1963 one survey of the black community concluded that it was
                    "an amorphous mass that is not geared to the accomplishment of much of any political or
                    social end."65
                    
                  
                     63 Joyce Humphrey to Ella Baker, January 7, 1946, Group 2, Branch
                            Files, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People Papers (Library of
                            Congress); R. Sommerfeld Associates, "The Report of a Study of the Socio-Economic
                            Circumstances of Negroes in Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ," 41-42.
                  
                     64 Kearns, "Report of Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Field Trip, June 20-22, 1950," Affiliates File, NULR; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, September 9, 1950; R. Sommerfeld Associates, "The
                            Report of a Study of the Socio-Economic Circumstances of Negroes in Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ," 44.
                  
                     65 R. Sommerfeld Associates, "The Report of a Study of the
                            Socio-Economic Circumstances of Negroes in Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ," 39-42, 49-50, quotation on 41; Kearns, "A Survey of the
                            Social and Economic Conditions of the Negro Population of Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ," 68-69; FWUL, Annual Report, 1950-1951, p.
                        5.
               
                     Another five years elapsed before blacks were aroused into mass
                    protest, and the issue that ignited opinion was school segregation.66
            
            From 1940 to 1960 jobs and housing were the main concerns of African Americans in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . Their experience on both these fronts replicated developments in big cities in some
                    respects but differed in others. Like metropolitan blacks, they found their employment opportunities
                    constrained by a combination of discrimination and structural change, but their status as latecomers
                    to the industrial city made their situation more precarious. The Fort 
                        Wayne
                     factory gates were only half open to them, and those who got inside lacked job security
                    and promotion prospects. In contrast to the post-World War I era, the opposition of white labor
                    constituted a greater obstacle to black occupational mobility than the racial prejudices of
                    management. In terms of housing, the process of black ghettoization was not as far advanced in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     as in large cities. According to historians Douglas Massey and Nancy Denton, at the end
                    of the 1960s "the average black city dweller lived in a neighborhood where the vast
                    majority of his or her neighbors were also black."67 As late as 1970,
                    however, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's African Americans lived in racially mixed neighborhoods. Neverthless, formal and
                    informal mechanisms to control black settlement had been in operation since the early 1940s. Black
                    Fort 
                        Wayne
                     may not have been a ghetto in the accepted metropolitan sense, but blacks were confined
                    to the most run-down parts of the inner city where substandard housing was widespread. At least
                    African Americans in this Hoosier city escaped the ravages of urban reconstruction visited on black
                    communities in many big cities, but it was significant that they were delivered from this evil by
                    the racism of white Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in the 1947 highway referendum. Overall, however, the case of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     attests more to the universality than to the diversity of the black urban experience in
                    the North in the mid-twentieth century. By 1960 racial discrimination in jobs and housing was as
                    firmly established in its own form in this Indiana industrial city as in the northern metropolises
                    where African Americans had settled in large numbers long before 1940.
            
               
                  66 In 1968 around six hundred people marched on City Hall for six days to
                        demand African-American representation on the Fort 
                            Wayne
                         school board and desegregation of Central High. At the start of the 1969 school
                        year, black parents boycotted two elementary schools for eight days in an effort to compel their
                        desegregation. Some 1,300 children were registered in alternative "freedom
                        schools" in six churches. Fort 
                            Wayne
                        
                        News-Sentinel, February 28, 1980.
               
                  67 Douglas Massey and Nancy Denton, American Apartheid:
                            Segregation and the Making of the Black Underclass (
                            New York
                        , 1993), 57.
            
            
            
               Table 1 Occupational Distribution of African Americans in Fort 
                            Wayne
                         and 
                            Allen County
                        , 1940-1970
               
                  Occupation
                  1940
                  1950
                  1960
                  1970
               
               
                  Professionals
                  4.0
                  2.2
                  2.5
                  5.5
               
               
                  Managers
                  2.5
                  2.8
                  2.1
                  2.1
               
               
                  Sales and clerical
                  4.0
                  4.2
                  7.7
                  11.0
               
               
                  Skilled workers
                  2.8
                  8.1
                  8.4
                  9.0
               
               
                  Semiskilled operatives
                  11.1
                  25.3
                  30.9
                  36.3
               
               
                  Laborers
                  17.1
                  19.8
                  12.5
                  7.9
               
               
                  Service workers
                  58.1
                  37.5
                  36.1
                  28.2
               
            
            
               
                  ∗ Figures are in percentages and are for Fort 
                            Wayne
                         in 1940 and 1950 and for 
                            Allen County
                         for 1960 and 1970
               Source: U.S., Sixteenth Census, 1940; Vol. II, part 2, Population, 972-76; U.S., Census, Seventeenth Census, 1950; Vol. II,
                        part 14, Population, 240-42; U.S., Census, Eighteenth Census,
                            1960: Vol. XLIX, Population and Housing, Census Tracts, 33; U.S.,
                        Census, Nineteenth Census, 1970: Vol. LXXIII, Population and
                            Housing, Census Tracts, 30.
            
         
         
         
            Willis S. Blatchley and Raymond S. Blatchley on Petroleum in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    : A Note
            
                    Keith L. Miller
                    ∗
                
            The history of oil and gas production in America begins in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Later, oil fields were found in the cis-
                        Mississippi
                     West, and 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana became leaders in the industry. In 1884 the Lima-Indiana Field was
                    discovered in northwestern 
                        Ohio
                    , then extended westward into east-central Indiana in 1886. Production there exceeded
                    the yield in any other area of the 
                        United States
                     in the 1890s. In the twentieth century petroleum production reached boom proportions in 
                        Illinois
                     along the Wabash River, particularly in Clark, Crawford, and
                    Lawrence counties. Known as the Southeastern 
                        Illinois
                     or Old 
                        Illinois
                    , the field opened in 1904 with a boom period from 1905 to 1912.1
            
            Petroleum geology, with its origins in the 1860s, advanced along with the oil fields. In the
                    forefront among petroleum geologists were Willis S. Blatchley and his son, Raymond S. Blatchley.
                    Willis Blatchley wrote about petroleum in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     and served as Indiana state geologist from 1894 to 1911. Raymond Blatchley became the
                    leading authority on the early petroleum fields of 
                        Illinois
                    . Both men achieved first rank in their profession although their works were not as well
                    known as those of many of their colleagues.2
            
            All petroleum geologists in the nineteenth and early-twentieth centuries labored under a
                    disadvantage. The practical oilmen, especially 
                  
                     ∗ Keith L. Miller holds a Ph.D. in history from Miami
                            University, 
                        Oxford, Ohio
                     . He taught for eight years at Frontier Community
                            College, 
                        Fairfield, Illinois
                     , in the heart of the 
                                Illinois
                             oil country.
                  
                     1 Edward Orton, "The Trenton Limestone as a Source of
                            Petroleum and Inflammable Gas in 
                                Ohio
                             and Indiana," in Eighth Annual Report of the 
                                    United States
                                 Geological Survey (2 parts, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1889), pt. 2, 483-662. See also Arthur John Phinney, "The
                            Natural Gas Field of Indiana," in Eleventh Annual Report of the 
                                    United States
                                 Geological Survey (2 parts, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1891), pt. 1, 579-742. For the nomenclature of rock formations consult
                            Grace C. Keroher, Lexicon of Geologic Names of the 
                                    United States
                                 for 1936-1960 (
                                United States
                             Geological Survey, Bulletin 1200, 3 vols.; 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1966).
                  
                     2 For the publications of Willis S. Blatchley see Blatchleyana: A List of the Published Writings of W. s. Blatchley… (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1930); and Blatchleyana II: A List of the Published Writings of
                                W. S. Blatchley… (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1939). Included among Raymond S. Blatchley's writings are Oil and
                                Gas in Bond, Macoupin and 
                                    Montgomery
                                 Counties, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                Illinois
                             State Geological Survey, Bulletin 28; 
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1914); and "The Indiana Oolitic Limestone Industry in
                            1907," in Thirty-Second Annual Report of the Indiana Department of
                                Geology and Natural Resources (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1908), 299-459.
               
                    
                    
                  WILLIS S. BLATCHLEY
                  
                  Reproduced from A Field Guide and Recollections: The David Dale
                                Owen Years to the Present: A Sesquicentennial Commemoration of Service by the Geological
                                Survey, edited by Robert H. Shaver (1987)
               
                     in the nineteenth century, preferred the old unscientific means
                    of petroleum prospecting and scorned the findings of the professionals. Not until 1917 when the Bulletin of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists began publication did
                    petroleum geology come of age.3
            
            The Blatchleys helped to lay the foundation for the study of petroleum reservoirs in the 
                        United States
                    . The early oil and gas reservoirs, especially in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , consisted of sandstones. In fact, oilmen and geologists alike believed that only
                    sandstones would produce petroleum. A surprise ensued with the discovery and development of the
                    Lima-Indiana Field because its petroleum reservoir came from the Trenton limestone that had been
                    transformed ages before into dolomite, a porous rock ideal for holding oil and gas.
            Early petroleum geologists, led by Edward Orton, discovered a distinctive structure for the
                    Lima-Indiana Field, which was on the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Arch, a huge regional anticline (an upfold or arch in the rock strata). Only that part
                    of the arch made up of dolomite produced petroleum. The arch bifurcated in eastern Indiana, the
                    eastern arm underlying northwestern 
                        Ohio
                     referred to as the Findlay Arch and the western arm trending northwestward in Indiana
                    called the Kanka-kee Arch.
            
               
                        Illinois
                     also had a distinctive structure for the storage of oil and gas. Known as the 
                        Illinois
                     Basin, it extended as a spoon-shaped depression under most of 
                        Illinois
                    , southwestern Indiana, and western 
                        Kentucky
                    . That portion of the 
                        Illinois
                     Basin producing petroleum in the prairie state's first oil boom derived from the
                    LaSalle Anticline, which trended in a northwest-southeast direction.
            The first oil from the 
                        Illinois
                     Basin was produced in 1865. At 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, Chauncey Rose drilled a hole near his hotel, the 
                        Terre Haute
                     House. Seeking water, he found oil instead in limestone at 1,629 feet. The output was
                    about two barrels a day.4 That discovery of oil occurred only six years after
                    Edwin L. Drake ushered in the modern petroleum industry with a well near Titusville, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
            Petroleum production in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     did not amount to much for several years. Major output in Indiana came with the opening
                    of the Lima-Indiana Field extension in 1886. 
                        Illinois
                     then entered the picture with its first oil boom in 1905, the same year as the
                    foundation of the 
                        Illinois
                     State Geological Survey. That organization, soon after its establishment, commissioned
                    Willis Blatchley to study the Old 
                        Illinois
                     Field. The result was The Petroleum Industry
                    
                  
                     3 The Bulletin of the American Association of Petroleum
                                Geologists continues today as the major journal in the field of petroleum geology.
                  
                     4 Willis S. Blatchley, "The Petroleum Industry in Indiana in
                            1906," in Thirty-First Annual Report of the Indiana Department of
                                Geology and Natural Resources (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1907), 539.
               
                    
                    of Southeastern 
                            Illinois
                        
               , published in 1906.5 By the time of that report Blatchley
                    had authored numerous accounts of various aspects of the oil industry, including many for the
                    Indiana Department of Geology and Natural Resources. Those comprehensive reports became the major
                    source, with the addition of Orton's work, for the information on the Lima-Indiana Field.
            The 
                        Illinois
                     Basin yields oil and gas from rocks of Paleozoic age. So, too, does the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Arch province. Without the chemical reaction known as dolomitization, however, that
                    province would not have produced petroleum. Willis Blatchley wrote about that transformation.
                    According to the molecular replacement theory, calcium carbonate was replaced by dolomite in a
                    chemical reaction. Blatchley gave the formula—2 CaCO3, +
                        MgCl2 = CaMg(Co3)2 + Ca
                        C12 (two molecules of calcium carbonate plus one molecule of chloride of
                    magnesia equal two molecules of dolomite plus one molecule of calcium chloride)—and went
                    on to state: 
                        Wherever the above change took place, which was only in the shallow, briny areas noted, the
                            resulting dolomite was porous. This porous condition was due to the fact that the new
                            crystals of dolomite were smaller than, and never entirely filled the spaces occupied by,
                            the older crystals of lime carbonate. In other words each crystal of dolomite occupies less
                            space than it did as a crystal of lime. Therefore, between each is a void or small pore
                            which gives space for gas, oil or water, and allows the rapid passage of these substances
                            through the changed limestone.6
                  
                     Oil and gas entrapped with dolomitized Trenton limestone is normally found in the upper
                    thirty feet of the formation. In some cases, however, the dolomite occurred "at 50 feet and
                    more rarely as much as 100-200 feet below the top of the Trenton."7
                    Whatever the horizon, there was much oil and gas to be found.
            In the early days gas production was more important than the oil output in Indiana. In 1886 a well at 
                        Kokomo
                     in 
                        Howard County
                     produced the first commercial quantity of gas. Production peaked around 1900, when
                    $7,255,000 worth of natural gas was marketed. The first commercial yield of oil, on the
                    other hand, was in 1889 in east-central Indiana. In that year 25,000 barrels went to market.8 According to 
                  
                     5 Willis S. Blatchley, The Petroleum Industry of
                                Southeastern 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                Illinois
                             State Geological Survey, Bulletin 2; 
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1906).
                  
                     6 Blatchley, "The Petroleum Industry in Indiana in
                            1906," 442.
                  
                     7 J. Ernest Carman and Wilbur Stout, "Relationship of
                            Accumulation of Oil to Structure and Porosity in the Lima-Indiana Field," in Problems of Petroleum Geology: A Sequel to Structure of Typical American Oil
                                Fields, ed. W. E. Wrather and F. H. Lahee (Tulsa, Okla., 1934), 528. The Trenton
                            limestone is of Ordovician age within the Paleozoic Era of rocks. R. Dee Rarick, The Petroleum Industry—Its Birth in 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 and Development in Indiana (Indiana Geological Survey, Occasional
                            Paper 32; 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1980), 7.
                  
                     8 Ralph Arnold and William J. Kemnitzer, Petroleum in the 
                                    United States
                                 and Possessions: A Presentation and Interpretation of the Salient Data of
                                Geology, Technology, and Economics of Petroleum in Each State and Possession Treated
                                According to the Conventional Major Field Divisions (
                                New York
                            , 1931), 258-59.
               
                     Willis Blatchley, the commercial output there commenced with a
                    well drilled "by the Northern Indiana Oil Company, on the D. A. Bryson farm near Keystone, 
                        Chester
                     Township, 
                        Wells County
                    ." The oil production from the Trenton limestone reached 2,335,293 barrels in
                    1893 and peaked in 1904 with 11,281,030 barrels.9
            
            In the annual report of the Indiana Department of Geology and Natural Resources for 1897, Willis
                    Blatchley, then state geologist, discussed the organic and inorganic theories of the origin of oil
                    and gas. Blatchley supported T. Sterry Hunt's organic theory, which had first been proposed in the
                    early 1860s. Known as the primary decomposition theory, it stated that petroleum had "been
                    formed from the remains of animals or plants in the rock strata now yielding the
                    oil…." The oil and gas did not migrate from their origin in the shales; instead,
                    the animal or plant remains "passed directly into petroleum which has since remained in the
                    rocks where it was formed." According to Blatchley, "the fads gathered and
                    observations made in the Trenton-limestone fields of these States [
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana] have furnished much evidence in support of his [Hunt's] theory."
                    Scientists, said Blatchley, accepted the notion that limestone and oil resulted from "the
                    direct decomposition of organisms originally inhabiting the water in which the rock was
                        deposited."10
            
            Most petroleum geologists from the late-nineteenth century to the present have agreed with Willis
                    Blatchley that organic theories for the origin of oil and gas comport better with the known facts on
                    the formation of petroleum than do the inorganic theories. Blatchley also observed that inorganic
                    theories, such as those of M. Berthelot and Dimitriy Ivanovich Mendeljeff, were
            
                    to say the least, not only crude and unscientific, but… productive of much harm, in
                        that they tend to cause the masses to believe that natural gas and petroleum are being formed as
                        fast as they are used. Such a belief is responsible for much of the reckless waste which has
                        taken place in the gas fields of Indiana in the past; a waste which has already brought the
                        stored supply down close to the limit at which the natural rock pressure of the gas is overcome
                        by salt water."
                
            In his report for 1897 Willis Blatchley also gave the approximate cost for the first well in the
                    Lima-Indiana Field. The amount was based upon a well drilled to a depth of one thousand feet. The
                    rig cost $275, with the additional expense of $500 for drilling. The total
                    outlay reached $2,180.12
            
            In a report in 1903 Willis Blatchley treated petroleum prospecting in Indiana in some detail. He
                    observed that there were no surface 
                  
                     9 Blatchley, "The Petroleum Industry in Indiana in
                            1906," 534-35, quotation on 436.
                  
                     10 Willis S. Blatchley, "The Petroleum Industry in
                            Indiana," in Twenty-First Annual Report of the Indiana Department of
                                Geology and Natural Resources (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1897), 34-38, quotations on 37, 38.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 35.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 89.
               
                     indications of oil and gas in the state. Petroleum existed
                    "only at depths ranging from 500 to 1,600 feet below the surface." Then, too,
                    there were no trends of a northwest-southeast or northeast-southwest direction to follow in the
                    search for oil and gas pools. For that reason, as Blatchley noted, oil and gas "operations
                    in Indiana have always an element of chance connected with them." The state geologist also
                    discounted the use of "hazel rods or what not." He stated: "There is one
                    instrument, and but one, that can be used in locating oil, and that is the drill. All others are and
                    ever will be humbugs…."13
            
            In his report of 1907 Blatchley commented on the decrease in petroleum production in Indiana for
                    1905. One reason for the decline involved a decrease in the price for oil and gas. In addition, the
                    beginning of the boom in southeastern 
                        Illinois
                     in 1905 and the development of fields in mid-continental 
                        United States
                     attracted oil operators away from Indiana. In that regard Blatchley complained:
                    "The average oil operator is much like the gold prospector. He is usually eager to let the
                    bird in hand escape when he sees or hears of a new one in the bush."14
            
            Willis Blatchley's knowledge about petroleum in Indiana, especially in the Lima-Indiana Field, came
                    in large part from the findings of the drill. Information gained from the boring of thousands of
                    holes indicated that four conditions must be met "before an accumulation and preservation
                    of oil in commercial quantities can take place": a porous stratum of the Trenton rock to
                    form a reservoir, an impervious cover above the reservoir, an arched or anticlinal structure of the
                    rock in which the reservoir is located, and a pressure behind the oil to force it into the
                    reservoir. The impervious cover for the Trenton limestone was about two hundred feet of Utica
                        shale.15
            
            In Willis Blatchley's day the pressure behind the oil and gas was known as rock pressure.
                    "Sometimes," Blatchley wrote, "this pressure is so great that when the
                    oil stratum is reached the boring tools are expelled from the drill hole, and the oil escapes in a
                    fountain, rising high above the derrick, much of it being lost before the flow can be
                        controlled."16 That rock pressure resulted from the presence of
                    large quantities of water impinging on the petroleum from the side and came to be called
                    water-drive.
            Like his father, Raymond S. Blatchley published extensively on oil fields and oil production.
                    Although he specialized in 
                        Illinois
                     petroleum, he first wrote an interesting article for the Indiana Department 
                  
                     13 Willis s. Blatchley, "The Petroleum Industry in Indiana in
                            1901," in Twenty-Sixth Annual Report of the Indiana Department of
                                Geology and Natural Resources (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1903), 304-306, quotations on 305, 306.
                  
                     14 Blatchley, "The Petroleum Industry in Indiana in
                            1906," 437.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 441-43, quotation on 441.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 445.
               
                     of Geology and Natural Resources on the 
                        Princeton
                     oil and gas field. Located in 
                        Gibson County
                     along the Wabash River in southwestern Indiana, that field dated
                    from 1891 when William R. Wright of 
                        Princeton
                     drilled the Evans well on the eastern edge of town. Wright obtained enough gas
                    "to pipe it to the courthouse yard and burn it, so attracting public interest to his
                    well." Four additional wells were soon bored nearby, but none of the five holes produced
                    gas in commercial quantities.17
            
            The commercial production of petroleum in the 
                        Princeton
                     area came with the twentieth century. On January 16, 1902, Seth Ward, Sr., S. T.
                    Heston, Eugene Criswell, G. E. Bryant, Harry Kurtz, and J. W. Archer, businessmen from the town,
                    organized the Interstate Oil and Gas Company. They leased three thousand acres in the neighborhood
                    of 
                        Princeton
                     and shortly thereafter drilled a hole on the Charles Brownlee farm, one-half mile north
                    of the town limits. Drillers hit a six-foot-thick deposit of asphaltum at 450 feet before abandoning
                    the well at a depth of 1,453 feet. At 869 feet a small amount of oil appeared in the hole with an
                    additional showing at 1,026 feet. Although that failure discouraged the operators for a time,
                    commercial quantities of oil were found in the 
                        Princeton
                     field by May, 1903.18
            
            In 
                        Illinois
                    , Raymond Blatchley worked under Frank W. DeWolf, director of the 
                        Illinois
                     State Geological Survey. As the geologist in charge of oil studies, Blatchley prepared
                    a classic report on a part of the 
                        Illinois
                     oil fields. He began the study in 1908 with "a final review in 1911."
                    The final report, as printed in 1913, represented "the most comprehensive subsurface work
                    since [Edward] Orton's classic study of the Trenton limestone of 
                        Ohio
                    -Indiana."19
            
            A series of maps, "about 15 in number," accompanied Bulletin 22. As Raymond
                    Blatchley stated, "The method of study was to map by means of contour lines, or lines
                    through points of equal altitude, the geologic structure of the producing sands…. These
                    maps show the oil sand as if everything above it had been removed.20
            
            The Blatchleys, father and son, contributed significantly to the literature of oil and gas. Their
                    studies remain some of the most authoritative 
                  
                     17 Raymond s. Blatchley, "The 
                                Princeton
                             Petroleum Field of Indiana," in Thirty-First Annual
                                Report of the Indiana Department of Geology and Natural Resources, 563-64,
                            quotation on 563.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 562, 564.
                  
                     19 Raymond S. Blatchley, The Oil Fields of Crawford and
                                Lawrence Counties (
                                Illinois
                             State Geological Survey, Bulletin 22; 
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1913). Quotations in Edgar Wesley Owen, Trek of the Oil
                                Finders: A History of Exploration for Petroleum (American Association of Petroleum
                            Geologists, Memoir 6; Tulsa, Okla., 1975), 229.
                  
                     20 Blatchley, The Oil Fields of Crawford and Lawrence
                                Counties, 11. Before the publication of this report Raymond Blatchley wrote
                            "The Structural Relations of the Oil Fields of Crawford and Lawrence Counties, 
                                Illinois
                            ," Economic Geology, VII (September, 1912), 574-82.
               
                     accounts of petroleum in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     and deserve to be better known. The petroleum geologists and oil operators who came
                    after them, not only those in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     but also those in the 
                        United States
                     at large, owe much to their research and writing.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               We Now Know: Rethinking Cold War History. By John Lewis Gaddis.
                            (
                  Oxford, England
               : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1997. Pp. x, 425. Notes, bibliography, index. $30.00.)
            The Cold War lasted as long as the period between the Franco-Prussian War and World War I (about
                    forty-four years). The earlier period has long been a happy hunting ground for diplomatic
                    historians, who have produced a library of monographs, source collections, and interpretive
                    syntheses on the subject. We are now filling bookshelves with Cold War histories, mostly written
                    from a one-sided viewpoint reflecting limited access to archives. In his latest book John Lewis
                    Gaddis calls for a new generation of Cold War synthesists, using archival material from the 
                        Soviet Union
                    , the 
                        Warsaw
                     bloc, 
                        China
                    , and North 
                        Korea
                     in addition to much Western material hitherto shut away. He modestly confesses that he
                    himself relies on secondary sources here instead of direct archival access, and he specifies and
                    recants errors in his past books—for example, on the outcome of the Cuban missile crisis.
            The organization of the book turns out to be quite different from most syntheses on the background
                    and causes of World War I. After a brief introduction on World War I and the interwar period, Gaddis
                    progresses from the last years of World War II through the Cuban missile crisis, moving back and
                    forth through these years, subject by subject: World War II settlement, rival empires and
                    ideologies, nuclear arms, 
                        Germany
                    , and the Third World. Unfortunately, instead of increasing the detail and intensity of
                    the analysis as it approaches the collapse of the 
                        Soviet Union
                    , he breaks off in the mid-1960s and ends by laying out guidelines for a "new
                    Cold War history." The 1970s and 1980s are barely mentioned; for example, the Reagan
                    administration is relegated to a noncommittal paragraph.
            This organization grows out of Gaddis's latest interpretation of the Cold War. According to him,
                    communism collapsed because of "internal contradictions" between authoritarianism
                    and capitalism. In his words, "reforms intended to restore competitiveness shattered
                    authority both internally and within the international communist movement" (p. 191). This
                    determinist thesis is already familiar to historians. But Gaddis does not reject the role of
                    leaders—indeed, the errors of Joseph Stalin loom large in explaining many of the Western
                    successes, for more than once his measures brought about the very effects they were intended to
                    avoid. Also the rest of Gaddis's analysis is mostly devoted to diplomatic strategy and manipulation,
                    military advances, and ideological friction. If communism was doomed to fail, it was apparently
                    pushed to its doom by the actions of Soviet and Western statesmen.
            
            Samples of Gaddis's views on the principal problems of Cold War historiography during the 1940s,
                    1950s, and 1960s will show how he handles these problems in the context of his general thesis. He
                    accepts Harry Truman's explanation of dropping the A-bomb—that it was a military measure
                    to end the war quickly—and shows that the 
                        United States
                     gained only brief nuclear hegemony thereafter and could not even use the bomb as the
                    basis for aggressive diplomacy. On one hand Stalin created an empire in eastern Europe through
                    deliberate action, careful to avoid a war he did not have the strength to fight, while on the other
                    hand American strength was usually prepared to thwart any planned Soviet empire-building. Stalin
                    risked the success of his plans by failing to restrain the brutality of Soviet soldiers, especially
                    in East 
                        Germany
                    , and by failing to build some flexibility into the 
                        Warsaw
                     Pact. In contrast, the 
                        United States
                     encouraged democracy by flexible occupation policies in 
                        Germany
                     and 
                        Japan
                     and cooperation with the European allies in NATO—and with the help of the
                    frightening Soviet acts.
            Gaddis uses monographic literature in describing the complicated three-way diplomacy between the
                    USSR, the Chinese communists, and North 
                        Korea
                     that led to the Korean War, but he explains the end of the war more
                    simply—the death of Stalin removed the one man who favored continuing it because it
                    revealed American weakness. During the 1950s, Gaddis goes on, any chance to end the Cold War failed
                    because neither side would tolerate the other's world view or wanted to risk war to realize its own.
                    As for the Chinese, they appear here and there throughout the last half of the book. At first Mao
                    Zedong often imitated Soviet methods—Gaddis suggests that the Great Leap Forward was
                    partly inspired by the Stakhanovite speedup. Eventually Mao came to respect Stalin less and less
                    because he gave insufficient aid during the Korean War, but he continued to believe in Soviet
                    military power into the 1960s.
            As that decade began, the USSR seemed superior to the U.S. in military matters, while the Americans
                    tended to undervalue their more genuine political, economic, and ideological advantages. But Nikita
                    Khrushchev's apparent military margin was the product of "Potemkinism," by which
                    Gaddis means Khrushchev's penchant for bluffing about weapons. This practice led Mao, the East
                    German Walter Ulbricht, and Fidel Castro to expect more military support from the Soviets than
                    Khrushchev was prepared to give. Gaddis also faults Dwight Eisenhower for overemphasizing nuclear
                    weapons at the risk of making war seem so terrible as to be impossible. For his part, John F.
                    Kennedy created his own risk by allowing the defense department to reveal its understanding of
                    Khrushchev's boasting and thereby "expose Moscow's Maximum Leader onstage and in full view
                    of the audience as the Wizard of OZ" (p. 259).
            The climax of Gaddis's account of these deceptions and misunderstandings is, of course, the Cuban
                    missile crisis. He thinks  Khrushchev interpreted the Bay of Pigs
                    attempt to invade 
                        Cuba
                     as showing not so much American weakness as American aggressiveness and expected the 
                        United States
                     to invade again with a stronger force. While Gaddis joins those historians who have
                    attributed the missile crisis to Khrushchev's desire to protect Castro, he finds the fundamental
                    cause in the Soviet realization that the USSR was losing the Cold War. He differs from the majority
                    view of the crisis in rating Kennedy's handling of it less tough and Khrushchev's victory more
                    substantial than imagined. Thereafter Americans were content with a military faceoff, unaware or
                    ignoring that this was the only part of the contest in which the Soviets could make a respectable
                    showing. As a result, the Cold War continued for over two more decades, although its outcome was
                    already determined.
            This is hardly the last word on the subject. For example, Ronald Reagan's admirers will insist that
                    Star Wars and America's increased defense spending during the 1980s so overburdened the Soviets'
                    economy that the whole system broke down. Other explanations will have their partisans too. We shall
                    need more archival materials and preliminary monographs before we can reliably explain the 1970s and
                    1980s. Then future synthesizers can fit the last half of the Cold War onto the first half and
                    complete the analysis that Gaddis has begun here. By that time the Korean War, the missile crisis,
                    and MIRV will have joined the Russo-Turkish War, the Bosnian crisis, and Dreadnought as features on
                    the landscape of modern diplomatic history.
            DAVID M. PLETCHER, professor emeritus of history at
                    Indiana University, is the author of The Diplomacy of Annexation: 
                     Texas, Oregon
                  , and the Mexican War (1973) and a sequel forthcoming, entitled
                        The Diplomacy of Trade and Investment: American Economic Expansion in the
                        Hemisphere, 1865-1900.
            
         
         
            
               Tecumseh: A Life. By John Sugden. (
                        New York
                    : Henry Holt and Company, 1998. Pp. xi, 492. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $34.95.)
            Few Native American leaders have received more popular and scholarly attention than the Shawnee
                    warrior Tecumseh (c. 1768-1813). John Sugden, a British scholar who previously wrote Tecumseh's Last Stand (1985), presents a thoroughly researched and authoritative study of
                    this chieftain. It should remain the standard study for years to come.
            Central to Sugden's biography is the thesis that Tecumseh was "the most ambitious of a small
                    number of leaders who dreamed of a brotherhood of tribes capable of resisting white expansion, and
                    who tried to replace intertribal indifference and conflict with unity and common purpose"
                    (p. ix). This argument rests upon at least two critical assumptions: that war was the only solution
                    to the Indians' dilemma and that intertribal cooperation was feasible. Sugden never  confronts the first assumption and never proves that a significant
                    "Tecumseh coalition" existed. For Sugden, as for Tecumseh and his prophetic
                    brother Tenskwatawa, preservation of a hunting-based society and traditional religious values
                    justified an alliance with the perfidious British. Sugden fails to consider the policy pursued by
                    the majority of Shawnees under the leadership of Black Hoof and William Anderson, i.e., adapting to
                    the Euro-American's values and economic system in order to salvage a modified Indian culture in the
                    American Middle West. The rivalry between the accommodationist and warrior wings of the Shawnee and
                    other middle-western tribes reached the intensity of inter-and intratribal warfare. It finally
                    resulted in William Henry Harrison's having more Shawnee warriors at the battle of the Thames than
                    did Tecumseh.
            Sugden has done a prodigious amount of work in primary and secondary sources. He openly confronts
                    contradictory evidence and comes to his own conclusions regarding tribal and family movements. There
                    are so many blanks in the Shawnee brothers' background and conduct that any biographer must resort
                    to supposition and conjecture to fill in the spaces and use conditional verbs and cautionary
                    clauses. Sugden knows all too well that in "many episodes of Tecumseh's life, the truth has
                    been buried beneath mythology" (p. 182).
            Although diligent readers will find his bibliography extensive, they might wish he had consulted the
                    recent studies by Harvey Lewis Carter on Little Turtle, Leroy Eid on Indian tactics, and Larry
                    Nelson on the battle of Fort Recovery. Their conclusions might have enlarged his perspective on the
                    quarter-century struggle for the land between the Great Lakes and the 
                        Ohio River
                    . At times he does not seem to have assimilated fully the findings of Colin Calloway,
                    Gregory Evans Dowd, R. David Edmunds, and Richard White.
            Sometimes Sugden falls into the biographer's trap, becoming so close to his subject that he sees the
                    world from Tecumseh's perspective. He contends, for example, that the Shawnee warrior "Blue
                    Jacket had been the most important leader of the northwestern confederacy of the 1790s" (p.
                    131). Most would give principal leadership in the disastrous defeat of the 
                        United States
                     Army at the battle of the 
                        Wabash
                     in 1791 to the Miami chieftain Little Turtle. He sometimes exaggerates, e.g., in
                    describing the small engagement at Brownstown, 
                        Michigan
                    , in 1812 as "one of the most remarkable victories in Indian history: seldom
                    had so inferior a force administered so severe a defeat at such little loss to themselves"
                    (p. 293). In another instance, Sugden makes Tecumseh, not General Sir Isaac Brock, "a
                    principal architect" (p. 305) in the surrender of the American garrison at 
                        Detroit
                    .
            The central problem with any study of Tecumseh lies with determining just how much influence the
                    Shawnee warrior had in developing a united opposition to American advancement. In all probability
                    the Red Stick faction of the Creeks would have warred with the whites and many of their fellow
                    tribesmen regardless of whether Tecumseh  had visited the South.
                    Credit for bringing the Chippewa and Sioux warriors to fight on the 
                        Detroit
                     frontier should be given more to British fur trader Robert Dickson than to either
                    Tecumseh's persuasiveness or Tenskwatawa's prophecies. Sugden's arguments to the contrary
                    notwithstanding, the powerful Maumee-Wabash valley confederacy of the 1790s had
                    little to do with Mohawk chieftain Joseph Brant and focused more on the Miamis than the Shawnees.
            Sugden writes with verve and a compelling style. For instance, he describes William Hull as
                    "turning his problems into dragons" just before the general surrendered 
                        Detroit
                     (p. 298). Sugden's conclusion summarizes the entire book "Among all the
                    leaders in that brave but futile Indian revolt, Tecumseh stands out because of his outstanding
                    versatility and energy. Not only was his ambition boundless, but his eloquence made him the voice of
                    the oppressed, his magnetism bound people to him, and he was an inspirational field
                    commander" (p. 401).
            Our fascination with Tecumseh reflects American support of an underdog who fights the good fight for
                    what are perceived to be good motives against great odds. But Tecumseh could not control his allies,
                    and their tactics and atrocities turned the Americans against all Indians. Tecumseh's war parties
                    destroyed the path sought by Black Hoof and Anderson. In the end, as his frequent opponent Lewis
                    Cass reported, Tecumseh sacrificed "the happiness of his people to his own impracticable
                    objects" (p. 401).
            DAVID CURTIS SKAGGS, professor emeritus
                    of history at Bowling Green State University, is coauthor of A Signal Victory: The
                            Lake Erie Campaign, 1812-1813 (1997).
         
         
            
               Towns & Villages of the Lower 
                            Ohio
                        . By Darrel E. Bigham. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1998. Pp. xiv, 334. Maps, illustrations, appendices, tables, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $39.95.)
            Historians have neglected the lower Ohio River valley for a long time, in part
                    because 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     developed early as important population, trade, and manufacturing centers and because
                    scholars have been more interested in the immigrants to the upper Midwest who settled the rich
                    prairie lands and labored in the industrial cities. Yet between 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , and
                    Clark and Floyd counties, Indiana, on the east, and Cairo, 
                        Illinois
                    , on the west, a host of towns and villages and twenty-four counties developed along a
                    350-mile stretch of the 
                        Ohio River
                    . Since the eighteenth century the river has drawn people together, and it helped make 
                        Evansville
                     the most important town in Indiana along the river. There large numbers of settlers
                    from New 
                        England
                     and the Middle Atlantic states shaped the political, economic, and social culture of
                    the town and region.
            Darrel E. Bigham has written a detailed narrative about town making along the lower 
                        Ohio River
                    . Bigham divides his study into four  parts by
                    analyzing town development before 1820, during the transportation revolution to 1850, in the Civil
                    War era to 1880 (including the decline in steamboat transportation and the rise of the railroads),
                    and during the age of industrialization to 1920. Thereafter, the automobiles and trucks, paved road
                    networks, corporate consolidation (particularly for railroads), and urbanization to the north
                    changed the region dramatically, removing the towns and people from their close association with the 
                        Ohio River
                    .
            Bigham makes his greatest contribution to our understanding of the lower Ohio
                    River valley when he discusses the river's effect on the social and cultural
                    relationships of the people who lived along it. Anyone interested in the history of Indiana will
                    appreciate his discussions of southern culture, the emergence of 
                        Evansville
                     as the chief urban center along the river, and Cairo's decline. Although 
                        Evansville
                     receives the most descriptive attention, Hoosiers will also find Bigham's discussions
                    of 
                  Mt. Vernon, Rockport
               , Tell City, 
                  Troy, Rome
               , Fredonia, 
                        Leavenworth
                    , Mauckport, 
                        Newburgh
                    , and 
                        Cannelton
                     important to any understanding of the state's history.
            Floods, river depth, county seat status, and cultural heritage as well as entrepreneurship, nearby
                    resources, and markets played important roles in the success or failure of settlements along the
                    lower 
                        Ohio River
                    . But Bigham clearly shows that the Ohio River not only shaped the
                    development of towns but also was changed by them, particularly by bridges and dams and the
                    exploitation of the natural resources along its banks. Without question this study will serve as a
                    useful reference for town making and development in the Midwest.
            R. DOUGLAS HURT, professor and director of the graduate
                    program in agricultural history and rural studies at 
                        Iowa
                     State University, is the author of The 
                        Ohio
                     Frontier: Crucible of the Old Northwest, 1720-1830 (1996) and Nathan 
                        Boone
                     and the American Frontier (1998).
         
         
            
               The First American Frontier: Transition to Capitalism in Southern Appalachia,
                        1700-1860. By Wilma A. Dunaway. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1996. Pp. xvii, 448. Maps, figures, tables, illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $49.95; paperbound, $21.95.)
            In this meticulously and extensively researched book sociologist Wilma A. Dunaway argues that the
                    frontier of southern Appalachia fits neatly into the modern world-system paradigm developed over the
                    last quarter century by Immanuel Wallerstein. Dunaway's study includes parts of nine states:
                            
                  Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee,
                            Virginia
               , and West 
                        Virginia
                    . Instead of viewing this region as an isolated, undeveloped frontier, she contends that
                    from its earliest settlement it was linked to the capitalist world system.
            
            Dunaway opens with a theoretical analysis of the transition to capitalism in southern
                    Appalachia—one of the arenas in which 
                  England,
                            France
               , and 
                        Spain
                     competed for "core" status in the world economy. Chapters two and
                    three deal with the incorporation of the Cherokee slave-fur trade into the world market and
                    landholding patterns. In chapter four Dunaway insists that farmers in the region used slave and wage
                    labor to produce marketable surpluses. Then in the next chapter she employs cliometric techniques to
                    counter the fiction of "subsistent homesteaders." Following a treatment of the
                    growth of antebellum industry, Dunaway devotes chapters to the region's supposed geographical
                    isolation and economic autonomy. In chapter nine Dunaway discusses the political and social
                    "articulation" of the region with the capitalist world system. The final chapter
                    traces the decline of the economy, which resulted in the deepening peripheralization of the region.
            This extremely complex work, filled with interpretive nuances and quantified data, touches on
                    virtually every aspect of life in southern Appalachia. Surely it will add to the considerable
                    historiographical disputes among western and frontier historians. In a sense, Dunaway's book may be
                    considered a companion to Patricia Limerick's work. Limerick views the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West in terms of conquest; Dunaway sees southern Appalachia from the perspective of
                    exploitation. Hence one supposes that the "new western" historians will be quite
                    comfortable with this book. Their critics definitely will not be.
            Whether or not one appreciates the author's point of view, the book is a veritable encyclopedia of
                    economic, geographical, political, and social data. Topics range from gold and coal mines to oil
                    wells, from slave cabins to elegant spas, from rivers to rails, from canal barges to steamboats,
                    from turkey drives to stockyards, from ethnicity to environment. Dunaway's discussion of labor
                    articulation with the world economy is particularly interesting, but her treatment of Cherokee
                    cultural disintegration is fairly standard. As do many historians, Dunaway views Thomas Jefferson as
                    simply a land grabber. This interpretation is a misreading of the sources.
            Dunaway describes her statistical techniques in a chapter-length appendix; Stanley A. Engerman and
                    Immanuel Wallerstein were among her readers. One does not have to be a quantifier, however, to
                    appreciate the author's exhaustive research. Her bibliography includes seven pages of manuscript
                    sources, nine pages of published primary sources, and thirty-one pages of secondary works. Some,
                    perhaps many, scholars who study the southern frontier will disagree with the thesis of The First American Frontier, but it is a work that for many years will be the subject of
                    considerable commentary and analysis.
            JOHN D. W. GUICE, professor of history at the University
                    of Southern 
                        Mississippi
                    , is coauthor of Frontiers in Conflict: The Old Southwest, 1795-1830
                    (1989) and is writing a history of the Natchez Trace.
         
         
         
            
               Fort Donelson's Legacy: War and Society in 
                            Kentucky
                         and 
                            Tennessee
                        , 1862-1863. By Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                     Cooling. (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press, 1997. Pp. xx, 408. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $38.00.)
            It is now generally believed by historians that the fall of Fort Donelson to the Union in February of
                    1862 was a truly decisive event in the Civil War. Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                     Cooling, one of the very best military historians of war in the West, is well aware of
                    this. He writes, "The western defense perimeter of the Confederacy had crumbled, rebel
                    forces from West 
                        Tennessee
                     and northwestern 
                        Kentucky
                     eventually withdrew all the way to northern 
                        Mississippi
                    " (p. 26). The almost uninterrupted Union advance in the West—where
                    the war was won and lost—may be said to have begun at Donelson, from which it proceeded,
                    sometimes haltingly, to Corinth, Stones River, Vicks-burg, 
                  Chattanooga, Atlanta
               , and the
                    March to the Sea. Cooling's intent, however, is not to tell this large story. As suggested by the
                    book's subtitle, War and Society in 
                            Kentucky
                         and 
                            Tennessee
                        , 1862-1863, his book concerns the relatively unknown, day-to-day war after
                    Donelson in those states, and it tells an interesting and grim tale of bushwhacking, guerrilla
                    warfare, and vengeance. The point is that this geography was strategically significant and contained
                    a volatile mix of citizens with deeply felt and conflicting loyalties to North and South. Once the
                    Confederacy's defeat at Donelson opened this area—the Mississippi
                    valley—to further Union penetration, it became a donnybrook of regular and
                    irregular warfare.
            Federal forces in this western theater were dominated by soldiers from Indiana and the other states
                    of the Old Northwest. Further, people from the upland South migrated to Indiana before, during, and
                    after the war. Thus, Hoosiers have a special relationship to this area. Cooling has dug deeply to
                    find this unknown story. It suggests a moral: civil wars are not nice for the combative people left
                    at home anymore than they are for the soldiers. This book is highly recommended.
            ALAN T. NOLAN, a lawyer in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is the author of The Iron Brigade (1961), Lee
                        Considered: General Robert E. Lee and Civil War History (1991), and coeditor
                        of Giants in Their Tall Black Hats: Essays About the Iron Brigade (1998).
         
         
            
               Dear Poppa: The World War II Berman Family Letters. Compiled by Ruth Berman.
                    Edited by Judy Barrett Litoff. (
                        St. Paul
                    : 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society Press, 1997. Pp. xxii, [317]. Notes, illustrations. Clothbound,
                    $29.95; paperbound, $15.95.)
            In her earlier books, most notably Since You Went Away: World War II Letters from
                        American Women on the Home Front, Judy Barrett Litoff collected previously neglected
                    writings of women who were separated from loved ones by war. Now she has edited a unique and
                    enjoyable volume of family letters. The Berman children of 
                        Minneapolis
                    
                     dictated hundreds of letters through their mother Isabel to
                    their father, army physician Reuben Berman. Dear Poppa provides "the
                    first significant opportunity to incorporate the actual wartime voices of America's children into
                    accounts of the Second World War," since William Tuttle used retrospective letters in the acclaimed "Daddy's Gone to War":
                        The Second World War in the Lives of America's Children (p. ix).
            Litoff s excellent introduction describes the family's adjustment to relocation, separation, and
                    other wartime hardships in the framework of the war's impact on millions, including many Hoosiers
                    who will identify with the Bermans. Sammy, five, struggled to comprehend "I wish you would
                    come back. That's all I want to say" (p. 15). David, nine, worried shortly after Reuben
                    left, "I hope you are not dead already" (p. 20). A mythical
                    "perfect" father developed: "everybody is older, meaner, and generally
                    not as nice as poppa" (p. 40). Sammy muddled fantasy with fear for and of poppa:
                    "I hope you don't get killed in the invasion. If you come back and spank me I will have the
                    right to make you feel badder than anything and tell you that you are not like Abraham Lincoln so
                    you had better not come back and spank me…. I hope you're not shot because if you're shot
                    I'll feel very bad because I would like to have a poppa, you same poppa, that same poppa"
                    (pp. 123-24). Isabel naturally hoped for Reuben's imminent return, acknowledging in November, 1943,
                    "putting off the purchase of overshoes in the hope that you might come back and we would go
                    someplace where overshoes are not needed" (p. 51).
            The war shaped play and entertainment. The children bought war bonds, enjoyed gender-differentiated
                    war toys, watched war movies, planted victory gardens, and even dreamed about the war. Thus
                    generally these were very ordinary children caught in "no ordinary time." Yet
                    while some aspects of their homefront experience were typical, others were not: these were
                    semiprivileged officer's children, unusually attentive to music lessons and to their Jewish
                    heritage. The Bermans should especially be saluted for their candor in depicting Isabel and Reuben's
                    religious differences. When David disdained his mother's Reform Judaism, Isabel appealed to Reuben:
                    "Now, you may have your views and I mine, but in your absence I am in charge. Some hint to
                    David that his parents agree on where he should go might be in order" (p. 128).
            Though Litoff might have illuminated the text more effectively with more annotation, she does
                    frequently include the parents' accompanying letters as reference points. The pictures and
                    illustrations include many poignant children's drawings. Daughter and compiler Ruth Berman also
                    provides a prelude and all-too-brief postlude. This attractively packaged volume should inspire more
                    families to dig through their attics and memories.
            KEVIN SMITH, associate professor of history at Ball State
                    University, is the author of Conflict over Convoys: Anglo-American Logistics Diplomacy
                        in the Second World War (1996).
         
         
         
            
               Rethinking American Indian History. Edited by Donald L. Fixico. (Albuquerque:
                    University of 
                        New Mexico
                     Press, 1997. Pp. x, 139. Notes, index. Clothbound, $30.00; paperbound,
                    $16.95.)
            The editor of this interesting collection of essays claims that "to rethink Native American
                    history is to use new theories and methodologies, and introducing this revisionist approach is the
                    purpose of this book" (p. 3). This "new version" of American Indian
                    history ostensibly challenges earlier scholarship. In fact, rather than rethinking the subject, most
                    of the authors merely review extant research published years or even decades ago. James Axtell
                    concludes that, despite imperfections, ethnohistory remains "the sharpest, most
                    comprehensive, most inclusive, most flexible tool we have" for writing the history of
                    America's native peoples (p. 23). William T. Hagan's "The New Indian History" is
                    essentially a bibliographical essay on the books he has collected over the last ten years. Those
                    interested in women's studies will find the fifteen pages of references accompanying the excellent
                    essays by Glenda Riley and Theda Perdue on the historiography and ethnohistory of native women very
                    useful. In "Indian Peoples and the Natural World," Richard White rejects the
                    upstreaming approach commonly used in ethnohistory and expresses a preference for traditional
                    historical practice. Donald L. Fixico concludes the collection with yet another bibliographical
                    essay.
            The least useful chapter was written by the only Native American contributor. In "Power of
                    the Spoken Word," Angela C. Wilson, a Dakota who is a doctoral student in history, comes
                    dangerously close to advocating a proprietary history controlled by insiders. First she accuses
                    historians of ignoring oral traditions, and then she insists that oral traditions should escape the
                    critical scrutiny commonly applied to written documents. In short, American Indian history must be
                    as native people perceive it and "should be kept beyond the reach of historical
                    analysis" (p. 114). The best "rethinking" involves striking a compromise
                    in the contested terrain between a traditional historical objectivism and a postmodernist-influenced
                    historical relativism. Wilson's extreme position is likely to be ignored and has already been
                    overshadowed by the efforts of many aboriginal people who reject the facile dichotomy between
                    Western and non-Western approaches.
            All of the contributors are professors or students of history in 
                        United States
                     universities, and this has had a significant impact on the book. First, there is an
                    emphasis on "Indians" who lived in what are now the forty-eight contiguous states.
                    This would hardly matter except for the following: when it comes to the indigenous inhabitants of
                    North America, the border between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     is largely irrelevant, and a great deal of the rethinking that has occurred has
                    actually been generated by Canadian scholars who long ago dropped the anachronistic appellation
                    "Indian" from their  professional discourse.
                    Second, it is axiomatic that exploring the past cultures of non-Western peoples who have occupied
                    this continent for thousands of years necessitates an interdisciplinary approach. While most of the
                    contributors are highly respected members of their academic guild, they simply do not have a command
                    of the voluminous anthropological, archaeological, and other literatures. The absence of essays from
                    representatives of these other disciplines is perhaps the book's greatest weakness.
            ALEXANDER VON
                    GERNET, professor of anthropology at the University of 
                        Toronto
                     at Mississauga, specializes in the interdisciplinary use of archaeological,
                    documentary, and oral sources to illuminate aboriginal pasts. He is currently writing a monograph on
                    the use and abuse of oral traditions in constructing histories of native peoples in North
                America.
         
         
            
               Thomas Jefferson and the Changing West: From Conquest to Conservation. Edited by
                    James P. Ronda. (Albuquerque: University of 
                        New Mexico
                     Press, in cooperation with 
                        Missouri
                     Historical Society Press, 1997. Pp. xx, 204. Maps, notes, index. Clothbound,
                    $29.95; paperbound, $16.95.)
            The nine wide-ranging essays published here were originally papers presented in 1994 at a conference
                    in 
                        St. Louis
                     sponsored principally by the 
                        Missouri
                     Historical Society and prompted by Merrill D. Peterson, the dean of Jeffersonian
                    scholars and the person to whom the volume is dedicated. James P. Ronda points out that Jefferson
                    described 
                        St. Louis
                     as "the center of our western operations." Although Jefferson himself
                    never ventured beyond the Appalachian Mountains, "
                        Monticello
                     faces West," reports Ronda in his helpful introduction, "and we
                    expect its builder to be somehow western as well" (p. xii). In fact, even before the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase of 1803 first brought a trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West to the 
                        United States
                    , Jefferson's vision of the country's republican destiny presupposed that white
                    Americans on the Atlantic seaboard would, for generations to come, have easy access to fresh lands
                    beyond the Alleghenies. Because land ownership seemed to him the surest foundation for the
                    independence and civic virtue that undergirded a healthy republican polity, Jefferson
                    "never doubted that the rural West was the ultimate guarantor of republican
                    virtue" (p. xvi).
            Readers interested in the manifold tensions between this Jefferson vision and the actual course of
                    western history will find much of value here. For example, anthropologist Anthony F. C. Wallace
                    devotes considerable attention to President Jefferson's correspondence with William Henry Harrison
                    when Harrison was governor of the Indiana Territory and superintendant of Indian Affairs for lands
                    north of the 
                        Ohio
                     and emphasizes that Jefferson's dealings with Native American tribes revealed
                    "the ruthlessness of a benevolent zealot who would do virtually anything to ensure that his
                    new, free  American republic survived and grew" (p. 39).
                    Peter Onuf provides arguably the best analysis available of Jefferson's tortured response to the 
                        Missouri
                     controversy of 1819-1820 over the westward expansion of slavery and black Americans.
                    Environmental policy analyst Robert Gottlieb, though he makes nary a reference to the Sage of 
                        Monticello
                    , highlights the irony of the mid-twentieth-century transformation of the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West into "evolving, intersecting empires" (p. 77) dominated by
                    metropolitan-military-industrial complexes like 
                        Denver
                    , San Diego, and Seattle. As Patricia Nelson Limerick asserts in the concluding essay,
                    "the second most complicated aspect of applying Jeffersonian thought to the contemporary
                    West, second after the issue of race, is the issue of the gap, and even the hostility, between the
                    rural West and the urban West" (p. 189).
            SHEARER
                    Davis
                    BOWMAN, associate professor of history at the University of 
                        Texas
                     at Austin, is the author of Masters and Lords: Mid-19th-Century U.S.
                        Planters and Prussian Junkers (1993).
         
         
            
               Filibusters and Expansionists: Jeffersonian Manifest Destiny, 1800-1821. By
                    Frank Lawrence Owsley, Jr., and Gene A. Smith. (
                        Tuscaloosa
                    : University of 
                        Alabama
                     Press, 1997. Pp. xi, 241. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            Although "Manifest Destiny" is a phrase used to describe American expansion in the
                    thirty years before the Civil War, the movement dates back to the beginning of the colonial era. The
                    first territorial expansionists were the first British settlers who planted their feet on the shores
                    of 
                        Virginia
                     in 1607. Territorial claims played a central role in all four of the Anglo-French
                    colonial wars in North America (1689-1763). Within twenty years of the British triumph in 1763, the 
                        United States
                     had become the principal arbiter of the New World.
            Even though the 
                        United States
                     emerged from the revolution with very generous boundaries, the nation's appetite for
                    territory was far from sated. In a remarkable half century (1803-1853), the 
                        United States
                     more than tripled its size. Nor did this expansionist impulse die out with the Civil
                    War. Casting its gaze overseas, the 
                        United States
                     in the Gilded Age established an empire that stretched from Alaska to 
                        Puerto Rico
                     in the New World and from 
                        Hawaii
                     to the Philippines in the Pacific. Depending on one's perspective, American expansion
                    was either the product of a great folk movement that realized Jefferson's noble vision of an Empire
                    for Liberty, or the story of a ruthless and aggressive people who tried to buy what they wanted and
                    took what they could not buy, running roughshod over the rights of all who got in the way.
            In Filibusters and Expansionists Frank Lawrence Owsley, Jr., and Gene A. Smith
                    examine American expansion into the Gulf Coast region in the first two decades of the nineteenth
                    century. The three 
                    
                        Virginia
                     presidents of this era, Jefferson, 
                        Madison
                    , and 
                        Monroe
                    , were all ardent expansionists. Each openly or tacitly supported military operations
                    and filibustering expeditions designed to pry all or part of the Gulf Coast from 
                        Spain
                    . In 1819, 
                        Spain
                     bowed to the inevitable and signed a treaty surrendering East and West 
                        Florida
                     to the 
                        United States
                     in exchange for various considerations, including a promise of greater security for its
                    remaining territory in North America.
            Although the broad outlines of this story are well known to specialists, the details lie scattered in
                    a host of monographs, articles, and popular works published over the last seventy-five years. The
                    strength of this work is that it draws these threads together and presents them in a single, compact
                    book. Unfortunately, the work rarely rises above the level of summary. The authors rely mainly on
                    secondary sources and printed primary sources. As a result, they must speculate on some issues that
                    a more thorough examination of the sources almost surely would have clarified. The authors' failure
                    to mine fully the papers of Jefferson, 
                        Madison
                    , and 
                        Monroe
                     and the war, state, and navy departments is particularly puzzling since these
                    collections have been microfilmed and thus are widely available.
            Readers will find this work a serviceable overview of American expansion into the Gulf Coast region,
                    but a definitive and compelling account based on a thorough review of the abundant source material
                    remains to be written.
            DONALD R. HICKEY, professor of history at 
                        Wayne
                     State College in 
                        Nebraska
                    , is the author of The War of 1812: A Forgotten Conflict (1989) and is
                    currently working on a companion volume on the Quasi-War, America's undeclared naval war with 
                        France
                     in the late 1790s.
         
         
            
               Manifest Destiny and Empire: American Antebellum Expansionism. By Robert W.
                    Johannsen, John M. Belohlavek, Thomas R. Hietala, Samuel J. Watson, Sam W. Haynes, and Robert E.
                    May. (College Station: 
                        Texas
                     A & M University Press, for the University of 
                        Texas
                     at Arlington, 1997. Pp. xii, 179. Notes. $24.95.)
            This collection of Walter Prescott Webb Memorial Lectures, sponsored by the University of 
                        Texas
                     at Arlington, focuses on the sources of mid-nineteenth-century 
                        United States
                     imperialism. Some of the essays raise interesting questions; others are simple 
                        United States
                    -bashing, now so fashionable as to be trite. The collection is introduced by the
                    distinguished historian Robert W. Johannsen, who also provides, given the title of the collection, a
                    crucially important essay on "The Meaning of Manifest Destiny," linking it to the
                    distinctive political discourse of the day rather than to the common-sense rhetoric of the middle
                    class. Romanticism figured strongly in this discourse, which linked Whigs, Democrats, southerners,
                    and even Abraham Lincoln and Stephen Douglas as strange rhetorical bedfellows.
            
            John M. Belohlavek chastises lawyer Caleb Cushing for trying to be on both sides of the expansion
                    question at once. Since Cushing was a lawyer, this should not surprise anyone. Nor should Cushing's
                    Newberyport statement that "men, nations, races, may, must, will
                    perish…" be surprising, because it is true, as every serious historian will
                    attest; immortality is left to the gods, and Cushing was not one of them. Likewise it is no news
                    that George Catlin and Henry Thoreau opposed westward expansion (despite the famous quotation from
                    Thoreau to the effect that "westward I go free") though Thomas R. Hietala appears
                    to think it is.
            Samuel J. Watson's piece on the role of professional army officers such as John E. Wool, Zachary
                    Taylor, and Winfield Scott in preventing filibusters into 
                        Canada
                     in the pre-Mexican War period is contradicted by Robert E. May in his concluding essay,
                    "Manifest Destiny's Filibusters." Nonetheless, Watson's discussion of Whig
                    political views and the disciplined restraint of the professional military with regard to expansion
                    helps put to rest the assumption that the military always start the wars. It is a valuable lesson.
            By far the best essay in this collection is Sam W. Haynes's "Anglo-phobia and the Annexation
                    of 
                        Texas
                    : The Quest for National Security." He recognizes the threat that Britain, then
                    the most powerful nation on earth, presented to an already fragmented 
                        United States
                    . Many feared, and rightly so, that if Britain somehow gained control of 
                        Texas
                    , it could control the world's cotton market and in so doing threaten the mills of the
                    North as well as the planters of the South; and by playing off one against the other, it could
                    disrupt the fragile Union. The cause of antislavery was the lever that could bring about this
                    disruption, which it did later anyway. British control of 
                        Texas
                     and 
                        California
                     could also have threatened 
                        United States
                     western expansion, which many policymakers regarded as a safety valve for northern
                    worker discontent. As this reviewer wrote long ago in When the Eagle Screamed: The
                        Romantic Horizon in American Diplomacy, Great Britain's machinations in regard to 
                        Texas
                    , its war fleet off 
                        California
                    , its efforts to control 
                        Hawaii
                     as well as the 
                        China
                     trade, its attempts to thwart American efforts at an Isthmian Canal via the Clayton
                    Bulwer Treaty of 1850, and its fleet patrolling the Nicaraguan coast amounted to a policy now
                    familiar to Americans who understand the Truman Doctrine of "containment."
                    Haynes's essay, however, has two faults. By using the word "Anglophobia" he
                    implies that Americans were irrational in their fears, and by failing to note the danger of the
                    British Balkanization of North America—an imperial policy Great Britain pursued elsewhere
                    on the globe, especially in the Middle East and the Balkans—he does not go far enough in
                    analyzing the implications of Britain's potential threat to the 
                        United States
                     at a critical time in its history. This line of inquiry needs  more study by American historians, but Haynes has shown the faint
                    outlines that need to be filled in.
            WILLIAM H. GOETZMANN is Jack S. Blanton, Sr., Professor of
                    History and American Studies at the University of 
                        Texas
                    , Austin.
         
         
            
               The Jeffersonian Dream: Studies in the History of American Land Policy and
                        Development. By Paul W. Gates. Edited by Allan G. and Margaret Beattie Bogue. (Albuquerque:
                    University of 
                        New Mexico
                     Press, in cooperation with the University of 
                        New Mexico
                     Center for the American West, 1996. Pp. xx, 172. Notes, bibliography.
                    $42.50.)
            Paul W. Gates's career as an historian opened with his first published article in 1931, when he was
                    thirty, and apparently closed with his most recent book in 1991, when he was ninety. He became the
                    acknowledged dean of historians of the 
                        United States
                     public domain and in addition directed many students who became accomplished historians
                    themselves. Among them are Allan and Margaret Bogue, who have rendered an important service by
                    bringing together nine of Gates's essays in this collection. They also provide a biographical
                    sketch, a list of Gates's books and essays, and a five-page "Memoir" by Gates
                    himself on his work and his collaboration with his wife, Lillian Cowdell Gates. Gates's corpus is
                    one of the most important in American historical scholarship in this century, and this book is both
                    deserved and needed.
            At first glance, one wonders why the editors did not include what they rightly call
                    "probably the most influential article that [Gates] ever wrote," the 1936 American Historical Review essay called "The Homestead Act in an
                    Incongruous Land System," or a segment from his monumental book, History of
                        Public Land Law Development (1968). But the Bogues instead include Gates's own revisions
                    and second thoughts of 1963 on the Homestead Act essay, which is even more worth reading, and they
                    may have decided that the 1968 book is too massive to yield a representative abstract. They also
                    include Gates's 1942 critique of speculators, who frustrated the fiontier-egalitarian ideals he so
                    favored; a 1957 essay on the sharp class divisions that existed on settlement frontiers and that the
                    Turnerian tradition glossed over; and excerpts from The 
                            Wisconsin
                         Pine Lands of Cornell University (1943) and Fifty Million
                    Acres (1954), on how settlers took over Indian reserves in eastern 
                        Kansas
                    .
            One essay (now sounding quite Anglocentric) from Gates's extensive writings on 
                        California
                     land disposal, so different from the Midwest's, appears here. In another Gates offers
                    an analysis of the shift from Jeffersonian individualism to government regulation in land policy,
                    and there is an outspoken article of 1985 in which Gates declared that "the West's greatest
                    opponent is not colonialism…  [but] its own opposition
                    to policies that would do much to improve its ranges… water resources… land
                    problems… and distribution of its waters" (p. 142). Concluding the book is the
                    collaboration of 1984 in which Paul and Lillian Gates compared and evaluated the pre-1930 land
                    policies of 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                    .
            Not included is "Hoosier Cattle Kings," which appeared in the Indiana
                        Magazine of History in the March, 1948, issue—which, say the Bogues, a
                    "sensitive descendant of these gentry" bought up in its entirety to prevent its
                    circulation (p. xiv). Gates was often critical of land policy for favoring wealthy interests over
                    settlers and for exacerbating inequalities. In this, as the Bogues state, he was a true progressive.
                    He was fair, fearless, and diligent. If he is to be faulted, perhaps it should be for a Turnerian
                    overlooking—no sin in his day—of the negative effects of land policy on
                    African Americans and Latinos.
            This book could have been larger; the Bogues refer to "restrictions as to
                    pagination" (p. xix). It will nevertheless especially benefit younger historians, who may
                    not yet have heard Gates's message.
            WALTER NUGENT, professor of history at the University of
                    Notre Dame, is author of Into the West: The Story of Its People, which will be
                    published in late 1999.
         
         
            
               Slavery & the Law. Edited by Paul Finkelman. (
                        Madison
                    , Wis.: 
                        Madison
                     House Publishers, Inc., 1997. Pp. viii, 465. Notes, figures, tables, index.
                    $44.95.)
            
               Slavery & the Law, an anthology of fifteen articles by distinguished law
                    and history professors, began life in 1993 as a symposium in the 
                  
                            Chicago
                        -
                            Kent
                         Law Review. Divided into four parts, it spans American history from colonial
                    times to the Civil War, with detours, for comparative purposes, into ancient 
                        Rome
                     and Stuart 
                        England
                    . The four parts, preceded by the editor's introduction, relate the law of slavery or
                    the institution of slavery to theories of democracy, constitutional law, criminal and civil law, and
                    comparative law.
            The anthology is an uncompromising but reasoned assault on slavery. The essayists, controlling their
                    moral indignation, analyze slavery coldly, allowing the devastatingly graphic sources to speak for
                    themselves. Most articles are based on wide-ranging research in primary sources, especially judicial
                    cases and slave codes, and on secondary accounts from several disciplines. In particular, state
                    judicial cases enlighten us about slavery's relationship to racial, legal, constitutional,
                    political, and economic ideology. Other primary sources include biblical, economic, political,
                    scientific, and sociological studies, slave and freeman narratives, auction sales books, legal
                    treatises, census records, legislative debates, fiction, newspapers, and periodicals.
            
            American slavery was "peculiar" because it was based solely on race. Blacks were
                    adjudged inferior and reduced to a diminished status; their innate humanity and moral character were
                    denied. Americans, particularly southerners, developed a complex legal and constitutional system to
                    protect slaveholders' property rights and to police slaves. Slaves had few legal rights, and their
                    testimonies in courts carried little or no weight. Slavery was protected by the US. Constitution,
                    under which Congress passed fugitive slave laws that endangered even free African Americans. The
                    legal system also assisted slaveowners through its deep involvement in shameful and brutalizing
                    slave auctions and its suppression of antislavery speech. Slavery was strengthened (ironically) as
                    society became more democratic. Worse yet, the institution was made to seem compatible with
                    democracy.
            The essays, mostly of high quality, form a superb introduction to the subject, profiting both expert
                    and novice. Nevertheless, editor Paul Finkelman, an authority on the literature of slavery and the
                    law, could have assisted the reader further by firmly placing this anthology in that literature. It
                    would have been useful also to have put the essays in chronological order. For instance, the
                    articles on 
                  Rome, England
               , and colonial America could have followed immediately his
                    effective introduction and William W. Fisher III's fine article on the ideology and imagery of the
                    law of slavery. The volume's capstone could have been Michael 
                        Kent
                     Curtis's excellent essay on the free-speech crisis (1857-1860) precipitated by Hinton
                    Rowan Helper's antislavery The Impending Crisis. Derrick Bell's article is
                    actually a foreword, in which Bell demonstrates that the study of slavery explains racism's
                    permanence in America. The index does not reflect the rich text and footnotes; a separate case index
                    could also have been constructed. These reservations aside, Slavery & the
                    Law establishes that slavery was central to our legal system's growth and development.
            GASPARE J. SALADINO is coeditor of "The
                    Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution," a documentary editing project
                    based in the Department of History, University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    -
                        Madison
                    .
         
         
            
               Wages of Independence: Capitalism in the Early American Republic. Edited by Paul
                    A. Gilje. (
                        Madison
                    , Wis.: 
                        Madison
                     House Publishers, Inc., 1997. Pp. x, 166. Notes, indices. Clothbound,
                    $49.00; paperbound, $16.95.)
            In her 1998 presidential address, American Historical Association president Joyce Appleby lamented
                    that progressives had misrepresented the nature of capitalism by focusing on groups that had
                    "failed to benefit from [a] profit-driven economy" and hoped that present and
                    future generations would be equally aware of the liberating "human possibilities"
                    of the marketplace (AHR, February, 1998,  p.
                    13). Wages of Independence takes an important step toward presenting a more
                    balanced picture. Sparked by Paul A. Gilje's erudite opening essay that is both a review of the
                    literature and a general introduction to the topic, this collection of historiographical and
                    interpretive essays on capitalism in the new nation is the most useful single volume available on
                    this subject to scholars and students.
            Jeanne Boydston analyzes the role of women in the marketplace, finding that after the revolution,
                    with American capitalism in full stride, women may have become both more important to men and the
                    nuclear family and more threatening to males' sense of masculinity. The increased emphasis on
                    separate spheres was in part a reaction to the volatility of the market and household. Ultimately,
                    the importance the society placed on separating women from the market made the concept of
                    "working woman" seem to be an oxymoron.
            In his essay on southern paternalism, Douglas Egerton maintains that the South was a precapitalist
                    society. He stresses that in slavery there was no cash wage, that the slave/master relation was not
                    economic, and that the South was not a consumer society and lacked an acquisitive yeoman class.
                    Christopher Clark agrees with Egerton about the South but stresses that agriculture outside the
                    South, although based on smaller farms, gave American capitalism a major push. In 
                        Pennsylvania
                     excess farmhands formed an industrial working class; in New 
                        England
                     economic stress forced women into mills; in the West indebtedness pressed farmers to
                    concentrate on marketing and cash crops; and throughout the West increasing numbers of agricultural
                    laborers began to appear before the Civil War.
            In his discussion of capitalism and industrialization, Jonathan Prude points out that the key change
                    from earlier production was organization. A factory could have as few as ten workers, but it always
                    utilized large-scale production—not always with new technology but always with a division
                    of labor, increased output, and decreased cost per hand. While industrialization and industrial
                    discipline could offer a woman the chance to earn twice as much as the rural wage earner or artisan
                    who might become an entrepreneur, there were negative connotations attached to factory work, and
                    wages ultimately declined.
            Richard Stott's essay criticizes the concept of artisan republicanism as misleading for several
                    reasons: it does not encompass the outlook of many rural artisans; the thesis of the decline of the
                    skilled tradesman is only true with selective trades; and the "harmonious
                    workshop" may have been a fiction. Capitalism, he points out, may have offered the artisan
                    more freedom than the paternalism that engulfed the colonial craftsman.
            Cathy Matson deftly surveys economic thought in regard to land, commerce, credit and banking, and
                    manufacturing, while Gordon Wood in a final essay discusses the differing interpretations and
                    definitions of capitalism and also offers a sharp critique of Marxistoriented  thought for its attempts to defend a moral economy that never existed.
                    He argues that Republicans, who were small farmers and artisans on the make, were the group most
                    responsible for capitalism. "hey wanted new banks and credit far more than Federalists.
                    This is a valuable collection and an excellent introduction to current thought on the early national
                    economy.
            HOWARD B. ROCK, professor of history at 
                        Florida
                     International University, edited The American Artisan: Explorations in
                        Social Identity (1995).
         
         
            
               The Corporate City: The American City as a Political Entity, 1800-1850. By
                    Leonard P. Curry. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1997. Pp. xix, 299. Tables, illustrations, notes, index.
                    $75.00.)
            This volume is the first of a projected series of four in which Leonard P. Curry intends to document
                    the development of American urbanism between 1800 and 1850. Curry defines urbanism as a set of
                    political and population patterns, expanding public services, and an environment of opportunity and
                    innovation that distinguished American cities from nonurban areas. Focusing on the fifteen largest
                    American cities as of 1850, Curry's investigation is shaped by his commitment to what he terms
                    comparative methodology. "The comparative method," Curry contends,
                    "demands that comparable data be collected without conscious reference to a theoretical
                    concept" and results in "a product that presents far more data and is likely to
                    give considerably less attention to the elaboration of a theoretical construct" than other
                    methods achieve (p. xiv).
            Curry keeps his promise to present data in The Corporate City. In chapters loaded
                    with details that will deter all but the most determined readers, he examines city charters,
                    municipal finance, elections and the makeup of city government, street patterns and city planning,
                    city relationships with county and state governments, and city sponsorship of commercial development
                    for all fifteen cities in his sample group. Most of his findings reinforce what urban historians
                    already know: that suffrage grew more democratic; that officeholders still came from the ranks of
                    the economic elite; that the nation's largest cities supported the Whig party between 1836 and 1850;
                    that cities designed after 1680 modeled themselves on 
                        Philadelphia
                    's pattern of rectilinear streets; that "the city as a political entity became
                    an instrument of support for the commercial community" (p. 239). Nevertheless, the weight
                    of empirical evidence Curry piles up adds some insights to familiar themes. For instance, he
                    observes that while urbanites expanded government authority, they simultaneously limited its
                    exercise by spreading responsibility among numerous officials. Thus city dwellers demonstrated both
                    "the imperative need for order and corporateness" (p. 30) and their suspicion of
                    concentrated power. In his exploration of "urban mercantilism," Curry makes the
                    valuable point that city government in the first half of the nineteenth  century favored commercial ventures over industrial development. On a
                    larger scale, Curry's research demonstrates the close relationship between private economic
                    interests and urban politics.
            There are certain other advantages to Curry's encyclopedic approach. Scholars seeking details on
                    topics such as changes in city charters will find profitable information in this book. Curry also
                    includes sixty-seven useful contemporary city maps. Nevertheless, there are also disadvantages to
                    his comparative methodology. Without significant context or thematic signposts, the deluge of
                    statistics and tables becomes numbing. Only the most intrepid, fact-starved specialist will be
                    willing to wade through most of them. Moreover, there is a static, abstract quality to the book. As
                    his subtitle indicates, Curry presents the city as an "entity," not as a
                    three-dimensional place where people lived and worked. Perhaps the future volumes in this series
                    will remedy that shortcoming; for now, Curry's achievement is mixed.
            THOMAS R. PEGRAM, associate professor of history at Loyola
                    College in 
                  Baltimore, Maryland
               , is the author of Battling Demon Rum: The
                        Struggle for a Dry America, 1800-1930 (1998) and Partisans and Progressives:
                        Private Interest and Public Policy in 
                            Illinois
                        , 1870-1922 (1992).
         
         
            
               With Charity for All: Lincoln and the Restoration of the Union. By William C.
                    Harris. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1997. Pp. x, 354. Endmaps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $37.95.)
            The facts of Lincolnian reconstruction are not difficult to discover. But for many historians the
                    facts have not been the main interest. They have instead been concerned with Lincoln's ultimate aims
                    because of the light those goals might shed on his motives. The post-World War II school of
                    Reconstruction historiography has been dominated by scholars with an intense, even agonizing,
                    interest in those motives—agonizing because their quest to show that Lincoln was a
                    dedicated equalitarian has had to confront many obstinate facts that are difficult to reconcile with
                    this particular canon of their faith.
            William C. Harris does not belong to this school, although he certainly does not shrink from
                    asserting what the Great Emancipator had in mind, including what he would have done if he had
                    survived the war. The president, he says, "did not think of reconstruction policy primarily
                    as an instrument for winning the war or securing white support for black freedom. For Lincoln,
                    wartime reconstruction was designed to initiate the restoration of civil self-government in the
                    South, a process that had a high and immediate priority for him…" (p. 2).
            The author also dismisses the theory that Lincoln wished to create an alliance of old Whigs and
                    Republicans that would form a political majority in the postwar nation. He has not, he says, found
                         any evidence that the president "approached
                    reconstruction with any such partisan intent" (p. 3). Nevertheless, the evidence is
                    there—plenty of it—to support the inference. One might ask Harris if he
                    believes that Lincoln would have championed any form of reconstruction that might have produced a
                    Democratic majority in the years to come. He is on sounder ground when he challenges those
                    historians who portray Lincoln as changing his reconstruction plans to accommodate Radical demands
                    "for black suffrage and for other revolutionary changes in Southern society" (p.
                    4). This will probably get the author in big trouble with the Lincoln industry.
            Mind-reading aside, Harris has given us a lucid, readable survey of Lincolnian reconstruction,
                    concentrating, of course, on those Confederate states with substantial areas under northern control
                    where there was an opportunity of getting the process under way. As such, it is a useful
                    contribution. Whether, as he asserts, his book "fills a void in Lincoln and Civil
                    War-Reconstruction historiography" (p. 4) depends on how one defines
                    "fill" and "void." There are, after all, only 275 pages of text.
                    The main shortcoming in an otherwise good, sensible book is the inadequate treatment of Lincoln's
                    actions during the last eight or nine months of his life, which saw many sinuous twists and turns,
                    many of them behind the scenes, that would have, if analyzed, given considerable additional depth to
                    our understanding of the subject at hand.
            LUDWELL H. JOHNSON III is professor emeritus of history at
                    the College of William and Mary.
         
         
            
               Left Out: Pragmatism, Exceptionalism, and the Poverty of American Marxism,
                    1890-1922. By Brian Lloyd. (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 1997. Pp. x, 472. Notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $45.00.)
            Brian Lloyd's book represents another effort on the part of a younger generation of historians to
                    explain why older scholars were wrong to underestimate the potential of radicalism in American
                    history. The author acknowledges the validity of the liberal consensus scholarship that emerged in
                    the 1950s, particularly in the works of Louis Hartz and Richard Hofstadter, but he believes that the
                    conservative nature of the American social order, one lacking in clear-cut class antagonisms, need
                    not trouble us if we attend to the higher reaches of intellectual history. Here the key is, he
                    insists, the theoretical compatibility between European Marxism and American pragmatism.
            The effort to render pragmatism compatible with Marxism had been undertaken in the pre-World War I
                    years by Robert LaMont and William English Walling, and it reached philosophical sophistication two
                    decades later in Sidney Hook's Toward an Understanding of Karl Marx. What Marx and
                    John Dewey had in common was a  "praxis" test
                    of knowledge, a criterion that would verify an idea based on its ability to prove successful in the
                    world of practice. What Lloyd does not seem to "get" is that such a criterion goes
                    to the heart of American society in general; as George Santayana observed, pragmatism simply
                    expresses what America is all about and thus can hardly be used as a critique of its existing
                    institutions and practices. From Ben 
                        Franklin
                     to William James to William Gates the test of life is what functions successfully, what
                    enables one to cope with experience, what ultimately brings "satisfaction." In his
                    essays on "What Pragmatism Means" and elsewhere, William James heralded the new
                    philosophy as fulfilling a "cash nexus." The pragmatist "account[sI of
                    truths in the plural," James declared, have "only this in common, they
                    pay." Is this the goal of Marxism or of Wall Street?
            Lloyd is one of a number of scholars who believe that pragmatism, whether wedded to Marxism or not,
                    constitutes a radical stance in American history. Where is the evidence? Charles Sanders Peirce, the
                    original genius of pragmatism, sought to exclude political questions from philosophy, was skeptical
                    of democracy, and came from a family that opposed the abolition of slavery. James condemned the
                    Haymarket labor strike and hailed women's place in the home, and Dewey wrote almost nothing on such
                    social issues as race and poverty.
            Although Lloyd expects too much of intellectual history, he is on stronger ground when he criticizes
                    the new social history for leading us to believe that the working class offered the possibility of
                    radical revolution emerging from the cauldron of modern industry. Lloyd is critical of English
                    Thompsonianism (E. P. Thompson) and its American variant in the work of Herbert Gutman, which led a
                    generation of young historians to see the seeds of radicalism in working-class neighborhoods, as
                    though a class that dances together rises together.
            
               Left Out often seems desperate in trying to reconceive America in order to rescue
                    history from consensus liberalism; yet its author shows every sign of a first-rate intelligence.
                    Particularly learned is his treatment of Thorstein Veblen. Lloyd rightly shows Veblen's misplaced
                    hopes, articulated among other places in Imperial 
                            Germany
                         and the Industrial Revolution (1914), that industrialism and modern science
                    would extirpate premodern animism and militarism. Less convincing is his contention that Veblen
                    misunderstood Dewey's pragmatism when he saw it as the rationale for expediency at the expense of
                    "idle curiosity." The expression Dewey hated most, it should be noted, was
                    "otiose," and his belief in practical ideas was as fervent as Henry Ford's.
                    Contrary to Lloyd, Veblen was prescient about a pragmatism that would see life as "shrewd
                    management-a body of maxims of expedient conduct." Look around you!
            JOHN PATRICK
                    DIGGINS is professor of history at the Graduate Center, City University of 
                        New York
                    .
         
         
         
            Recent Articles, Books, Pamphlets, Dissertations, and Other Publications in Indiana History
            
                    Compiled by Leigh Darbee
                
            
               Editor's Note. This annual list is intended to aid researchers in Indiana history.
                        The Magazine solicits items for inclusion, especially from publications (other
                    than newspapers) not usually reviewed in the IMH. Items to be included in the March, 2000, issue
                    should be sent before November 1, 1999. Please note that the list does not include books that have
                    been reviewed in the IMH; for these citations researchers must consult the annual
                    index, published in the December issue.
            
               Allen, Anne E., "A Brief History of the 
                            Monroe
                         Presbyterian Church, [
                            Jefferson County
                        ]," Hoosier Genealogist, XXXVIII (December, 1998).
               "Amusement Parks," Indiana Postcard Club (June, 1998).
               Anness, Albert R., Growing Up in Liberty: Part I, The Train
                            Held Up (Sheboygan, 
                            Wisc
                        .: Zimmerman Printing Co., 1997).
               Archibald, Robert R., "Reflections by the Rivers," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, X (Winter, 1998). [Address at the Indiana Historical
                        Society's annual meeting, November 1, 1997.]
               Ashendel, Anita, "Fabricating Independence: Industrial Labor in Antebellum
                        Indiana," 
                     
                                Michigan
                             Historical Review, XXIII (Fall, 1997).
               Austin, Grace Bell, "The Jones Family to 
                            Oregon
                        , 1853," 
                     
                                Owen County
                             History & Genealogy, VII (Fall, 1998).
               Baer, M. Teresa, "Education and the Perception of Equality: Defining Equality through
                        the Establishment of Public School Systems in Indiana and 
                            Ontario
                        , 1787-1852" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1998).
               Beatty, Jodie, and Lisa Lewis, "A State in the Making: Indiana Manufacturers and the
                        1840 Census," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, X (Spring,
                        1998).
               Beavers, Addison, The First 100 Years: A Partial History of the Boonville School
                            System (Bradenton, Fla.: The Author, 1997).
               Beck, Bill, "Real Silk Once Major U. S. Hosiery, Lingerie Mill," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Business Journal, XVIII (August 25, 1997).
               Bigham, Darrel E., "The Jewish Experience in 
                            Evansville
                        : From the Formative Years to the 1880s," Indiana Jewish
                            History, No. 32 (October, 1998).
               Birdsell, Roger, The Jewish Federation of St. Joseph Valley:
                            Organizing a Jewish Community Council: Vol. I, 1945-1956 (
                            South Bend
                        : [s.n.], 1998).
               
               Blakey, George T., "The Year 
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana, Got Lost in the Census: 1850 as a Demographic Dilemma," Indiana Magazine of History, XCIV (March, 1998).
               Bogle, Victor M., and Kenneth R. Cobb, "Hoosiers Once Had a Small Bite of the 'Big
                        Apple,'" Journal of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences, I
                        (1997).
               Boomhower, Ray, "Luxury on the 
                            Ohio
                        : Culbertson Mansion State Historic Site," Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, X (Fall, 1998).
               Brockman, Paul, Guide to Ethnic History Collections [at the Indiana
                        Historical Society], 2nd ed. (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 1997).
               Brooks, Bill, "Digging Up the Past," Hoosierisms
                        Quarterly, III (Spring, 1998). [Excavations at the Lanier Mansion State Historic Site in 
                            Madison
                        .]
               Burgess, Charles, "The Boatload of Trouble: William Maclure and Robert Owen
                        Revisited," Indiana Magazine of History, XCIV (June, 1998).
               
                  
                            Campbell
                        , Elizabeth, et al., "African American Rural Settlements
                        in 
                            Randolph County
                        , Indiana," Black History News & Notes, No. 72
                        (May, 1998).
               Canal Society of Indiana, "Indiana's Canal Heritage" [videorecording] (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        : The Production Studio, 1997).
               Castaldi, Thomas E., 
                     
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal Notebook: Through Indiana's Cass and Carroll Counties
                        ([s.].: The Author], 1997). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant product.]
               "Catalog of the Pupils of the Indiana Institution for the Education of the Deaf and
                        Dumb from Its Commencement in 1843, to November 1, 1854," Hoosier
                            Genealogist, XXXVIII (June, 1998).
               Channick, Herbert S., "William Henry Harrison Steals Western 
                            Illinois
                         from the Sauk and Fox," 
                     
                                Illinois
                             Heritage, I (Winter, 1998).
               Chapin, Charles A., "Newton and 
                            Jasper
                        : A Search for Their Stories," 
                     
                                Illinois
                             Heritage, I (Winter, 1998).
               Cline, Pat, "Distinguished American Gave Name for City," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XXIII (July, 1998). [The naming of 
                            Crawfordsville
                        .]
               Cochran, Stephen L., "A New Document Bearing on the History of George Rogers Clark in 
                            Vincennes
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, XCIV (September, 1998).
               Cohen, Ronald D., and Stephen G. McShane, "Moonlight in Duneland: Illustrating the
                        South Shore Line," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, X
                        (Summer, 1998).
               Coplen, Daniel L., 
                     
                                Kosciusko County
                            , Indiana: An Oral and Pictorial History ([
                            Warsaw
                        ]: 
                            Kosciusko County
                         Historical Society, 1997).
               Cornwell, John, The Power to Harm: Mind, Medicine, and Murder on Trial (
                            New York
                        : Viking, 1996). [Story of case relating to Prozac.]
               
               Costomiris, Lois Kaiser, Rail Fences, Rolling Pins and Rainbows (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Guild Press, 1994). [
                            Hamilton county
                        .]
               Cox, E. T., "Natural Resources of 
                            Owen County
                        , 1875," Parts 1-4, 
                     
                                Owen County
                             History & Genealogy, VI and VII (Fall, 1997, Winter, Spring, and
                        Summer, 1998).
               Cox, Robert S., "The Old Northwest at the Clements Library," 
                     
                                Michigan
                             Historical Review, XXIV (Spring, 1998).
               Darbee, Leigh, '"The Doings Will Be Gorgeous': George Ade and the Indiana Society of 
                            Chicago
                        ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, X (Summer,
                        1998).
               Darbee, Leigh, "Finding Paradise in Fort 
                            Wayne
                        ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, X (Fall,
                        1998).
               Darbee, Leigh, "Industrial-Strength History," Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, X (Spring, 1998).
               Darbee, Leigh, "Strictly First-class Tiles," Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, X (Spring, 1998). [U. S. Encaustic Tile Works, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Day, James P., Whitewater Canal (Laurel: The Author, 1994).
               Day, Richard, and William Hopper, Images of America: 
                                Vincennes
                            
                   (
                            Dover
                        , N.H.: Arcadia, 1998).
               Dean, Jonathan R., "'A clever concoction of lies': Loaded Dice, White Mule,' and
                        Under-World Happenings at the [
                            Montgomery County
                        ] Fairgrounds in 1921," Parts 1-3, 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XXII (August-October, 1997).
               DeCicco, Linda, SLF Album: An Informal History of Notre Dame's Sophomore Literary
                            Festival, 1967-1996 (Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame Press, 1997).
               DeMotte Chamber of Commerce, A 1997 Overview: 30 Years of Growth, 100 Years of
                            Tradition (DeMotte: The Chamber, 1997).
               "The Diary of Calvin Fletcher: Excerpts from Volume One, 1817-1838," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, X (Winter, 1998).
               Divita, James J., Rejoice and Remember: A Centennial History of the Catholic
                            Community of St. Anthony of Padua, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Centennial Committee, St. Anthony Parish, 1992).
               Divita, James J., Workers' Church: Centennial History of the Catholic Parish of
                            the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary in West 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Centennial Committee, Church of the Assumption, 1994).
               Dixon, Joe Robert, Hard Times: Memoirs of a Southern Black Boy Raised during the
                            Depression (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 1st Out Publishing, 1996).
               Doane, Ruth Ellen, History of St. Ferdinand Parish, 1940-1998 ([Ferdinand?:
                        s.n.], 1998). [Published with this is Fr. John Schipp, Immigrants, Ferdinand,
                            Indiana, Area, rev. ed.]
               Dorrel, Ruth, comp., Indiana Source Book: 1991-1992. Vol. 8, Material from
                        The Hoosier Genealogist, (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 1997).
               
               Dorrel, Ruth, and Thomas D. Hamm, eds., Abstracts of the Records of the Society
                            of Friends in Indiana: Vol. I, Whitewater and 
                                Springfield
                             Monthly Meetings, rev. ed. (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 1996).
               "Driving Design," Indiana Preservationist, No. 3 (May/June, 1998). [Series
                        of articles on buildings in Indiana related to automobiles and the automobile industry.]
               Duncan, Dennis R., Jr., "Lost in Lake Michigan: The Wrecks of
                        the Muskegon and J. D. Marshall," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History, X (Summer, 1998).
               "88th Regiment Indiana Volunteers," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXXVI (June, 1998).
               Elliott, Josephine Mirabella, "William Maclure: Patron Saint of Indiana
                        Libraries," Indiana Magazine of History, XCIV (June, 1998).
               Elliott, Josephine Mirabella, and Donald E. Pitzer, "In Search of the Real
                        Maclure," Indiana Magazine of History, XCIV (June, 1998).
               Enochs, Richard A., From A to B: Migration Research: Birds of a
                        Feather—(Fort 
                            Wayne
                        : Indiana Genealogical Society, 1994).
               Estes, MaryBelle Hopkins, Rivertown Tales: Stories of 
                                Newburgh
                            , Indiana in Days Gone By (
                            Evansville
                        : 
                            Ohio
                         Township Public Library Friends Press, 1997).
               "Fame & Shame," Indiana Preservationist, No. 2
                        (March/April, 1998). [Indiana buildings with links to famous and infamous Hoosiers D. C.
                        Stephenson, Will Hays, Carole Lombard, and James Dean.]
               Feller, Daniel, "'The Spirit of Improvement': The America of William Maclure and
                        Robert Owen," Indiana Magazine of History, XCIV (June, 1998).
               Ferrell, Robert H., "Looking Back: The Nation's Worst President? Warren G. Harding
                        and Woodrow Wilson Compared," Indiana Magazine of History, XCIV
                        (December, 1998).
               Finch, Evan, "Will Geer, 
                            Frankfort
                        's Supporting Actor," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History, X (Fall, 1998).
               Furlong, Patrick J., "The Michiana Jewish Experience," Indiana
                            Jewish History, No. 32 (October, 1998).
               Furlong, Patrick J., "Plowmakers for the World," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, X (Spring, 1998).
               Gates, Lambert W., Mount Zion Apostolic Church: 75 Years of Excellence. A
                            Souvenir in History and Pictures (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The Church, 1997).
               Geib, George, "The Diary of Calvin Fletcher and the
                        Historians," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, X (Winter,
                        1998).
               "The Germans of 
                            Indianapolis
                         Remembered," Indiana German Heritage Society Newsletter,
                        XIV (Fall, 1998).
               Gibbs, Wilma L., "Civil War Commemorations: Honoring the Forgotten," Black History News & Notes, No. 74 (November, 1998).
               [Gibbs, Wilma L.], "Roselyn Richardson Collection [at the Indiana Historical
                        Society]," Black History News & Notes, No. 73 (August, 1998).
               
               Gildea, William, Where the Game Matters Most: A Last Championship Season in
                            Indiana High School Basketball (
                            Boston
                        , Mass.: Little, 
                            Brown
                        , 1997).
               Glen, John M., et al., "Indiana Archives: Archival Holdings in
                        Southern Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XCIV (September,
                        1998).
               Goldsmith, Stephen, The Twenty-First Century City: Resurrecting Urban
                        America (
                            Washington
                        , D.C.: Regnery Publishing, 1997).
               Gould, Todd, "For Gold and Glory," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, X (Summer, 1998). [The Gold and Glory automobile race.]
               Gould, Todd, Pioneers of the Hardwood: Indiana and the Birth of Professional
                            Basketball (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 1998).
               Graham, Frederick H., Wait for the 
                                Muncie
                             Boys: Indiana's Early Circuses (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Guild Press, 1995).
               Gray, Ralph D., "Détente with 
                            Kentucky
                        : A History of the Clark Maritime Centre," Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, X (Summer, 1998).
               Griner, Ned H., The Bethel 
                                Pike
                             Pottery: The First Thirty Years (
                            Muncie
                        : Minnetrista Cultural Foundation, 1996).
               Habegger, David L., ed., Maplewood Roots Growing in Faith: The History of
                            Maplewood Mennonite Church, 1960-1995 (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        : The Church, 1995).
               Hall, Carol, "'The free schools are the people's schools': A History of Early
                        Education and Public School Buildings in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," 
                            Marion County
                        -
                            Indianapolis
                         Historical Society Circular, No. 16 (Winter, 1997/1998).
               Harris, Betty, Diamond Heels Hattie: A Hoosier Housewife in "Peacock
                            Alley" (
                            Muncie
                        : Aitchmark Publications, 1997).
               Harter, Christopher, "William Forsyth Papers [at the Indiana Historical Society]: A
                        Love of Hoosierdom," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, X
                        (Winter, 1998).
               Helm, H. Dale, From Foxhole to Freedom: The World War II European Journal of
                            Capt. H. Dale Helm of Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Guild Press, 1996).
               "Hello, Central," North 
                            Manchester
                         Historical Society Newsletter, XV (February, 1998). [First telephone service in
                        North 
                            Manchester
                        .]
               "
                            Henry county
                         and the Civil War, 1861-1865," 
                     
                                Henry county
                             Historicatalog, XXV (Fall, 1997).
               
                  Historic Indiana 1997/98: A Guide to the Indiana Properties Listed in the
                            National Register of Historic Places (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Department of Natural Resources, Division of Historic Preservation and
                        Archeology, 1997).
               "Historic Landmarks Cites Most Endangered," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 4 (July/August, 1998).
               
               [History of law enforcement in 
                            Marshall County
                        ], 
                            Marshall County
                         Historical Society Quarterly, XXVII (Spring, 1998).
               [History of major fires in 
                            Marshall County
                        ], 
                            Marshall County
                         Historical Society Quarterly, XXVII (Fall, 1998).
               [History of medical care in 
                            Marshall County
                        ], 
                            Marshall County
                         Historical Society Quarterly, XXVII (Summer, 1998).
               
                  History of 
                                Steuben county
                            , Indiana (
                            Mount Vernon
                        : Interstate Publishing, 1998). [Reprint of 1885 edition.]
               Hood, Doris, 
                     
                                Fulton County
                            's Round Barns, rev. ed. ([
                            Rochester
                        ?: s.n.], 1998).
               Horvath, Terri, "Rediscovering the Lincoln Highway," Hoosierisms Quarterly, III (Spring, 1998).
               Huffman, Harry V., "The Diary of Calvin Fletcher, Volume One: A
                        Lawyer's Appreciation," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, X
                        (Winter, 1998).
               Ide, Roger M., In God's Service for 142 Years: A History of Webb Chapel, United
                            Methodist Church, 1854-1996 ([
                            Logansport
                        : The Church, 1996]).
               
                  Indiana Cabinets (
                            Gas City
                        : L-W Book Sales, 1997).
               Indiana Commission on Public Records, The Indiana State Capitol (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The Commission, 1998).
               Indiana Historical Society, "Who Do You Think You Are?" [video-recording] ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: The Training Works, 1997).
               Indiana Jewish Historical Society, A User's Guide to the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Holdings (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        : The Society, 1996). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant product.]
               Johnson, Don, "Overbeck Pottery," Today's Collector, II
                        (October, 1994).
               Karst, Frederick, "Hoosier Classics of William Maclure and Amos Eaton on American
                        Geology, Education, and Public Service," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        XCIV (June, 1998).
               Karst, Frederick, "Hoosier Classics: Indiana Home to Several Models [of
                        automobiles]," Outdoor Indiana, LXII (November/December, 1997).
               Kendall, Dean, The Wabash Valley High School Basketball
                            Tournament (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The Author, 1997).
               Kimbrough, David L., "Malinda Clark Slawson Pugh," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XCIV (March, 1998).
               Kirtley, James 
                            Marion
                        , "Kirtley Kronicles": The Life and Times of
                        James 
                            Marion
                         Kirtley, M. D. ([
                            Crawfordsville
                        ]: 
                            Montgomery County
                         Historical Society, 1997).
               Kennedy, Sheila Suess, What's a Nice Republican Girl Like Me Doing in the
                        ACLU? (Amherst, N.Y.: Prometheus Books, 1997). [Kennedy headed the Indiana Civil Liberties
                        Union for several years.]
               Laughlin, Sara, comp. & ed., Directory of Indiana Children's Authors and
                            Illustrators, 3rd ed. (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Friends of Indiana Libraries, 1997).
               
               Longacre, Glenn, and Nancy Malan, Guide to Records in the National Archives,
                            Great Lakes Region (
                            Chicago
                        : The Archives, 1996).
               Lord, Bob, "Those Dogs of Mine: The Story of the Salty Dogs Jazz Band," in
                            The 
                                Mississippi
                             Rag: The Voice of Traditional Jazz and Ragtime, ed. Alan Granruth (
                            Minneapolis
                        , Minn.: 
                            Mississippi
                         Rag, Inc., 1997). [The Salty Dogs originated at Purdue.]
               MacLaren, David, "Achievers against the Odds: African Americans in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1917-1941," Parts 1 and 2, Black History News &
                            Notes, No. 71 (February, 1998) and No. 72 (May, 1998).
               MacLaren, David, "Angels without Mercy: The African-American Fight against the Red
                        Cross's Blood Donor Discrimination, 1941-1945" (M.A. thesis, Ball State University,
                        1998).
               MacPhail, Ian, and Marjorie Sutton, "A Census of Copies of Thomas Say's American Conchology, 
                            New Harmony
                        , 1830-1834 {
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1837?)," Papers of the Bibliographic Society of America, XCI (March,
                        1997).
               MacPhail, Ian, and Marjorie Sutton, "William Maclure as Publisher in the 
                            New Harmony
                         Reform Tradition," Indiana Magazine of History, XCIV
                        (June, 1998).
               "
                            Marshall County
                         Schools," 
                            Marshall County
                         Historical Society Quarterly, XXVI (Fall, 1997).
               May, Jim, "One Less Artistic Stereotype," Hoosierisms
                        Quarterly, III (Summer, 1998). [Three Indiana artists in Taos, 
                            New Mexico
                        .]
               McCoy, Isaac, The Annual Register of Indian Affairs in the Western (or Indian)
                            Territory, 1835-1838 (Enid, Okla.: Particular Baptist Publishing, 1998). [Facsimile
                        reprint, enlarged, of the 1835 original.]
               McDonald, Daniel, History of 
                                Marshall County
                            , Indiana, 1836-1880 (
                            Mount Vernon
                        : Windmill Publications, 1998). [Reprint of 1881 edition.]
               McKee, Brian J., Historic American Covered Bridges (
                            New York
                        : ASCE Press; 
                            Oxford
                         University Press, 1997).
               McKinley, Archibald, "The Jews of the Calumet Region," Indiana
                            Jewish History, No. 32 (October, 1998).
               McPherson, Alan, Hoosier: Illustrated Origins of Indiana's Sobriquet (
                            Monticello
                        : Blasted Works, 1996).
               McQuaid, Kim, "The Strange Death of Corporate Culture at Studebaker," Reviews in American History, XXVI (June, 1998). [Review of Donald T.
                        Critchlow's Studebaker: The Life and Death of an American Corporation.]
               
                  
                     
                                Michigan City
                             Illustrated: Historical, Descriptive, and Biographical. The Evening News'
                            Review of a Half Century's Advance (
                            La Porte
                        : The Evening News, 1998). [Reprint and enlargement of the 1900 edition.]
               Mikesell, Shirley K., comp. & ed., Early Settlers of Indiana's
                            "Gore," 1803-1820 (Bowie, Md.: Heritage Books, 1995).
               
               Millett, Allan R., "Caesar and the Conquest of the Northwest Territory: The Second
                        Harrison Campaign, 1813," Timeline, XIV (September/October, 1997).
               Mills, Randy K., "The Struggle for the Soul of Frontier Baptists: The Anti-Mission
                        Controversy in the Lower Wabash Valley," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, XCIV (December, 1998).
               Mills, Randy K., "'Mr. Owen Don't Believe There is Any God': The Mixing of Religion
                        and Politics in an Early Indiana Political Campaign," Journal of the
                            Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences, I (1997).
               Monroe, Elizabeth B., and William L. McNiece, comps. & eds., Industrial
                            Sites Guidebook (
                            Indianapolis
                        : [s.n.], 1998). [Limited distribution; reference copy located at the Indiana
                        Historical Society.]
               Murphey, Kathleen A., "Schooling, Teaching, and Change in Nineteenth-Century Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XCIV (March,
                        1998).
               National Park Service, Underground Railroad (
                            Washington
                        , D.C.: National Park Service, Division of Publications, 1998).
               Neville, Susan, "Silo Dreams," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, X (Spring, 1998).
               Noblitt, Loren W., A History of Jackson County Churches (Brownstown: Jackson
                        County Historical Society, 1997).
               Novales, Alberto Gil, "The 
                            Spain
                         William Maclure Knew," Indiana Magazine of History, XCIV
                        (June, 1998).
               "Oddballs," Indiana Preservationist, No. 1
                        (January/February, 1998). [Series of articles on unusual brick and stone structures in Indiana.]
               "100th Regiment Indiana Volunteers," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXXVI (June, 1998).
               
                  
                            Orange County
                         Historical Society, History of 
                                Orange County
                             Churches (Shoals: [The Society?], 1996).
               Oswald, Diane L., Fire Insurance Maps: Their History and Applications
                        (College Station, Tex.: Lacewing Press, 1997).
               Overmyer, Jack K., A Stupendous Effort: The 87th Indiana in the War of the Rebellion (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 1997).
               Owings, Frank N., Jr., "What's (W)right with 
                            Indianapolis
                        ?" Indiana Magazine of History, XCIV (September, 1998).
               Patrick, Jeffrey L., and Robert Willey, eds., "'We have surely done a big work': The
                        Diary of a Hoosier Soldier on Sherman's 'March to the Sea,'" Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XCIV (September, 1998).
               Patry, Robert P., City of Four Freedoms: A History of 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana. A Survey of the History, Architectural Structures, and Personalities
                            of 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana (
                            Evansville
                        : Friends of the Willard Library, 1996).
               
               Peiss, Kathy, Hope in a Jar: The Making of America's Beauty Culture (
                            New York
                         Metropolitan Books, 1998). [Includes discussion of Madam C. J. Walker.]
               Perry, Rachel, "Children and Sunlight: The Life and Work of Ada Walter
                        Shulz," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, X (Winter, 1998).
               Perry, Rachel Berenson, "Ada Walter Shulz: Indiana Painter of Women and
                        Children," Outdoor Indiana, LXIII (January/February, 1998).
               Peterson, Roger A., African Americans Found in 
                                Owen County
                            , Indiana Records, 1819-1880 ([s.].]: The Author, 1996).
               Pieratt, Marty, and Ken Honeywell, Bobby Plump: The Last of the Small Town
                        Heroes (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Good Morning Publishing, 1997).
               Pitzer, Donald E., "William Maclure's Boatload of Knowledge: Science and Education
                        into the Midwest," Indiana Magazine of History, XCN (June, 1998).
               Plowden, David, "'A Terrible and Beautiful Thing': From Industrial
                            Landscape and Steel," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, X (Spring,
                        1998).
               Polis Center, Faith and Community: A Historic Walking Tour [of 
                            Indianapolis
                        ] (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The Center, 1998).
               Polis Center, 
                     
                                Fountain
                             Square Neighborhood, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana: Timeline, 1820-1997 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The Center, 1998).
               Polis Center, Mapleton-
                                Fall Creek
                             Neighborhood, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana: Timeline, 1843-1995 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The Center, 1998).
               Polis Center, Martindale-Brightwood Neighborhood, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana: Timeline, 1874-1994 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The Center, 1998).
               Polis Center, Near Westside Neighborhood, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana: Timeline, 1830-1998 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The Center, 1998).
               "The Potawatomi" [videorecording] (Bala Cynwyd, Pa.: Schlessinger Video
                        Productions, 1995).
               Rice, Stephen P., "The Boundaries of Authorship: Region and Race in the Short Stories
                        of Maurice Thompson," Indiana Magazine of History, XCN (December,
                        1998).
               Rinehard, Joyce G., Wonderful Raggedy Anns (Atglen, Pa.: Schiffer
                        Publishing, 1997).
               Ringenberg, William C., Taylor University: The First 150 Years (Grand
                        Rapids, Mich.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1996).
               Roberts, George C., "Indiana's 1915 Primary Election Law: Change, Experimentation,
                        and Endurance," Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings,
                        3rd ser., XXXI (1996).
               Roberts, Rachel Sherwood, "The Smash-Up Kid: Fort 
                            Wayne
                         Aviator Art Smith," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History (Fall, 1998).
               
               Robertson, Oscar, with Michael O'Daniel, The Art of Basketball: A Guide to
                            Self-Improvement in the Fundamentals of the Game (
                            Los Angeles
                        : Robertson Media Ventures, 1998).
               Rogers, Davonne, "History of the North 
                            Manchester
                         Public Library," North 
                            Manchester
                         Historical Society Newsletter, XIV (August, 1997).
               Rotman, Deborah L., et al., African American and 
                                Quaker
                             Farmers in East Central Indiana. Social, Political, and Economic Aspects of
                            Life in Nineteenth-Century Rural Communities: 
                                Randolph County
                            , Indiana (
                            Muncie
                        : Ball State University, 1998). [Limited distribution; reference copy located at the
                        Indiana Historical Society.]
               Rottenberg, Dan, "The Jews of 
                            Muncie
                        ," Indiana Jewish History, No. 32 (October, 1998).
               Rubincam, 
                            Milton
                        , and Richard D. Feldman, "Max Parry: Indiana's Forgotten
                        Playwright," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, X (Fall,
                        1998).
               Salemson, Daniel J., ed., "'TO spend some time as a missionary among the colored
                        people': The Civil War Writings of an Indiana 
                            Quaker
                         in the South," The Southern Friend: Journal of the 
                                North Carolina
                             Friends Historical Society, XX (Spring, 1998).
               Sallee, Tiffany C., "The Grand Old Master: Pioneer Hoosier Artist Jacob
                        Cox," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, X (Winter, 1998).
               
                  Salty Dogs Jazz Band: Family Photo Album (Lombard, Ill.: The Band, 1997).
                        [The Salty Dogs originated at Purdue.]
               Sample, Bradford W., '"To Do Some Small Good': Philanthrophy in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1929-1933" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1998).
               Sanders, Scott Russell, "Cutting: From In Limestone Country,"
                            Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, X (Spring, 1998).
               Sargent, Thomas A., The 
                                Muncie
                             Symphony Orchestra: 50 Seasons of Music (
                            Muncie
                        : The Orchestra, 1998).
               Scheele, Raymond H., "Larry Conrad and the Politics of Democratic Party Reform in
                        Indiana," Journal of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences, I
                        (1997).
               Schwomeyer, Herb, Hoosier Hysteria: A History of Indiana High School Boys' Single
                            Class Basketball, 9th ed. ([
                            Greenfield
                        : 
                            Mitchell
                        -Fleming Printing], 1997).
               "74th Regiment Indiana Volunteers," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXXVI (June, 1998).
               Shaw, Margery 
                            Wayne
                        , Our Bethany Family, 1897-1997 ([
                            Evansville
                        : Bethany Christian Church], 1997).
               Shuler, Scott, "Hoosier Hoops: Oral Histories of Indiana Basketball," Midwestern Folklore, XXIII (Fall, 1997).
               Sievers, Harry J., Benjamin Harrison, 3 vols. (Newtown, Conn.: American
                        Political Biography Press, 1996). [Reprint edition.]
               
               Spragg, Joann, "Horror of Andersonville Troubled [Lew] Wallace," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XXII (November, 1997).
               Spragg, Joann, "How… Gen. Lew Wallace's Study Came to Be," Parts
                        1-5, 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XXIII (March-July, 1998).
               Spragg, Joann, "More on Lew Wallace and Abraham Lincoln," Part 4, 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XXII (August, 1997).
               Spragg, Joann, "Wallace and Lincoln: The Assassination and Trial," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XXII (September, 1997).
               St. John, Philip A., USS 
                                Indianapolis
                             (CA-35) (Paducah, Ky.: Turner Publishing, 1997).
               St. Lawrence Centennial Committee, Church and Community: St. Lawrence Parish
                            (1895-1930's) ([
                            Lafayette
                        : The Church, 1995]). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant product.]
               Staicer, John M., "An American Pompeii: The Ben Schroeder Saddletree
                        Factory," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, X (Spring, 1998).
               Standish, S. Miles, ed., 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             District Dental Society: An Historical Perspective, 1878-1978 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: The Society, 1994).
               Stefoff, Rebecca, Tecumseh and the Shawnee Confederation (
                            New York
                        : Facts on File, 1998).
               Stuttgen, Joanne Raetz, One-Room and Two-Room Schoolhouses of 
                                Morgan County
                            , Indiana: An Architectural History ([s.].: s.n., 1994?]). [Indiana
                        Heritage Research Grant product.]
               Suggs, Henry Lewis, ed., The Black Press in the Middle West, 1865-1985 (
                            Westport
                        , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1996).
               "Sweet Tooth," Indiana Preservationist, No. 6
                        (November/December, 1998). [Series of articles about historical candy-related sites in Indiana.]
               "Taking the High Ground: A Portrait of an Historic Farm Community in
                        Transition" [videorecording] (
                            Bloomington
                        : Blooming-ton Restorations, 1997). [Farming in 
                            Monroe County
                        .]
               Tapia, John E., Circuit Chautauqua: From Rural Education to Popular Entertainment
                            in Early Twentieth-Century America (Jefferson, N.C.: McFarland, 1997).
               Tavenor, Hilda, The First 100 Years: A History of St. John's United Church of
                            Christ, 1896 to 1996 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        : The Church, 1995]).
               Taylor, Robert M., Jr., "When the First Rummage Came to Indy," Hoosierisms Quarterly, III (Summer, 1998).
               Taysom, Martha P., "Glory Is A-Comin' Soon": A History of
                            Mormonism in Indiana (
                            Kokomo
                        : Old Richardville Publications, 1998).
               "Things That Go Bump in the Night," 
                     
                                Henry county
                             Historicatalog, XXVI (Fall, 1998). [
                            Henry county
                         folklore.]
               Thompson, Joseph F., ed., A Guide to Some of the Memorials: 
                                St. Paul
                            's Episcopal Church (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The Church, 1997).
               
               Thurman, Suzanne, "Cultural Politics on the Indiana Frontier: The American Home
                        Missionary Society and Temperance Reform," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, XCIV (December, 1998).
               
                  
                            Topeka
                         Area Historical Society, Greetings from 
                                Topeka
                            , Indiana: 
                                Topeka
                             Area Historical Society, a Postcard and Picture Collection (
                            Topeka
                        : The Society, 1997).
               Vanderstel, David, "Finding Common Ground in the Circle City: The Impact of Religious
                        Institutions on the Urban Culture of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1905-1972," Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, 3rd ser., XXXI (1996).
               
                  Voices of Faith: Making a Difference in Urban Neighborhoods (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The Polis Center, 1998).
               Walker, Howard G., "Regimental Histories, Newspaper Reports, Official Records,
                        Regimental Roster, Supplementary Information, Maps, and Pictures in Five Volumes Concerning the
                        Eighty-First Regiment of Indiana Volunteer Infantry in the Great War of the Rebellion, 1861 to
                        1865." [Contact Howard G. Walker, 143 Lake Forest Drive, 
                     Montgomery, Alabama
                   36117.]
               Walsh, Martin W., "The Native American Sketches of Henry Hamilton," 
                     
                                Michigan
                             History Magazine, LXXXI (May/June, 1997).
               Warren, Stanley, "Martin Luther King, Jr. in Indiana," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 73 (August, 1998).
               Webb, Dorothy, "Betty Kessler Lyman and the Indiana Federal Children's
                        Theatre," Youth Theatre Journal, IX (1995).
               Weber, Catherine E Forrest, "Editing the Civil War Commanders: Robert Underwood
                        Johnson and the Century," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, X
                        (Summer, 1998).
               Wernle, Robert F., "The Team That Tackled Old Jim Crow…," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XXIII (January, 1998). 
                            Wabash
                         College football.]
               White, Joseph M., An Urban Pilgrimage: A Centennial History of the Catholic
                            Community of Holy Cross, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1896-1996 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        : s.n.], 1997).
               White, Samuel William, "Labor Politics in 
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana, 1919-1955" (Ph.D. dissertation, State University of 
                            New York
                        -Binghamton, 1998).
               "
                            Whitley County
                         in the Civil War," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXXVI (June, 1998).
               Whorrall, Bill, A Photographic History of Martin County: Indiana Album
                        (Shoals: The Author, 1998). [A new edition.]
               Williams, Thomas E. Q., Little Orphant Annie: From the Writings and Poetry of
                            James Whitcomb Riley (
                            Greenfield
                        : Coiny Publishing, 1998).
               Williams, Thomas Earl, James Whitcomb Riley: The Poet as Flying Islands of the
                            Night (
                            Greenfield
                        : Coiny Publishing, 1997).
               Willig, Timothy D., "Prophetstown on the 
                            Wabash
                        : The Native Spiritual Defense of the Old Northwest," 
                     
                                Michigan
                             Historical Review, XXIII (Fall, 1997).
               
               Wissing, Douglas, "Red Skelton: The Last Vaudevillian," Traces
                            of Indiana and Midwestern History, X (Winter, 1998).
               Wissing, Douglas, "Twist the Tiger's Tail: Casino Gambling in the Springs Valley and
                        the State of Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, X
                        (Fall, 1998).
               Wyatt-
                            Brown
                        , Bertram, 'War as Hell: Blasting Survivors' Minds," Reviews
                            in American History, XXV (December, 1997). [Review of Eric T. Dean, Jr.'s Shook over Hell: Post-Traumatic Stress, 
                                Vietnam
                            , and the Civil War.]
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
