
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 25, Issue 3, pages 185-256. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:25+issue:3+year:1929&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Colonel A. B. Crampton
            By MINDWELL CRAMPTON WILSON
            
            An interesting souvenir of one of the most momentous events of the Civil war—the surrender
                    of Vicksburg by the southern general, Pemberton, to General Grant and Admiral Porter on July
                    4,1863—is in the proud possession of Mindwell Crampton Wilson. It is a genuine copy of
                    the edition of the Vicksburg Citizen issued on wall paper a few hours after the
                    union forces entered the fallen city at the end of the memorable siege, and is of special interest
                    to her because it was printed by her father, Col. A. B. Crampton, now of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and two subordinate printers.
            The life of Col. Crampton is in reality a history of Indiana newspapers during the long period of his
                    career as a printer and editor. Though now in his eighty-sixth year, he can hold the interest of the
                    younger generation by his most interesting narrative.
            Adelbert Bernard Crampton was born on March 8, 1843, in 
                        Elkhart
                    , Indiana. At eleven years of age he was "bound out" or assigned to
                    the family of the Rev. Loyal A. Alford, a Baptist minister, who was then publishing the 
                  
                            Elkhart
                         Review. In that office he commenced to learn the printer's trade. He
                    served there for several years until Alford sold the equipment, which was moved to Three Rivers, 
                        Michigan
                    , and "Del" Crampton, as he was known then, went along to help print
                    the Three Rivers Herald, the first paper printed in the town. At the time of his
                    service on the Review, it was the custom of newspaper men to exchange help when
                    they were crowded with work and "Del" was loaned on several occasions to the 
                  
                            Goshen
                         Democrat, then published by Robert Lowry, and on one occasion to the St. Joe Valley Register of 
                        South Bend
                    , which was  published by Schuyler Colfax. After
                    serving his three years' apprenticeship, young Crampton worked on several newspapers as a
                    tramp-printer, among them being the 
                  
                            Mishawaka
                         Enterprise, published by Archibald Beal, the Grand Rapids
                    Eagle, and the 
                  
                            Ligonier
                         Banner. In 1861, he drifted back to the office of the 
                  
                            Elkhart
                         Review.
            
            That paper boiled over with intense patriotism. A recruiting officer was conducting a campaign in 
                        Elkhart
                    . One day at noon the editor, C. H. Chase, went home to dinner leaving his
                    "devil" in charge of the office. When he returned the "devil"
                    had taken unceremonious flight to volunteer in order to share the adventures of war with his pals
                    and give vent to the patriotic impulses that had been inspired by his association with the fiery
                    editor.
            The big, raw-boned, courageous "Private Del", six feet and two inches in height,
                    became Color Sergeant Crampton of the 48th Indiana infantry. He was serving in that capacity, when,
                    a few days before the fall of Vicksburg, General Grant, knowing he would require the use of a
                    printing office as soon as the city should be occupied, issued a call for printers in the ranks to
                    volunteer for that duty. Crampton and two others were selected from the number of volunteers, with
                    the Sergeant detailed as foreman of the trio. They received proper written authority to take
                    possession of any printing office in Vicksburg.
            Sergeant Cmampton decided that the office of the Vicksburg Citizen was best suited
                    to the purposes for which it was required, and he and his two typos took possession.
            On the composing stone they found the type (still undisturbed) of the last issue of the Daily Citizen, which had been printed on July 2, 1863, two days before. It wasn't
                    much of a paper, however—only four columns, each column 17 1/2 inches long. The issue had
                    been printed on the blank side of wallpaper, white print-paper stock having long since been
                    exhausted in Vicksburg. Being a newspaper man and interested in what the editor had been saying in
                    reference to the War, Crampton picked up that last copy and read the editorials. The first article
                    was headed "On Bit" and read as follows: 
                        The great Ulysses—the Yankee generalissimo, surnamed Grant— has
                            expressed his intention of dining in Vicksburg on Saturday next and celebrating the Fourth
                            of July by a grand dinner and so forth. When asked if he would invite Gen Jo Jackson to
                            join, he said, "No. for fear  there would be a
                            row at the table." Ulysses must get into the city before he dines in it. The way to
                            cook a rabbit is first to "catch the rabbit."
                    
            
            Crampton thought that a Union seizure of the town would be incomplete without some reply to the Citizen's statement. He shifted the original article two columns, seized
                    a printer's stick and with his own hands set up this reply: 
                        Two days bring about great changes. The banner of the Union floats over Vicksburg. General
                            Grant has "caught the rabbit"; he has dined in Vicksburg and did bring his dinner
                            with him. The Citizen lives to see it. For the last time it appears on
                            wall-paper. No more will we eulogize the luxury of mule meat and fricasseed
                            kitten—urge southern warriors to such diet nevermore. This is the last
                            "wall-paper" edition and is, excepting this note, from the types as we
                            found them. It will be valuable hereafter as a souvenir.
                    
            
            Crampton was right. The next day a supply of paper was sent into town, and he set about using the
                    newspaper equipment to publish the dispatches.
            Upon his discharge from the army at the close of the war, the Rev. and Mrs. L. A. Alford with whom he
                    had formerly lived having moved from 
                        Elkhart
                     to 
                        Logansport
                    , Crampton went there and again became a member of the Alford family. Two years later he
                    married their youngest daughter Lovisa. She was a nine year old girl when he first met her. To this
                    union four children were born, Adelbert B., Charles C., Lovisa E., and Mindwell. The first-born died
                    in infancy. The others are residents of Indiana, all graduates of Purdue University and Mindwell
                    also a graduate of Indiana University.
            During his residence in 
                        Logansport
                    , Crampton resumed his former occupation as printer; first, in the 
                  
                            Logansport
                         Journal office as a compositor; later, in the 
                  
                            Logansport
                         Pharos office as foreman and finally as the local editor. During this period
                    he was three times elected as a member of the 
                        Logansport City
                     Council, and three times appointed from that Congressional District as a member of the
                    Democratic Central Committee of the State. For two years he served with Eb. Henderson as chairman;
                    for two years with Joe McDonald; and for two years with Wm. H. English.
            In 1878, he bought the Delphi Times. Recalling a vow that he had made while in the
                        Vicksburg Citizen office, that, if he lived to own a newspaper, he would call
                    it The Citizen, he having sold the Times, started not long
                    afterward The Carroll  County Citzen. Later he
                    purchased the Times and merged it with The Citizen.
               1
            
            Mr. Crampton served as postmaster of Delphi during the 
                        Cleveland
                     administration. "While a resident of Delphi he was appointed a member of the
                    Board of Trustees of the Northern Indiana Hospital at 
                        Logansport
                    , by Governor Samuel Ralston for a term of four years. He was elected president of the
                    Indiana Democratic Editorial Association, president of the Northern Indiana Editorial Association,
                    and served as Vice President of the National Editorial Association.
            In 1914, he was elected Commander of the Indiana Department, Grand Army of the Republic, and in 1915,
                    was appointed Governor of the National Military Home at 
                        Marion
                    , Indiana, with the rank of Colonel. At this time he sold The Citizen
                    to his son-in-law and daughter Mindwell, Mr. and Mrs. H. B. Wilson. He served six years as Governor
                    of the 
                        Marion
                     Home. When it became a Sanitorium for World War veterans he was transferred to
                    Milwaukee as Governor of the Home there. He served in Milwaukee a little over three years, when he
                    resigned and located in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , having been appointed by Commander VanPelt, Assistant Adjutant and Assistant
                    Quartermaster-General of the State Grand Army of the Republic. For three successive years he was
                    elected Commander of the Loyal Legion, Department of Indiana. He was appointed a member of the
                    Soldiers' Monument Board by Governor Warren T. Mc-Cray, and by that Board made its
                    Chairman. He was reappointed by Governor Branch and again by Governor Leslie. At a meeting of the
                    Grand Army of the Republic held in Martinsville on June 10, 1929, he was elected a member of the
                    Council of Administration and again appointed by Commander Charles E. Hale, Assistant
                    Adjutant-General and Assistant Quartermaster-General. He is serving in that capacity now.
            While at home on a thirty day Veteran Furlough during the Civil War, Sergeant Crampton was made a
                    Mason two days 
                  
                     1 [The two rival political papers of Delphi for many years were the
                                Times (Democratic) and the Journal (Republican), the
                            former having been established about two years before the latter. The present editor of the
                            began his reading of newspapers with the Delphi Times. Mr. Crampton
                            acquired the Times in 1878. In 1887, he sold it to John and Jacob McMinus
                            who conducted it for a short period. At about the same date the Journal
                            was bought by Charles B. Landis and V. L. Rickets. It was in 1892 that the Civil War veteran
                            who printed the reply to the editorial found in the last wall-paper edition of the Vicksburg Citizen in 1863 found d the 
                        
                                    Carroll County
                                 Citizen at Delphi. The Times, which had been in the
                            hands of Rh no Isherwood for several years, was re-purchased by Mr. Crampton in 1900 and
                            consolidated with the Citizen. Though the Times was much
                            the older newspaper, the name Citizen was given preëminence and
                            the successor to the two papers that were merged became the Citizen-Times
                            and later the Citizen.—Editor]
               
                     before he was twenty-one years old, making him now one of the
                    very oldest Masons in the State. After the close of the war he advanced in Masonry from time to time
                    and is today a thirty-second degree Mason, He is also a member of the Order of Elks, a Knight of
                    Pythias and an Odd Fellow.
            At this writing (September 1, 1929), Colonel Crampton makes daily trips to his office in the State
                    House. He is an imposing figure, commanding in stature, erect in carriage, with a crown of white
                    hair upon his head. He resides at 2108 N. Meridian Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He is an exemplification of what it means to follow the advice that he himself has
                    always given to his children: "We must not fear life; we must love it."
         
         
         
            John Mahoney: An 
                        Indianapolis
                     Sculptor
            By GEORGE S. COTTMAN
            
            The recent razing of the old 
                        Franklin
                     building, at Market Street and Monument Circle, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , freshens my memory of an Indiana sculptor now well nigh forgotten, and never famous in
                    proportion to the work he actually did. A distinguishing feature of the building was a life-sized
                    statue of Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                     that for more than half a century, from its elevated niche above the main entrance,
                    looked calmly out over this central spot of the city during the many changes of that period. There
                    still remain a few old citizens, among them myself, who remember when the statue in question was
                    unveiled. The exact date I am unable to fix but according to my recollection it was about 1874. The
                    event was of enough interest to attract a goodly crowd, and it was a matter of newspaper note that
                    the creator of this statue was a young man, untaught in art, who was serving his apprenticeship as a
                    stone-cutter in the yard of the Carpenter Brothers, which occupied the northwest corner of 
                        Ohio
                    , and Meridian Streets. This firm had the contract for the stone work on the 
                        Franklin
                     building, and out of that fact arose the opportunity for the young genius to prove his
                    talent. Prior to this maiden effort and for a good while afterwards, it appears, he had no
                    instruction whatever in art. At that day in Indiana, indeed, there was small chance to learn
                    sculpturing and little sculpture to study. Mahoney, it is said, derived his inspiration chiefly from
                    the small pieces known as the Rogers groups, then popular as parlor ornaments. His ambition was to
                    study in 
                        Italy
                    , and to that end he began to save his earnings. By 1879, he was ready to accomplish his
                    purpose, though in the meantime he had married and assumed the responsibilities of a family. At 
                        Rome
                     he spent eighteen months in study. Particulars as to his stay there are meager, but
                    Professor Alligrati and 
                        Randolph
                     Rogers are mentioned as his instructors.
            Presumably he did not see his way financially to prolong his studies. At any rate, in 1880, he
                    returned to America, set tied in 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , and began seriously his chosen career. His
                    first public work was a bronze statue, heroic in size, of 
                    Morton McMichael, founder of the 
                        Philadelphia
                    
                    North American. This was placed in 
                        Fairmount
                     Park, 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and was followed by a monument in 
                  Cleveland, Ohio
               , to a captain
                    of industry named Chisholm. Next came a bas-relief for a board of trade building, though it is not
                    clear just where this was. Then there was a commission for a bronze group representing Pierre
                    Menard, the first Lieutenant-Governor of 
                        Illinois
                     trading with the Indians. This was placed in the state house grounds at 
                        Springfield
                    . His next work was in marble, being a large seated statue of Charles C. West, the 
                        Cincinnati
                     millionaire and donor of the Art Museum in Eden Park of that city.
            On the Pilgrims' Monument at 
                  Plymouth,
                            Massachusetts
               , Mahoney is represented by
                    two large figures, "Law" and "Freedom," and by a group in relief
                    depicting the signing of the compact in the cabin of the Mayflower. He is also credited with several
                    busts done in Augusta, 
                        Maine
                    , among them that of Governor Bodwell of that State. In 1889 he returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . A sketch of his life and work that appeared in the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal, for Aug. 3, 1890, adds to the list of his performances up to that
                    date, two pieces on the 
                        Gettysburg
                     battlefield; a soldier's monument at Seneca Falls, 
                        New York
                    ; a bronze memorial on the site of an Indian massacre that occurred at New Ulm, 
                        Minnesota
                    , in 1862; and a statue of General Solomon Meredith surmounting a tall column that
                    stands on the Meredith homestead near 
                        Cambridge City
                    , Indiana.1 In 1890 he competed for the pediment for the 
                        Kansas
                     capitol—an elaborate work with historical groups, but he was not employed to
                    execute this work. In fact the construction of the pediment was abandoned.2 In
                    the same year he did a large fountain surmounted by a bronze statue of Henry Bergh of heroic size.
                    This was sponsored by the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Humane Society, and stands near the City Hall in Milwaukee. Subsequent to that time he
                    did the pieces for which he is best known locally, those being the three bronze figures of General
                    George Rogers Clark, General William Henry Harrison and Governor 
                  
                     1 A notation on an existing photograph of this monument indicates that
                            It was made in 1876. Miss Mahoney states that her father made a death mask of General
                            Meredith which furnished the model for the statue. Meredith died in 1875. According to this
                            the piece followed soon after the 
                                Franklin
                             statue, and before receiving his training abroad.
                  
                     2 Mahoney had two competitors for this piece of work, Neihaus of 
                                New York
                             City and Komenski from the same city. Each of the three were paid
                            $1,000 for submitting designs in the competition. The models for the pediment and
                            for the statue of Ceres submitted by Mahoney were severely criticised by George E Hopkins in
                            the 
                                Topeka
                            
                            Daily Capital of April 6, 1890.
               
                     James Whitcomb, that stand in the Circle about the
                    Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In addition to these he made a life-size bronze statue of William H. English, and a
                    bronze relief of Colonel Eli Lilly. The latter is in the possession of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Chamber of Commerce.
            Mr. Mahoney left very few notes or other data regarding himself or his work, aside from a fragmentary
                    collection of photos of his pieces, now in possession of his daughter, Miss Esther Mahoney, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He seemed to care nothing for publicity and took no pains to perpetuate the memory of
                    his work. In his home city he is known only as the creator of the few pieces preserved there, and,
                    to most who read this sketch, it will doubtless be a surprise to learn of the number of his works to
                    be found scattered over the country. There are others beside those mentioned above of which little
                    is now known beyond the fact that they exist. Among them are a bust of James A. Garfield and several
                    mortuary figures in various places, including Crown Hill, 
                        St. Joseph
                     and Holy Cross cemeteries in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . One, of a winged child, is in the cemetery at Newman, 
                        Georgia
                    .
            Miss Mahoney tells an interesting ancedote in connection with the Harrison statue in Monument Place.
                    A distinguishing feature of this piece is a long military cloak which adds picturesqueness to the
                    figure. The first model of it, shown to the commission with whom rested its acceptance or rejection,
                    was without the garment named. It was accepted, but not with the unanimous approval craved by the
                    sculptor. This dissatisfied him, and while cudgelling his brain for a new conception that would
                    better come up to the mark, his wife suggested the addition of a cloak. He tried the suggestion,
                    making the figure as it now stands. This time approval by the commissioners was unanimous and
                    instantaneous. Thus, as the daughter humorously says, the cloak belonged to her mother.
            Mr. Mahoney was born in Usk, Monmouthshire, 
                        Wales
                    , June 24, 1855, of Irish parents. He came to Indiana with his parents in 1858, first
                    settling at 
                        North Vernon
                    . He removed to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1869. He died in that city September 14, 1919, and was buried in Holy Cross
                    cemetery. For some years prior to his death, he did little or no work along the line of his chosen
                    profession. He became active in city affairs, occupying official positions during the two terms of
                    Thomas Taggart as mayor of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
         
            Old Cemeteries in 
                        Knox County
                    
            
            By INEZ PURCELL JOICE
            
            There was a time many years ago, when 
                        Knox County
                     was but a wilderness—a deep, dark, almost impenetrable forest, whose
                    occupants were wild beasts, feathered songsters, shiny reptiles and tribes of wild men. There were
                    no homes, no schools, no churches, but from the banks of the Ohio River to the
                    shores of the Northern Lakes, and on, on, there were vast forests and prairies, unknown to the white
                    man's tread.
            When our Indiana country was first explored by white men, it was the home of the Kickapoo,
                    Piankashaw, and Miami Indians. They lived in villages located along navigable streams. One such
                    village stood along the 
                        Wabash
                     at the present site of 
                        Vincennes
                    . Near all the Indian villages were burying grounds, where the dead were interred. With
                    the dead warrior, were usually placed his weapons, his ornaments and a dish, or jar, containing
                    food, for the Indians believed that the spirit of the dead needed food as it journeyed to the
                    "happy hunting ground," which was their heaven. With the coming of white men into
                    this territory, there followed in his wake those things which made for civilization —the
                    family, the church, the school, agriculture, and trade. Life was not easy in any respect and many
                    were the premature deaths from disease and accidental causes. At first, burials were made in any
                    convenient spot, not apt to be molested by animals or Indians. These places became the family burial
                    grounds, a few of which still exist over the county—reminders of the fact that the family
                    in the primitive period was the essential unit around which most things revolved.
            The early settlers soon built churches and then cemeteries were plotted beside them. The oldest
                    cemetery, known as such, in 
                        Knox County
                    , is located beside the St. Francis Xavier Cathedral. It was once of immense size, but
                    its boundaries, when it was most extensive, are not known. They were obliterated with the passing of
                    years and now only a few stones remain to mark the graves of some of the earlier inhabitants of the
                    little village of 
                        Vincennes
                    . During the first years of  the 
                        Vincennes
                     church, the members buried their dead under the pews. There is a record that Josette
                    Marie, wife of Judta Tratierini, was buried under the family pew in December, 1750.
            The first records of this cemetery beside the Cathedral date back to 1749. Many people of some fame
                    were laid to rest there. Father Rivet, the first public school teacher in the old Northwest
                    Territory, lies in an unmarked grave, as do many others. The "Daughters of
                    Isabelle" are preparing to erect a monument to his memory. This early cemetery was not
                    divided into lots as are the cemeteries of to-day, but the graves were made side by side in rows,
                    with no reference to family relationships.
            The best known of those whose remains repose in this cemetery are Captain Francis Bosseron and Jane
                    Beneau. The latter was the wife of Toussant Dubois who died in 1800. Her gravestone is the oldest
                    one still standing. The grave of the wife of General 
                        Washington
                     Johnston is in this cemetery. Mr. Johnston was the first Mason of 
                        Vincennes
                    . He founded the local Masonic lodge which has had an unbroken history down to the
                    present. This old cemetery was used until 1846, when the "Mt. Calvary Cemetery"
                    was laid out. Some of the bodies were removed from the old to the new burying ground in that year.
            At the same time with the growth of the village of 
                        Vincennes
                    , there was also the gradual settlement of outlying districts of the County. The
                    "Upper Indiana Church Cemetery" is very old, with many historical stories related
                    concerning its location and its members. The origin of this cemetery was quite by accident or
                    chance. In the years just prior to, or immediately following 1800, settlers were coming into the 
                        Vincennes
                     area to find homes along the 
                        Wabash
                    . The land was a tangle of woods and underbrush. Wild game and Indians were plentiful.
                    The settlers, many of whom had been granted land by the 
                        United States
                     government because of their services during the Revolutionary War, found life
                    unrelenting and full of the hardships of the frontier, although 
                        Vincennes
                     had been an established trading post for about a century.
            Thomas Emison with his wife and family made their way from 
                        Kentucky
                     into 
                        Knox County
                    . He had been granted land in lieu of money for his Revolutionary services. Desiring  to find a suitable location for his home and farm out of the
                    high-water district, he passed through 
                        Vincennes
                     and on to the northward. Here he hoped to find a high knoll for his block-house and
                    near by a creek large enough to furnish water the year around. When evening came on, at the end of
                    the first day's travel out of 
                        Vincennes
                    , he reached the place where the Upper Indiana Church now stands. The land was high and
                    dry, and here the family decided to camp for the night. A small creek near by furnished them water.
            In addition to the immediate family, there was a niece of Mrs. Emison. She had not stood the long and
                    arduous journey very well and before reaching 
                        Vincennes
                     had fallen desperately ill. She did not survive the night at the new camp.
            The family was much saddened over this misfortune, but a new home must be found and necessity
                    demanded that they should move on in search of a suitable location. They decided to bury the girl
                    where they were encamped and mark the spot so that after they were settled, they could easily find
                    it again. As already noted, they had made camp on a high knoll. Two yew trees stood as sentinels
                    side by side on this little elevation. A grave was dug between them, and the last sad rites were
                    performed for the young woman. The grave had been made before the coming of dawn and by the time the
                    eastern sky was streaked with grey, a campfire gleamed over the fresh turned sod. By broad
                    day-light, the party was ready to continue on its way.
            There were doubts among the members of the company as to whether the ashes of the campfire would
                    successfully conceal the new-made grave from lurking savages. Fears were expressed lest the body
                    might be dug up and mutilated. In an effort to make the place less conspicious, the party drove
                    their wagons over the spot and trampled the ground as much as possible. Then the wagons took up
                    their groaning creak as the patient oxen toiled onward toward the goal of the pioneer family. This
                    is the story of the first grave in the "Upper Indiana Cemetery". The death
                    recorded occurred in 1801 or 1802.
            Mr. Emison located a few miles farther on near Maria Creek. There he built Fort Petticoat, a grist
                    mill and a saw-mill. In after years, this pioneer and the members of his family were buried in the
                    cemetery the location of which had  been established on that sad
                    night when the spot had been used as a suitable camp-site.
            A certain citizen of the community died shortly after the Civil War and his family wished to bury him
                    in the cemetery beside the church. Immediately there arose a great clamor, because he had been a
                    Confederate soldier. Some were determined that he should not be buried in hallowed ground. Finally,
                    the family was permitted to consign his body to a grave within the cemetery, but when they attempted
                    to place a monument, the trouble broke out afresh. The family was forced to place the gravestone
                    outside the fence. When later, the cemetery was enlarged, this monument was taken into the grounds,
                    and, at present, it stands very near the center of the graveyard. So are differences, aroused by
                    such great conflicts as the Civil War, blotted out by time and the changes that come of necessity.
                    Later generations forget or ignore old hatreds.
            Another' interesting fact, vouched for by those who know, is that Colonel James Paul
                    Badollet lies buried in this old cemetery. He was a graduate of West Point, being a member of the
                    first class. There are veterans of every war that the 
                        United States
                     has ever fought buried in this cemetery, showing that the people of this community have
                    been interested, not alone in their own private affairs, but in the welfare of the nation at large.
                    Living up to their convictions, they have sent forth their sons to champion the Nation in each hour
                    of need.
         
         
         
            The Site of the First Settlement in 
                        Hendricks County
                    
            
            By MRS. EDGAR M. BLESSING
            
            A history of 
                        Hendricks County
                    , Indiana, contains the statement that the first settlement was made in the spring of
                    1820, on White Lick Creek by 
                        Bartholomew
                     Ramsey, Samuel Harriman, Harris Bray, James Dunn, George Dunn, John W. Bryant, and
                    Ezekiel Moore. The same history, on a different page, furnishes the information that the site of the
                    first settlement was a few miles South of 
                        Plainfield
                    , giving the same list of settlers, with the omission of George Dunn and the inclusion
                    of George Moore instead of Ezekiel Moore. A statement from an unverified source, is to the effect
                    that George Dunn was a son of James Dunn. Ezekiel Moore was an early settler as verified by
                    government records. Consequently, the first list has been accepted as correct.
            There being no records in the 
                        Hendricks County
                     Court House to supplement this meager information, the Committee1
                    sought through the medium of newspapers to locate descendants of the seven men, said to have been
                    the earliest settlers of the County. It was hoped that family records might be discovered. The
                    Committee communicated with the Commissioner of the General Land Office of the 
                        United States
                     in 
                        Washington
                    ; interviewed the oldest inhabitants of Hendricks and Morgan Counties; searched for
                    information in the Indiana State Library and in the 
                        Morgan County
                     records—in short, did everything that could be done to obtain the data
                    desired.
            
               
                  1 The Wa-pe-ke-way Chapter, Daughters of the American Revolution was the
                        local organization responsible for marking the site of the first settlement in 
                            Hendricks County
                        . The design first took form in the mind of Mrs. Thomas R. Barker, organizing regent
                        of the Chapter. It was suggested by the national organization that a new chapter be given, when
                        feasible, the name of an individual, place, or event—or of something outstanding in
                        the history of the community in which a chapter should be organized. The history of 
                            Hendricks County
                         was delved into, and it was found that the earliest event of importance in
                        connection therewith, aside from the cession of the area including the lands of the County to
                        the Government of the 
                            United States
                         by the Indians, in 1818, was the first settlement made by White men. This was on
                        the banks of the Wa-pe-ke-way, the Indian name for "White Salt", or, as it has
                        come down to the present, "White Rock". This beautiful Indian name was decided
                        upon for the local chapter of the D.A.R. The significance of the name created in the mind of
                        Mrs. Barker the desire to locate the site of this first settlement and to mark it appropriately.
                        To this end she appointed a Committee, composed of Mrs. F. M. Harrison, Miss Sadie Cook, Mrs.
                        Edward Weesner, and Mrs. Edgar M. Blessing, the writer of this article. It proved that the duty
                        of this Committee was to achieve the impossible, if the exact site of the first settlement in 
                            Hendricks County
                         were to be located.
            
            
            The result was the location of descendants of 
                        Bartholomew
                     Ramsey, John W. Bryant, Harris Bray and Samuel Harriman. The graves of these four
                    pioneers were discovered. The grave of Ramsey is in Guilford Township; the Bryant burial place is in
                    the Stilesville Cemetery; the remains of Bray and Harriman repose in the 
                        Mooresville
                     Cemetery. The Committee discovered an accumulation of interesting information
                    concerning Mr. Ramsey's early life in 
                        Hendricks County
                    .
            The story has been handed down through the Ramsey family that he came to the unbroken wilderness of
                    what is now 
                        Hendricks County
                     in 1814. In that year he is said to have pre-empted land near White Lick Creek. Here,
                    according to family tradition, he lived with the Delawares until they departed for the reservations
                    provided for them by Congress, after they had ceded their own lands in Indiana to the Federal
                    Government.
            On 
                        Bartholomew
                     Ramsey's gravestone which stands on the brow of an elevation above White Lick
                    Creek, is chiseled the statement that he pre-empted his farm in 1814, and that he died in 1825. This
                    information seems to be erroneous. The death date should be 1833, since the abstract of title to the
                    farm establishes the fact that the pioneer's will was made on June 15, 1833, and probated
                    on August 12, 1833. Government records show that no pre-emption filings were made prior to 1820, and
                    the abstract of title indicates that Ramsey purchased the land from Anthony Vernon, its first owner,
                    in 1825. Vernon made an entry for it on November 4, 1822, paying cash.2
            
            Of the family of the pioneer Ramsey, two grandchildren, Mrs. Elizabeth Snipes and Mr. Daniel Jones
                    are now living in 
                        Hendricks County
                     near 
                        Plainfield
                    . Other grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and great-great grandchildren are living in
                    this and other sections of the county.
            In John W. Bryant's family, there were fifteen children. Of his descendants, there are now
                    living in 
                        Hendricks County
                     four grandchildren. They are Mrs. Mary B. Sharp, Mrs. Ruth Elrod, Mrs. Rose Draper, and
                    Mr. Greeley Bryant, all of Coatesville. There are many other grandchildren, great- 
                  
                     2 It is possible that the word pre-emption as used in the gravestone
                            inscription was not employed in a legal sense. Pioneer Ramsey may have occupied the land as
                            a "squatter" in 1814, and have found it necessary to purchase it from
                            Vernon In 1825, the latter having secured a patent In 1822 under the Public Lands Act of
                            1820.
               
                     grandchildren and great-great grandchildren—in fact,
                    hosts of descendants of the pioneer Bryant are scattered through the land.
            Of the Harris Bray family there are three grandchildren, Mrs. Laura Hildebrand, Mr. William Sheets
                    and Mr. Albert Sheets, as well as other descendants living at Cartersburg.3
            
            No representatives of the Samuel Harriman family now live in 
                        Hendricks County
                    , but Mr. Frank Sheets, a grandson formerly resided in the County.
            Unable to find documentary evidence establishing the exact site of the first settlement in 
                        Hendricks County
                    , there was nothing for the Committee to do but choose a spot in the vicinity of
                    "White Lick a few miles south of 
                        Plainfield
                     near the 
                        Morgan County
                     Line", and call it the approximate site of the first settlement.
            
               
                        Bartholomew
                     Ramsey's grave is on the west or opposite bank of the stream and almost due
                    west of the spot selected. The first church and burial ground, which were established in 1823, are
                    on the hill east of the chosen ground. The approximate site selected, intermediate between these two
                    points, surely can not be far out of place. It is a little more than four and one-half miles south
                    of 
                        Plainfield
                     and three-tenths of a mile north of the 
                        Morgan County
                     line.
            The spot marked as the site of the first settlement in 
                        Hendricks County
                     is located on one of the early farms entered in the County. The date of its entry was,
                    November 5, 1822. The pioneer who received the patent from the Federal Government was Eli Hadley.
                    The land is now owned by Mr. Jefferson Miles, a resident of 
                  Mooresville, Morgan County
               , but a
                    native son of 
                        Hendricks County
                    . He has most graciously given the plot for the marker to the Wa-pe-ke-way Chapter,
                    Daughters of the American Revolution.
            The site of the first settlement selected with as much accuracy as possible, the Committee's
                    next task was to find a native stone suitable for a marker. Several were offered and considered, but
                    inaccessibility, or dimensions (too small or too large) eliminated them. Finally, Mr. E. M. Murphy
                    found one in Eel River Township, just about as far from the spot to be
                    dedicated as it could be and still be in 
                        Hendricks County
                    . Mr. Merritt Gregory and Mr. Frank Haynes took care of its 
                  
                     3 William G. Bray, probably a descendant of Harris Bray, Is now
                            prosecuting Attorney for the 
                                Morgan County
                             Circuit.
               
                     transportation. It is now the central figure of a plot that is
                    to be beautified by a sodded terrace and plantings of evergreens and shrubs.
            In the list of members of the Wa-pe-ke-way Chapter, Daughters of the American Revolution, there is no
                    known descendant of any one of the first seven settlers of the County. In 
                        Hendricks County
                    's organization of the Children of the American Revolution, the White Lick
                    Society, there is just one known descendant, George 
                        Franklin
                     Draper of 
                        Danville
                    , a great-grandson of 3ohn W. Bryant. To this little lad fell the honor of unveiling the
                    marker and the tablet erected and dedicated to the memory of the seven pioneers who are recorded as
                    the first who came to establish homes on the soil of 
                        Hendricks County
                    .4
            
            
               
                  4 The date of the unveiling of the marker was June 9, 1929.
            
         
         
         
            Captain John C. Hedrick: Mexican War Veteran
            A few months ago the following statement came to the Magazine from Bourbon,
                    Indiana. It was written by a young Boy Scout, Howard Hillis, Jr., and indicates an early interest in
                    matters of local history by this young citizen: 
                        Before the Civil War, a Mexican War veteran John C. Hedrick came to 
                                Marshall County
                             Indiana and settled near Bourbon. A little before the Civil War through his
                            efforts a company of volunteers was organized and he was made Captain. This company later
                            went to war. The Captain died about 1878 and was buried in an obscure private lot. For
                            nearly fifty years his grave was neglected but in 1926 the Boy Scouts discovered it and
                            honored it with a flag.
                    
            
            Inquiry has revealed that the Boy Scouts of Bourbon, and especially Master Howard Hillis, became
                    interested in Captain Hedrick after reading certain paragraphs in an old history of 
                        Marshall County
                    ,1 relating to the organization of a militia company at Bourbon in
                    the interval between the Mexican and Civil Wars: 
                        
                     
                                Marshall County
                             has always been patriotic and has produced her full share of illustrious
                            military celebrities. The Mexican War infused a military spirit into the patriotically
                            inclined, and a few veterans who took part in the Mexican campaign still survive. In 1854,
                            the Bourbon Light Infantry was organized through the exertions of Captain John C. Hedrick, a
                            Mexican War veteran, who voted for Andrew Jackson for President. The articles of association
                            are in the well known handwriting of Capt. Hedrick, on the 13th day of May, 1854. Those who
                            "enlisted" pledged themselves to continue in the
                            "service" for a period of six years unless sooner discharged. Each member
                            was required to uniform himself with a pair of fine boots with red top fronts, white
                            drilling pantaloons, a red sash at least six feet in length, a black or deep blue frock
                            coat, a black stock, black glazed cap, plait and plume. The company was required to meet at
                            Bourbon for drill on the last Saturday of April, May, June, August and September and on the
                            4th of July of every year. It was provided that each officer who should behave in an
                            "unofficer"-like manner while on parade should be fined one dollar and each
                            un-commissioned officer and private who should behave in an unsoldier-like manner while on
                            duty should be fined 50 cents. Any member who should get drunk while on duty, if a
                            commissioned officer should be fined $5, and all others $2, and be
                            liable to be discharged by the Captain. Fines 
                        
                           1 Daniel McDonald, History of 
                                            Marshall County
                                        
                            (
                                        Chicago
                                    , 1881), 57-58. This author published a later history of the County in
                                    two volumes in 1908, but the earlier work of 1881 is the one which fell into the
                                    hands of Howard Hillis, Jr.
                     
                             collected were applied to the payment of the musicians
                            and the other necessary expenses of the company.
                        On application of Rufus 
                                Brown
                            , Colonel of the Fifth Regiment of the Indiana Militia, the Board of
                            Commissioners ordered the necessary arms and the accoutrements to be forwarded to the
                            company by the Governor. The following were elected officers of the company: John C.
                            Hedrick, Captain; John E. Moony First Lieutenant; William Bennett Second Lieutenant; William
                            McWhorter Sergeant; Ralph Curry Second Sergeant; William 
                                Brown
                             Third Sergeant; E. G. Mulser Fourth Sergeant; Oliver Morris Treasurer; John
                            McWhorter John Sharley and John Nidig, drummers; Isaac Noel, First Corporal; Ben Johnson,
                            Second Corporal; Zachariah Senior, Third Corporal; William Gillespie, Fourth Corporal. Among
                            the scarred veterans who still live [1881] are the familiar names of Stephen Sharp, Jeptha
                            Disher, Jesse Burkett, Salathiel Lightner, Harmon Baylor, and John Baxter, in addition to
                            some of the officers above named. Whether the company lived out the alloted time specified
                            in the articles of association is not stated, and the information at hand is confined to the
                            above narrative.
                    
            
            The Boy Scouts found the grave of Captain Hedrick at the southeast corner of a rolling forty-acre
                    tract on which the captain once lived for several years. His home was a log-cabin, which stood until
                    a few years ago. It was located at the northeast corner of his farm. The little Hedrick farm now
                    forms a part of a larger unit owned by Walter S. Baker. The captain's home was a half-mile
                    south and about a half-mile west of Bourbon. It was not on the main road, but was reached by a
                    narrow lane, an open right-of-way, which ran westward from the road almost a half-mile. This little
                    used lane is still open, though an attempt to close it, which resulted in litigation, was made a few
                    years ago.
            The grave of Captain Hedrick is unmarked except by a lilac bush, but a marker erected near the end of
                    1875, or later, indicates that at least two of his children were buried in the lot. There may have
                    been others. The second of the two children whose deaths are indicated on the marker died on
                    September 3, 1875. Evidently the father was still living then as the inscription carries the words,
                    "Sons of J. C. and M. Hedrick." This marker was probably erected by Captain
                    Hedrick. By 1880, the forty-acre tract had come into the possession of another owner. As the Captain
                    probably owned the land to the time of his death, it seems likely that he died at some time between
                    1875 and 1880. The date given to the Boy Scouts, in 1926, by some old resident of Bourbon, is no
                    doubt correct; that is, Captain Hedrick "died about 1878".
            
            McDonald, the historian of 
                        Marshall County
                    , says that Hedrick voted for Andrew Jackson for President. If this was in 1832, he was
                    born at least as early at 1810 or 1811. He may have been born earlier, but it is not likely, as the
                    son who died in 1875 was but a babe of nine months. Though a veteran of the Mexican War, there is no
                    certainty that he came out of that service a Captain. It is probable that his military title dates
                    from the time when he was elected Captain of the Bourbon Light Infantry in 1854. He seems not to
                    have seen any service in the Civil War.2
            
            
               
                  2 For the information presented relative to Captain John C. Hedriek, the
                            Magazine is indebted to Howard Hillis, Sr.
            
         
         
         
            Francis Bosseron
            By JANET P. SHAW
            
            Francis Rider Bosseron,1 the original owner of the Account Book reprinted below
                    was one of the most prominent citizens of 
                        Vincennes
                     when Colonel George Rogers Clark took possession of the town in 1778, and again in
                    1879, if we may judge by the positions of trust which he filled and his services to the Americans.
                    Although he was only thirty years of age when he welcomed Father Gibault and helped to win over the
                    French citizens to the American cause,2 he was already Mayor of the little city
                    and had probably held the position for several years. He was also owner of the village store, head
                    of a successful trading company which employed most of the men of the place as coureurs
                        de bois or as hunters, and a banker whose bons [checks], drafts, and
                    bills of exchange were honored from Montreal and 
                        Detroit
                     to 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        New Orleans
                    .
            The family of Bosseron was probably of noble rank in 
                        France
                     as the name is commonly written Rider de Bosseron in the earlier
                    records. The first representatives of the family in this country of whom we have any information
                    were two brothers, Charles and Jean Bte Rider de Bosseron, who were well known in the French trading
                    posts about the middle of the eighteenth century. By 1761, they were conducting such a successful
                    trade in 
                        Kaskaskia
                     that they decided to divide forces. They drew up a legal agreement of partnership,8 which is still interesting because of the sturdy honesty and mutual respect of
                    the brothers, which it reveals. Charles, the father of Francis, set out for 
                        New Orleans
                     after the partnership was formed. Sometime later he made his way to 
                        Vincennes
                     and established a branch business there. It is possible that Francis, then a boy of
                    thirteen, accompanied his father to far-away 
                        New Orleans
                     and acted as his amanuensis. 
                  
                     1 This sketch of the Life of Francis Bosseron has been compiled almost
                            entirely from material found in the Lasselle Collection mentioned in the foreword to the
                            Account Book below. A part of this collection consists of the original documents and a part
                            of copies made by Mr. Lasselle or other members of his family.
                  
                     2 The age of Bosseron is established by his marriage license,
                            preserved in the Lasselle collection of manuscripts in the Indiana State Library. He was
                            twenty five years old at the time of his marriage in July, 1773.
                  
                     3 The agreement of partnership between Charles and Jean Bte Bosseron
                            is preserved in the Lasselle Collection. It was still in force in the seventeen-eighties as
                            Francis Bosseron paid money at that time to the widow of his uncle.
               
                     The elder Bosseron was unable to sign his name and the
                    handwriting of Francis appears on various business documents of the company early in the
                    seventeen-sixties. Charles died in 1774,4 leaving the business to his son, then
                    twenty-six years old and already an experienced trader.
            The importance of young Bosseron was still further increased by his marriage to Francoise, the
                    daughter of the later Sieur Joseph Antoine Drouet de Richeville, a man of family and ability, to
                    whom Governor St Ange had entrusted the command of the militia when he was compelled to leave 
                        Vincennes
                     on account of illness. The young Mayor was also appointed guardian of the two minor
                    children of Sieur de Richeville, Margueritte and Antoine, at the request of the widow who wished to
                    marry a second time.5 This fact probably gave rise to the story of the two
                    orphans said to have been adopted by the Mayor, whose experiences are related in the novel, Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
               , by Maurice Thompson.
            The importance of the part played by Bosseron in the events connected with the capture of 
                        Vincennes
                     by Colonel Clark can hardly be over-estimated. Father Gibault must have known the
                    Bosseron family for several years prior to this time, both in 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    . A receipt [dated January, 1777], proves that the churchman sometimes carried small
                    packages from town to town for the merchant [Bosseron] when he was traveling about on his pastoral
                    duties. It is therefore probable that he was relying on his knowledge of the Mayor's
                    friendship for the 
                        United States
                     when he volunteered to plead the American cause for Clark in 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            It is certain that Bosseron did become a loyal ally of the new American nation, and that he gave
                    Colonel Clark valuable assistance. He was elected Captain of the militia before Father Gibault left
                    the town and made temporary commander of the fort; and on the 10th of August following, he received
                    the first commission issued by Clark in the west.6 The records in the old
                    Account Book prove that all through the fall he 
                  
                     4 Charles Bosseron was allowed to make his mark instead of writing his
                            name upon his son's marriage record [mentioned above] as he claimed he was unable
                            to write.
                  
                     5 There are a number of papers relating to the division of the
                            property of Sieur de Richeville preserved in the Lasselle collection. Among these is a
                            complete list of all household articles, filed by the administrators of the estate. These
                            were divided between the widow and the three childrn. Bosseron's bride brought to
                            her new home a dozen hens, her own porridge bowls of blue fayence, a
                            complete bed, folding table, pieces of cloth, a half share in a negro servant, etc.
                  
                     6 The Indiana State Library has several copies of Bosseron's
                            commission. These were translated and prepared by Mr. Lasselle. The commission is labelled
                            "No. 1."
               
                     provided for the needs of the garrison and the comfort of
                    Captain Helm without receiving any money.7 Moreover, it is almost certain that
                    this account was refused payment by the commissioners appointed by the State of 
                        Virginia
                     to settle the 
                        Illinois
                     claims and that the patriotic Mayor was finally compelled to bear almost the entire
                    expense of the much-praised occupation of 
                        Vincennes
                     in the summer of 1778 by the American forces.
            When Clark appeared before 
                        Vincennes
                     in the following February with his handful of men exhausted by hard marching and
                    exposure, and his powder soaked with water, Bosseron was one of the first to offer hospitality to
                    the weary men, and it was the powder and shot which he and a few other loyal Frenchmen had hidden
                    from the British, which Clark used to capture the newly repaired fort and the strong force of
                    Red-Coats in possession of it.
            Here is Clark's own account of the event: 
                        Amunition was scarce with us as most of our stores had been put on the galley; but
                            fortunately at the time of its being reported that the whole of the goods in the town were
                            to be taken for the king's use, Col. Legras, Major Bosseron and others had buried
                            the greatest part of their powder and ball. This was immediately produced and we found
                            ourselves well supplied by those gentlemen.
                    
            
            Bosseron had yet another share in the surrender of the British garrison at this time. When the fort
                    was given up, it was necessary for the Americans to secure immediately the seven boats with supplies
                    and reënforcements which were expected at any minute by 
                        Hamilton
                    . Clark and his men were naturally too weary to set out on such an expedition at once
                    and so he entrusted the important task to Helm, Legras, Bosseron, and a small party of helpers. The
                    men "surrounded and took the whole [group] prisoners without firing a shot." Clark
                    was greatly pleased by this feat as it not only provided much needed supplies for the soldiers and
                    townspeople but put an end to all hopes of relief for the British. He bestowed high praise on the
                    men who performed the exploit.
            Meanwhile, Bosseron's bills for supplies and his numerous loans were not paid and were
                    rapidly growing into an account of huge proportions for a pioneer merchant to carry. In 1780, 
                  
                     7 See memorandum of bills of exchange owed to Bosseron by the 
                                United States
                             Government in Account Book. Also, see translation of the Account Book.
               
                     another crisis arose for the Americans and Clark was compelled
                    to ask for the French merchant's help once more.
            From various sources the Americans had learned that the British were planning a general attack
                    against all the western settlements in order to regain possession of the country they had lost. This
                    made it necessary for Clark to set about building a fort near the mouth of the Ohio
                    river in order to protect American shipping interests on the 
                        Mississippi
                     which were constantly threatened by both Spanish and English boats, and, at the same
                    time, establish a center from which troops could be dispatched on short notice to the assistance of
                    both the 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     settlements.
            Clark had received orders to build such a fort in the secret instructions given him by Governor
                    Patrick Henry at the beginning of the western campaign, but had been unable to carry out the plan
                    earlier because he could not secure men for the undertaking without withdrawing those on the 
                        Wabash
                    . He knew that any weakening in that locality would invite the British to raid the
                        Wabash valley after which they could move at will on the defenseless 
                        Kentucky
                     settlers. Finally, on the 20th of February, he received a letter from Pierre Prevost, a
                    Kaskaskian who was engaged in trade on the upper 
                        Mississippi
                    , warning him that the British were stirring up the Indians about Mackinac to attack
                    Cahokia, 
                        St. Louis
                    , and other posts of the 
                        Illinois
                     country. Clark realized that something must be done at once or the results of all his
                    campaigning would be lost. Eight days later he sent the following letter to "Major
                    Bosseron, Esqr., Aux St. Vincent's": 
                        I have this day received by express an account of the situation of the Garrison and the
                            probability of its being evacuated for want of Supplies of Provisions that unfortunately
                            Perished on the Ouabash. I expected in a short time to support with what men and Provisions
                            I pleased and could wish that the present troops could continue for a few weeks longer as
                            the evacuation of the place at present, will be attended with bad consequences. Sensible
                            that you have always done whatever lay within your power to support the Troops even to your
                            own disadvantage, and would continue the same Service, had you the funds to support you, yet
                            I must solicit you to exert yourself once more in behalf of the State, and, if possible
                            victual the garrison for a short time longer. The Winter, now broke a few weeks, will
                            greatly alter our circumstances; but to enable you to do it, I now enclose an order on Col.
                            Montgomery for 1500 livres of peltry to defray present expenses. The Persons you purchase
                            from may not doubt your payment, for you shall be enabled, if the credit of the State is
                            sufficient, to procure it immediately, which I  expect
                            will be as good in 
                                Illinois
                             in the insuing year, as it was bad the last, as certain and Permanent measures
                            is adopted for defraying Public expenses. Sixty five Thousand milled Dollars, I expect is
                            now in Orleans for defraying the last, and a house established in Prance for the payment of
                            future Bills. If the Peltry should fail, Capt. Dodge, the agent, shall pay you in goods.
                        I learn that there is a report of a number of Savages collected at Omi with an Intention to
                            disturb the settlement of St. Vincents. I hope it's groundless. If not, I could
                            only wish they Keep off for a few weeks and I think they would be more sensible of that
                            Interest.
                        Capt. Bayley will give you the news none of importance.8
                  
                    
            
            In some way Bosseron was able to accomplish the task Clark had given him to perform. He pacified the
                    disaffected volunteers and, although the Continental Congress had not paid his other bills, found
                    the means to provision the garrison again.
            Clark was now free to build the much needed fort, which was named Fort Jefferson at Red Banks, on the 
                        Mississippi
                    , five miles south of the mouth of the Ohio river. The work was
                    begun in April and progressed so rapidly that in May, when word came that the British forces were
                    marching toward Cahokia, Clark was able to leave the new Fort. He succeeded in reaching Cahokia
                    twenty-four hours before the attack began. When the British discovered that the town had been
                    reinforced by the leader whom they feared most of all, they made a half-hearted attack but soon
                    withdrew to 
                        St. Louis
                    , and not long after left the country. There were doubtless several causes for the
                    defeat of the enemy at this time, but "the most potent reason for the precipitate retreat
                    and the total defeat of the objects hoped for by the British officials was the opportune appearance
                    of Clark who was supposed to be beyond striking distance at the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    ."9
            
            It is the opinion of many historians of the Northwest Territory that the relief of the 
                        Mississippi
                     posts, while less dramatic than the capture of Fort Sackville, was the high point of
                    Clark's career, since it secured to the 
                        United States
                     the territory acquired by the earlier victory and established the Mississippi
                        river as the western boundary of the nation. But what of Francis Bosseron? Should not
                    the man whose loyalty 
                  
                     8 Clark to Bosseron. 
                                Louisville
                            , February 28, 1780. A copy of this important letter which is endorsed by
                            Lassalle: "The above copied by me from the original," is in the Indiana
                            State Library collection. The writer has found no mention of it by any historian.
                  
                     9 Canadian Archives, 1882, p.35. Quoted in James A. James, Life of George Rogera Clark.
                  
               
                     and self sacrifice freed Clark for the task which doubled the
                    territory of the new nation share to some extent in the honors paid the great leader?
            The latter part of Bosseron's career seems to have been full of financial losses and other
                    misfortunes. With Clark he was accused of plotting against Spanish subjects in Natchez, but the
                    charges were dismissed when it was shown that he acted only under the orders of the General. When
                    the French judges of the 
                        Illinois
                     country were accused of land frauds, Bosseron was one of those indicted. The men
                    pleaded that they had intended no wrong but had followed the old French customs which permitted such
                    officials to assign lands. The judges were not punished but the titles to such lands were declared
                    void and many citizens of 
                        Vincennes
                     lost property which they had obtained in good faith.
            Sadder still, the solemn promises of Clark that whatever debts Bosseron should contract would be
                    paid, "if the credit of the State is sufficient", were not fulfilled. In the
                    Account Book may be found a memorandum of a part of the letters of exchange which Bosseron had
                    accepted at different times from Clark's representatives. These were sent to the 
                        Virginia
                     Commissioners appointed to settle the 
                        Illinois
                     claims. Finally, in 1783, the following decision was reached: 
                        In the House of Delegates [
                                Virginia
                            ], Saturday, June 28, 1783.
                        It appears that there is due to Francis Bosseron the sum of five thousand and twenty four
                            pounds, ten shillings and six pence specie.
                        Resolved that the Treasurer be directed to pay to the said Francis Bosseron the sum of three
                            hundred dollars out of any public money in his hands for his present Releaf and that the
                            auditors issue their warrants for the Balance with an allowance of two years interest
                            thereon, at the rate of five per centum per annum, to be paid out of such funds as shall
                            hereafter be established for the payment of debts of similar kind.
                        Resolved that the Bills of Exchange numbered 9 and the certified account numbered 5 be
                            returned to the Petitioner.
                        Signed and Teste.
                        June 28, 1783.
                        Agreed to by the Senate.
                        Also Bill of Exchange, $220-No. 114. June 17, 1779.
                    
            
            "Bill of Exchange No. 9" seems to have been that given to Bosseron to pay for the
                    supplies provided for Captain Helm during the fall of 1778, which is recorded in
                    the old Account Book, as that is the only one we know of which has a certified account attached to
                    it and the amounts are approximately the  same if interest be
                    added. The discussion in regard to the bill dragged on until 1789 and then it was repudiated by the
                    Commissioners. This is proved by the following from the Journal: 
                        Bills of Bosseron.
                        No. 9. A Bill of Exchange first drawn by Leonard Helm in favor of Francis
                                Bosseron for 1067 Dollars, dated November 19, 1779, on the 
                                Pay
                             Master General of the State of 
                                Virginia
                            . This Bill comes under the first general remark, page 148, and the
                            Commissioners think it ought not to be charged to the State.
                        General Remark, page 148, is as follows, viz;
                        The Commissioners can by no means depart from the principle that the State is not obliged to
                            Honor Bills drawn by Persons unauthorized but where the State has been furnished with
                            articles to the amount, which articles have been really applied to the support of the
                            Troops, such Bills, they are of the opinion ought to be taken at the real value of the
                            articles when furnished.
                        A true extract of the Journal of the Commissioners appointed by the General Assembly to
                            adjust claims against the Commonwealth in the 
                                Illinois
                             department. Certified under my hand as Auditor of Public Accounts for the State
                            of 
                                Virginia
                            , the 26th day of March, 1789.
                        
                     
                                Virginia
                             Auditor's office.
                        John Pendleton.
                    
            
            How much Bosseron eventually received from the 
                        United States
                     in payment for the more than twenty-six thousand dollars worth of warrants which these
                    excerpts prove to have been due to him, we have no means of knowing, but we have proof that in 1784
                    he sold more than half of these warrants for a third of their value. This was possibly due in part
                    to the fact that General Clark, who had guaranted the payment of his claims, was removed from
                    command in July, 1783, and was himself compelled to make the long journey to 
                        Virginia
                     to beg the Governor for money to pay for necessary food and clothing. Moreover the
                    paper money which the French had been compelled to receive from the Americans was practically
                    worthless at this time and most of the people of 
                        Vincennes
                     were greatly impoverished. Fearing that he would lose what was left of his small
                    capital, Bosseron sold his warrants for what he could get.
            The original bill of sale signed by Bosseron proves that at this time he exchanged at a great
                    sacrifice the sum of three thousand pounds in warrants for one thousand pounds in specie, a loss of
                    ten thousand hard-earned dollars—because of his loyalty to the country of his adoption.
                    The document reads as follows: 
                    
                        I have this 20th day of February, 1784, sold unto Francis Graves & John Thompson the
                            sum of three thousand pounds 
                                Virginia
                            , in warrants on the Treasurer of the state of 
                                Virginia
                             for the sum of One Thousand pounds 
                                Virginia
                             currency in specie which is to be paid in twelve days from the date hereupon in
                            the town of Winchester and the warrants delivered in the payment of the said sum of one
                            thousand pounds specie. We witness our hand the day and year as above written. In case the
                            said Francis Graves & John Thompson should not meet at Winchester according to the
                            time above mentioned and pay the sum of one thousand pounds specie this document of writing
                            is void.10
                  
                    
            
            Below the signatures of the contracting parties, the following entries or endorsements appear on the
                    bill of sale: 
                        Complied with to me by virtue of a power from Mr. Graves for the sum of eleven hundred and
                            seventy pounds in certificates.
                        H. Sparks"
                        I do certify that today the within agreement was settled and strictly complied with this 7th
                            day of April, 1784.
                        J. Thompson.
                        Test Jno Smith."
                    
            
            Bosseron died in 1791, at the early age of forty-three, bankrupt and, according to a tradition in the
                    family, disillusioned. An effort was made later to have officials of the 
                        United States
                     reconsider the findings of the Commissioners in regard to his warrants for the benefit
                    of his family but without success. He left six daughters and one son but as the oldest was only
                    seventeen at the time of the father's death, patriotic deeds of the parent were soon
                    forgotten. Today, we are told, there is no one of his family living in the old town which he helped
                    to make famous.
            Historians, too, have given scant honor to Francis Bosseron and his name is often omitted from the
                    list of those who were most helpful to Clark. This, we believe, is because his story has never been
                    well known. For, according to Clark's own testimony [quoted above], he rendered most
                    valuable service both in the capture and holding of 
                        Vincennes
                     for the Americans, in 1778-1779, and he made it possible for Clark to protect the posts
                    on the 
                        Mississippi
                     in 1780, thus helping to preserve the great empire of the Northwest Territory for the
                    nation.
            
               
                  10 The original bill of sale is in the Indiana State Library. It is signed
                        by Bosseron, Graves, and Thompson.
            
         
         
         
            Documents Account Book of Francis Bosseron
            Edited by JANET P. SHAW
            
            
                    Foreword
                
            The Bosseron Account Book, printed below in the original French and in translation, owes its
                    importance to the fact that it was kept by Francis Bosseron, a pioneer merchant and the Mayor of 
                        Vincennes
                    , at intervals during the period from September, 1777, until January, 1782, while the
                    forces of the British and Americans were struggling for possession of the town. It is the longest
                    manuscript in the so-called Lasselle Collection of business and family papers, newspaper files,
                    etc., belonging to the Lasselle and Bosseron families in pioneer times, which were gathered together
                    by the late Charles Bosseron Lasselle, a grandson of Mayor Bosseron. The Collection was acquired by
                    the Indiana State Library in 1908.
            The chief value of the old Account Book lies naturally in the first-hand information it furnishes of
                    conditions in 
                        Vincennes
                     when the town was captured by the Americans, and the proofs it affords of the valuable
                    assistance given to George Rogers Clark by Mayor Bosseron, timely and necessary aid that has never
                    been generally recognized.
            It is a very human document for it possesses the unique interest of revealing, often from day to day,
                    the purposes and occupations of various people who are at present in the limelight of history. With
                    the help of a very little imagination, the student of the entries may see Captain Helm arriving in
                    the town with almost no money and not long after, September 25th, beginning to requisition supplies
                    for the garrison and comforts of various kinds for himself from the hospitable Mayor. All through
                    the fall he is shown making friends with the neighboring tribes of Indians—with
                    "Tobacco and his band", "the chief of the Pians", "the
                    Loup chief", "the Ouyatanons", "the Outasias",
                    "the Souteux", "the Coux savages", etc.—doubtless
                    preparing the way for Colonel Clark to make treaties when he was free to leave the 
                        Illinois
                     country.
            
            In the same record may be found the facts in regard to the purchase of the historic flag of 
                        Vincennes
                     and its maker, Madame Goderre, the "Betsey Ross of the West". It is
                    shown here to have been a red and green pennant [pavilion] or company banner,
                    presumably prepared for the volunteer company of which Mayor Bosseron was captain.
            On December 17th, 1778, the day when the British army was reported to be "not three miles
                    distant", the dauntless American obtained from his friend Bosseron, 241 pounds of beef and
                    150 pounds of powder, apparently in a last desperate effort to hold the fort against 
                        Hamilton
                     and his army of Indians and Red Coats.
            The Account Book is also of interest for the insight it gives into French pioneer book-keeping. All
                    accounts are naturally recorded in French livres, sous [or sols], and deniers. The sign of the livre resembles a
                    ditto mark. Spanish piastres and American dollars are also current coins and have
                    the same value [five livres.] Individual accounts are usually labelled as due in
                    pelts or livres, 12 livres in pelts being equal to 10 in specie
                    in some of the business transactions recorded in Bosseron's various papers.
            The text of the manuscript is reproduced here with as much accuracy as possible. The original is a
                    thin ledger-shaped pamphlet, consisting of perhaps thirty pages, sewed together by hand and provided
                    with a cover of brown wrapping paper. It is not possible to indicate the faded ink, the careless
                    penmanship, the illegible and scratched out entries, the worn pages, etc. Capitals are scattered
                    about with little regard for rule or uniformity. The spelling is, in many places, confusingly
                    phonetic and often varies from line to line in other ways. However, in spite of all these confusing
                    conditions, the book is surprisingly clear as a whole, and Bosseron shows himself to have been in
                    many ways, a man of ability and one of much better education than most of the people of the time.
            The account book contains five records which are all more or less distinct:
                  Bosseron's Day Book from March 9th, 1779, to the following July. This was a time
                            of unusual prosperity in the village as a result of the payment of salaries and other bills
                            by the British officers before their departure as prisoners of war. A statement of the
                            division of the stores captured with  the boats intended
                            for 
                                Hamilton
                            , etc. (First fourteen pages of the Account Book.)
                  A memorandum of bills of exchange accepted by Bosseron from the Americans in return for
                            supplies, loans, services to the army, etc. (Fifteenth page.)
                  One page of the British account—evidently incomplete. (Sixteenth page.)
                  The personal account of Captain Helm. (Seventeenth and eighteenth pages.)
                  An itemized bill for supplies furnished Helm for the volunteer garrison of the Fort from
                            September 25th, 1778, until the coming of the British on December 17th. (Nineteenth,
                            twentieth and twenty-first pages.)
               
            
            [ACCOUNT BOOK OF FRANCIS BOSSERON]
            
                    [First page]1
               
                    Le 9 Mars2 [1779] fort henry Patrik3
               
                    
                  
                     Doit M. LaSelle4 1 lre 1/4 sucre a 7 s [sous] En argen
                     10 s[sous]
                  
                  
                     Doit M. Legras5
                     
                     Pelteris
                  
                  
                     1. pre Soulier aho6
                     
                     18 [livres]
                  
                  
                     1. pre Soulier a garcon
                     15
                  
                  
                     3. an [illegible] a 18
                     54
                  
                  
                     1. an 1/2 ditto a Bienvenir7
                     
                     27
                  
                  
                     1. plaque fusil qe Bienvenir
                     12 [livres]
                  
                  
                      
                     10 [sous]
                  
                  
                     M. hunault - pre Soulier a fe
                     15|
                  
                  
                     M. Serrat 1 pre ditto a ho
                     15
                  
                  
                     Millet Cardinal 2 pre ditto a garcon
                     30
                  
                  
                     Capne helm 1 pre Soulier a ho
                     18|
                  
                  
                     1 Canif8
                     
                     3
                  
                  
                     Capne William 1 pre Soulier a ho
                     18|
                  
                  
                     Mr Vaudry9 3 an [meant for aune] 18|
                     54|
                  
                  
                     Canady 1. Canif
                     3
                  
                  
                     Chorette 1. Canif
                     3
                  
               
                
            
               
                  1 The pages in the original Account Book have no numbers.
               
                  2 The date, March 9, indicates that this part of the Account Book deals
                        with the period immediately following the departure of the English when bills of various kinds
                        had been settled with the townspeople. The cargoes of the British boats captured by the
                        Americans, were also divided among the soldiers and Creoles and add d to the unusual prosperity.
                        The first fourteen pages of the Account Book evidently served as Bosseron's day book.
                        The records in the back of the book are tabulations copied from some notes. These are not
                        printed as a part of the Account Book.
               
                  3 Notice the name, fort henry Patrick. It is called fort Patrick in most of the accounts. Bosseron seldom, if ever, uses a capital
                            F or H in the book, even in writing his own name. It is
                        possible that he never learned to capitalize these letters.
               
                  4 The Lasselle family was prominent in early 
                            Vincennes
                        . Nicolas Lasselle was keeper of stores for 
                            Hamilton
                        . See list of 
                            Hamilton
                        's officers in History of the Northwest Territory,
                        1778-1783, and Life of George Rogers Clark, by W. H. English. Hyacinthe
                        Lasselle married Bosseron's daughter, Julia, and was the father of Charles Bosseron
                        Lasselle to whom we are indebted for the preservation of the Account Book. The abbreviation s
                        stands for sou, of which 20 made a livre; e.g.,
                        12| 10s = 12 livres and 10 sous.
               
               
                  5 J. M. P. Legras is frequently mentioned in histories of the period for
                        his services to Clark. He was appointed Military Commander of the fort and became one of the
                        first judges of the 
                            Illinois county
                         under Governor Todd.
            
            
            [Miss Shaw has been long interested in the services of Francis Bosseron to the American cause in the
                    West during the Revolutionary War. She has labored with the papers in the Lasselle collection in the
                    Indiana State Library for the past two years, and now presents the Account Book in the original
                    French and in translation, believing that all who are interested in the history of the Old Northwest
                    will gather from the document the importance of the aid extended to Clark by
                        Bosseron.—Editor]
            [TRANSLATION OF THE ACCOUNT BOOK OF FRANCIS BOSSERON]
            
                    [First page]
                    March 9 [1779] Fort Patrick Henry.
                    
                  
                     Debtor Mr. Lasselle—1/14 pounds of sugar at 7 sous in
                                silver
                     10 Sous
                     
                  
               
                    
                  
                     Debtor Mr. Legras—
                     Pelts
                  
                  
                     1 pr shoes for men
                     18 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     1 pr shoes for boys
                     15
                  
                  
                     3 ells [illegible] at 18 livres
                     
                     54 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     1 ½ ditto to Bienvenir
                     27
                  
                  
                     1 musket plate to Bienvenir
                     12 10
                  
                  
                     Mr. Hunault—1 pr shoes for women
                     15 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Mr. Serrat—1 pr ditto for men
                     15
                  
                  
                     Millet Cardinal—2 pr ditto for boys
                     30
                  
                  
                     Capt. Helm—1 pr shoes for men
                     18 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     1 pen knife
                     3
                  
                  
                     Capt. Williams—1 pr shoes for men
                     18 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Mr. Vaudry—3 ells [illegible] at 18 livres
                     
                     54 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Canady—1 pen knife
                     3
                  
                  
                     Chorette—1 pen knife
                     3
                  
               
                    
                  
                     1
                            Tougas Lainé may mean Tougas lanier, that is
                                Tougas, the wool-worker. The name Tougas is probably a surname. Joseph Tougas was named as a land owner in 1783. Bosseron occasionally
                            used the occupation as a part of a man'e name.
                  
                     6 1 pre Soulier aho, a homme, "1 pair of
                            men's shoes." See also below soulier a fe.
                            "women's shoes," and soulier a gracon,
                            "boy's shoes." These entries are confusing in the original Mss. as the abbreviations are little more than signs in
                            Bosseron's hurried script.
                  
                     7
                            An at the beginning of this line, is evidently the abbreviation for aune, the old French measure which corresponds to the English ell. The length is said to have varied in different localities, the 
                                Paris
                            
                            aune being 42.77 inches.
                  
                     8 The purchase of pocket knives by Captain Helm is amusingly frequent.
                            It is probable that he found them a convenient medium of exchange.
                  
                     9 The names of more than one hundred and fifty individuals, groups,
                            tribes of Indians, coureurs des bois, etc., are mentioned in the pages of
                            the Account Book. It is probable that Bosseron had also numerous "cash"
                            customers. It must be remembered, however, that the average pioneer household was almost
                            self-supporting and only luxuries and manufactured goods which were imported from 
                                Detroit
                            , were purchased.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     A S Selin 1 Canif
                     3
                  
                  
                     Beaudoine Jean L'Ours 1 pre Soulier a fe
                     12
                  
                  
                     3 Canif 3|
                     9
                  
                  
                     W Montgomerie [Crossed out in the Account Book] valade 1 Canif
                     3
                  
                  
                     Roy Volontaire—1 pr Soulier a ho
                     18
                  
                  
                     Mr Legrand 1 pr Soulier a garcon
                     15
                  
                  
                     M Drouard 1 chapeau
                     20
                  
                  
                     Vailette 1 chapeau fin
                     25
                  
                  
                     un chapeau
                     6
                  
                  
                     Doit Laselle 1 an 1/2 a 18|
                     27
                  
                  
                     3 an Cotton a 8|
                     24
                  
                  
                     Mr Chabert 3 an Cotton a 8|
                     24
                  
               
                    [Second page]
                    1779 fort Patrik Le Mars 1779
                    
                  
                      
                     Pelteris
                  
                  
                     Doit Le petit Peltier payé a la fleur
                     12-5
                  
                  
                     Doit Durbois fils 1 cuilliere a pot
                     6|
                  
                  
                     1 grand Bassin
                     9
                  
                  
                     Doit Tougas Lainé 1 chapeau
                     15|
                  
                  
                     1 chapeau a son frere Le jeune
                     15
                  
                  
                     Dt Laganiere par notre bon
                     6 pelteris
                  
                  
                     Doit Paulette gamelin 3 an Cotton a 8|
                     24|
                  
                  
                     — Ditto [9 Mars] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit M Drouard
                      
                  
                  
                     1/3 Drap
                     5|
                  
                  
                     2 an petite tavelle
                     10
                  
                  
                     Doit Bounaventure Dutremble
                     
                  
                  
                     1 grand Bassin
                     9|
                  
                  
                     Doit M Legras
                     En pelteris
                  
                  
                     6 Moulle a chandelle a 3|
                     18|
                  
                  
                     1 couliere ap eau
                     6|
                  
                  
                     Doit annaris Carabinei
                     pelteris
                  
                  
                     2 Livres de thais Boueé a 12
                     24|
                  
                  
                     10 petite Basin a 2|
                     20|
                  
                  
                      
                     Plts
                  
                  
                     Doit Roy Volontaire10 1 grand Bassin
                     9|
                  
                  
                     Doit Adhemar11 4 an 1/2 cotton [crossed out in the Account
                            Book]
                  
                  
                     Doit Mourés Bastonés
                     Argent
                  
                  
                     2 onche de thais Boueé12
                     
                     3|
                  
               
                    
                  
                     10 Bosseron designates the men who joined the British while they were
                            in 
                                Vincennes
                            , as "volunteers."
                  
                     11 Adhemar St. Martin was Bosseron's agent (or partner) in 
                                Detroit
                            , to whom he sent the furs he collected in 
                                Vincennes
                             and received in exchange the manufactured articles lifted in the Account Book.
                            There are several letters from St. Martin in the Lasselle collection giving in detail the
                            contents of the packages in certain consignments, the prices he paid for the articles in 
                                Detroit
                             and occasionally those paid in 
                                France
                            . Most of the items in the Account Book seem to have a standard price.
                  
                     12
                            thais Boueé—théBohea, Chinese tea.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     To S. Selin—1 pen knife
                     3
                  
                  
                     Beaudoine Jean L'Ours 1 pr shoes for women
                     12
                  
                  
                     3 pen knives at 3 livres
                     
                     9
                  
                  
                     Valade—1 pen knife
                     3
                  
                  
                     Roy-volunteer—1 pr shoes for men
                     18
                  
                  
                     Mr. Legrand—1 pr shoes for boys
                     15
                  
                  
                     Mr. Drouard—1 hat
                     20
                  
                  
                     Vailette—1 fine hat
                     25
                  
                  
                     1 hat
                     6
                  
                  
                     Debtor Lasselle 1/12 ells [illegible] at 18 livres
                     
                     27
                  
                  
                     3 ells of cotton at 8 livres
                     
                     24
                  
                  
                     Mr. Chabert—3 ells of cotton at 8 livres
                     
                     24
                  
               
                    [Second page]
                    1779 Fort Patrick March 9 1779
                    
                  
                      
                     Pelts
                  
                  
                     Debtor Little Peltier—paid to LaFleur
                     12 5
                  
                  
                     Debtor Durbois, Jr.,—1 jar ladle
                     6 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     1 large basin
                     9
                  
                  
                     Debtor Tougas Lainé1—1 hat
                     15 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     1 hat for his brother, The Younger
                     15
                  
                  
                     Debtor Laganiere, by our check
                     6 pelts
                  
                  
                     Debtor Paulette Gamelin—3 ells cotton at 8 livres.
                     24 livres
                     
                  
                  
                      
                     Ditto [March 9]
                  
                  
                     Debtor Mr. Drouard
                     
                  
                  
                     1/3 yard of cloth
                     5 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     2
                     ells of binding 10 sous
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Bonaventure Du Tremble
                     
                  
                  
                     1 large basin
                     9 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Mr. Legras
                     In pelts.
                  
                  
                     6 candle molds at 3 livres
                     
                     18 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     1 water filter
                     6 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Annaris, the carabinier
                     pelts
                  
                  
                     2 pounds of Chinese tea at 12 livres
                     
                     24 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     10 small basins or cups at 2 livres
                     
                     20 livres
                     
                  
                  
                      
                     Pelts
                  
                  
                     Debtor Roy, volunteer—1 large basin
                     9 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Moures [Morris] Bastones
                     Silver
                  
                  
                     2 ounces of Chinese tea
                     3 livres
                     
                  
               
                    
                    [Third page]
                    1779 fort Patrick Le 10 fevrier13
               
                    
                  
                      
                     Pelteris
                  
                  
                     Doit adhemar 5 lre sucre
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit Dolfin Volontaire 1 mouchoir
                     7|-10
                  
                  
                     3 an Cotton a 7|-10 s
                     22-10
                  
                  
                     1/2 an d'indienne
                     4|
                  
                  
                      
                     Pelteris
                  
                  
                     Doit Rous Volontaire 1 an 1/8 de drapt a 15
                     16| -5
                  
                  
                     — 11 e [Fevrier] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit Daunais Volontaire en argent
                     25
                  
                  
                     — Ditto [11 e Fevrier] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit Joseph Baron Volontaire
                     Pelteris
                  
                  
                     1 an 1/2 Drap fin a 15|
                     22| 10
                  
                  
                     1 an 1/2 Cotton a 7| 10
                     10| 10
                  
                  
                     3 Echevaux fit a 4 s
                     12
                  
                  
                     Doit adhemar Compté a hamelin
                     
                  
                  
                     La ganiere en argent14
                     
                     69| 15
                  
                  
                      
                     Pelteris
                  
                  
                     Doit Beaudouin Pavé a perrodat
                     13|
                  
                  
                     Avoir de chorette15 par son voyage
                     
                  
                  
                     qu Le Roy miamis
                     51 pelteris
                  
                  
                     Avoir de germain Clement pour
                     
                  
                  
                     son voyage au mis que Le Roy
                     91 pelteris
                  
                  
                     Doit pierre godere
                     pelteris
                  
                  
                     3 livres de plom a 30 s
                     4| 10
                  
                  
                     Doit le Capne La Cavallerie
                     
                  
                  
                     1 mouchoir 15| en argent
                     
                  
                  
                     Paye a Goudon 25 ditto
                     
                  
               
                    [Fourth page]
                    1779 fort Patrick Le 11 mars
                    
                  
                     Doit Ouvreuillet Michel
                     argent
                  
                  
                     1 Cappe Camelot fin16
                     
                     60|
                  
                  
                     1 sac avec La garniture
                     120
                  
                  
                     8 livres sucre a 4 s
                     32 s
                  
                  
                     — ditto [11 Mars] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit adhemar 5 verges de perss
                     
                  
                  
                     5 an 1/2 indienne a
                     
                  
                  
                     Avoir adhemar par Baulon17
                     
                     39| 15
                  
                  
                     Doit Legras En pelteris
                     
                  
                  
                     5 Livres de poudre a 5|18
                     
                     25
                  
                  
                     1 Rouleaux Ruban
                     18
                  
                  
                     1 carabine
                     120
                  
                  
                     — 12 [Mars] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Avoir d'adhemar par Masnard
                     25| 10
                  
               
                    
                  
                     13 This page of the Account Book is out of place, chronologically. It
                            belongs after the British account on the sixteenth page as the last date there is February
                            5th. Many of the items also concern the business transacted for the British army or with the
                            French volunteers. A list of these volunteers may be found in W. H. English. Conquest of the Northwest Territory, Appendix.
                  
                     14 This is a good sample of Bosseron's banking methods. Money
                            paid or received is recorded like other commodities.
                  
                     15
                            Chorette and Germain Clement are perhaps two of the coureurs des bois whose trips are charged against the British in the
                            account on the sixteenth page for January 28th.
               
                    
                    [Third page]
                    1779 Fort Patrick 10th of February
                    
                  
                      
                     Pelts
                  
                  
                     Debtor Adhemar—5 pounds of sugar
                      
                  
                  
                     Debtor Dolfin, volunteer—1 handkerchief
                     7 livres-10s
                     
                  
                  
                     3 ells of cotton at 7 livres—10s
                     
                     22 10
                  
                  
                     ½ ell of calico
                     4 livres
                     
                  
                  
                      
                     Pelts
                  
                  
                     Debtor Rous, volunteer 1 1/8 ells of cloth at 15 L
                     16 livres 5
                  
                  
                     — 11th [Feb.] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Daunais, volunteer in silver
                     25
                  
                  
                     — Ditto [Feb. 11] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Joseph Baron, volunteer
                      
                  
                  
                     1 ½ ells of fine cloth
                     22 livres-10
                  
                  
                     1 ½ ells of cotton at 7 livres—10s
                     
                     10 livres-10
                  
                  
                     3 skeins of yarn at 4 s
                     
                     12
                  
                  
                     Debtor Adhemar—account of Hamelin—
                      
                  
                  
                     [Paid to] Laganiere in silver
                     69 livres-15
                  
                  
                      
                     Pelts
                  
                  
                     Debtor Beaudoin—Paid to Perrodat
                     13 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Creditor to Chorette for his journey
                      
                  
                  
                     for the King to the Miamis
                     51 pelts
                  
                  
                     Creditor to Germain Clement for
                  
                  
                     his journey to the allies for the King
                     91 pelts
                  
                  
                     Debtor Pierre Godere pelts
                      
                  
                  
                     3 pounds of lead at 3 s
                     
                     4 livres-10
                  
                  
                     Debtor the Captain of the Cavalry
                      
                  
                  
                     1 handkerchief
                     15 livres in silver
                  
                  
                     Paid to Goudon
                     25 ditto
                  
               
                    [Fourth page]
                    1779 Fort Patrick 11th of March
                    
                  
                      
                     Silver
                  
                  
                     Debtor Ouvreuillet Michel
                      
                  
                  
                     1 fine chamois skin cap
                     60 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     1 embroidered coat
                     120
                  
                  
                     8 pounds of sugar at 4 s
                     
                     32-s
                     
                  
                  
                     — ditto [11th of March] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Adhemar—5 rods of dark blue cloth
                      
                  
                  
                     5 ½ ells of calico
                     
                  
                  
                     Creditor Adhemar by Baulon
                     39 livres-15
                  
                  
                     Debtor Legras in pelts
                      
                  
                  
                     5 pounds of powder at 5 livres
                     
                     25 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     1 piece of ribbon
                     18
                  
                  
                     1 rifle
                     120
                  
                  
                     — 12 [March] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Creditor Adhemar by Mesnard
                     25 10
                  
               
                    
                  
                     16 Notice the luxurious cap and embroidered coat.
                  
                     17
                            Nippolite Baulon was an Indian interpreter.
                  
                     18 The price which Bosseron charged for powder was low compared with
                            that in other places and was probably one reason that the possession of the western posts
                            was important to the 
                                United States
                            . He charges from 5 to 8 livres ($1 to $1.60) a pound.
                            Clark paid $2 a pound in 
                                Kaskaskia
                             (English, History of the Northwest Territory). Oliver Pollock
                            purchased ten thousand pounds for $18,000 in 
                                New Orleans
                             in April, 1776, for the use of the Colonial Army. See James, George Rogers Clark, p. 93.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Avoir de Charles guilbauht19
                     
                      
                  
                  
                     pour son voyage
                     100| en argent
                  
                  
                     Doit Charles Guilbauts par mon bon
                     15|
                  
                  
                     En argent
                      
                  
                  
                     Avoir de Joseph Dubé par pierre
                     21|
                  
                  
                     Ambleton en pelteris
                      
                  
                  
                     Doit Valé 1 an Cotton
                     8| pelteris
                  
                  
                     1/3 Drap fin
                     5
                  
                  
                     — 13 [Mars] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit Beaudouin volontaire
                     59 pelteris
                  
                  
                     Paye a M Ambleton
                      
                  
                  
                     Pour Euban
                     45 argent
                  
                  
                     — 14 [Mars] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit pierre goderre 1 lre plomb
                     30 s
                  
               
                    [Fifth page]
                    fort Patrick Le 14e mars
                    
                  
                     Avoir de Paul Gamelin20 par une lettre
                      
                  
                  
                     dechange du jour de hamilton
                     186| en argent
                  
                  
                     Avoir de M Lafoy pour reste de sa paye
                      
                  
                  
                     payé a M hay21
                     
                     120 En argent
                  
                  
                     Avoir de nicolas LaSelle pour reste
                      
                  
                  
                     sa paye payé a M hay
                     120| En argent
                  
                  
                     Avoir de Joseph andré pour une
                      
                  
                  
                     chaudiere que Le Roy
                     60 En argent
                  
                  
                     Avoir de Fr Bosseron
                      
                  
                  
                     pour vue par Le Congrés pour bois et Madrier
                     550
                  
                  
                     Chaudiere fournice a M hay
                     60 En argent
                  
                  
                     Par Le Congrés pour Lard
                     779| 10
                  
                  
                     — 14 [Mars] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit M Lafois
                     pelteris
                  
                  
                     1 an 1/2 de Cotton a 7| 10 s
                     11| 5s
                  
                  
                     — 14 [Mars] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit Mr Charlle Rehornew
                     pelteris
                  
                  
                     1 an 1/2 Cotton a 7| 10 s
                     11| 5s
                  
                  
                     — 14 [Mars] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit Bodoin
                     pelteris
                  
                  
                     paye a vodrille
                     54
                  
                  
                     — 14 [Mars] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit M Legras
                      
                  
                  
                     paye a Laselle
                     10| En argent
                  
                  
                     payé a fr Languedaux
                     109 argent
                  
                  
                     Doit Charles Languedaux
                     Pelteris
                  
                  
                     Reste Sur du Coton
                     2| 10
                  
               
                    
                  
                     19
                            Charles Gilbaut was evidently a coureur des bois. He was
                            a householder in 
                                Vincennes
                            .
                  
                     20
                            Paul Gamelin was one of the French volunteers in the British army. He
                            married Margueritte Drouet de Richeville, Bosseron's sister-in-law and ward.
                  
                     21 Major John Hay was the British officer second in rank to General 
                                Hamilton
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Creditor to Charles Gilbauht—
                      
                  
                  
                     for his journey
                     100 livres in silver
                  
                  
                     Debtor Charles Gilbauts—by my check
                     15
                  
                  
                     in silver
                     
                  
                  
                     Creditor to Joseph Dubé by Pierre
                     21
                  
                  
                     Ambleton in pelts
                      
                  
                  
                     Debtor Valé—1 ell of cotton
                     8 livres pelts
                  
                  
                     1/3 ell of fine cloth
                     5
                  
                  
                     — 13 [March] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Beaudoin—volunteer
                     59 pelts
                  
                  
                     Paid to Ambleton
                      
                  
                  
                     For ribbon
                     45 livres silver
                  
                  
                     — 14 [March] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Pierre Goderre—1 pound lead
                     30 s
                     
                  
               
                    [Fifth page]
                    Fort Patrick 14th of March
                    
                  
                     Creditor Paul Gamelin—by a letter
                      
                  
                  
                     of exchange on 
                                    Hamilton
                                
                     
                     186 livres in silver
                  
                  
                     Creditor Mr. Lafoy for the remainder of his salary
                      
                  
                  
                     paid to Mr. Hay
                     120 livres in silver
                  
                  
                     Creditor Nicolas Lasselle for the remainder of his
                      
                  
                  
                     salary paid to Mr. Hay
                     120 livres in silver
                  
                  
                     Creditor Joseph André to one
                      
                  
                  
                     boiler for the King
                     60 in silver
                  
                  
                     Creditor Francis Bosseron—
                      
                  
                  
                     For wood and joists ordered by Congress
                     550
                  
                  
                     Boiler furnished to Mr. Hay
                     60 in silver
                  
                  
                     By Congress—for bacon
                     779 livres 10
                  
                  
                     — 14 [March] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Mr. Lafois, pelts
                      
                  
                  
                     1/1/2 ells of cotton at 7 livres 10s
                     11 livres 5s
                     
                  
                  
                     — 14 [March] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Mr. Charles Rehornew pelts
                     
                  
                  
                     1 ½ ells of cotton at 7 livres 10
                     11 livres 5s
                     
                  
                  
                     — 14 [March] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Bodoin, pelts
                      
                  
                  
                     Paid to Vodrille Vaudry
                     54
                  
                  
                     — 14 [March] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Mr. Legras
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid to Lasselle
                     10 in silver
                  
                  
                     Paid to Fr Languedaux
                     109 silver
                  
                  
                     Debtor Charles Languedaux
                     pelts
                  
                  
                     Amount due on cotton
                     2 livres 10
                  
               
                    
                    [Sixth page]
                    1779 Doit Consinot22
               
                    mars 19
                    
                  
                     payé par Mon bon a M perot
                     76| 10s
                  
                  
                     En pelteris
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit Majord Boman23
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1 Renard
                     3| argent
                  
                  
                     Doit olivier pelletis24
                     
                      
                  
                  
                     une farramente dechario
                      
                  
                  
                     Completto
                     100|
                  
                  
                     Doit muris virginien
                      
                  
                  
                     2 an de Ruban
                     6|
                  
                  
                     1 Renard
                     3
                  
                  
                     Doit Canaday
                      
                  
                  
                     1 LaSelle chodiere
                     65|
                  
                  
                     1 Renard
                     3|
                  
                  
                     Avoir
                      
                  
                  
                     paye pour du rum
                     20|
                  
                  
                     Doit Laganiere, pelteris
                      
                  
                  
                     1 Livres depoudres
                     6|
                  
                  
                     — 20 [Mars] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit Durachés
                     pelteris
                  
                  
                     1 an 1/2 des equive a 12| 10s
                     18| 15
                  
                  
                     Doit Lardoize
                      
                  
                  
                     4 Livres de plom a 30 s
                     6|
                  
                  
                     Avoir de jh Lamoureau
                     Pelteris
                  
                  
                     par chartier
                     37
                  
               
                    [Seventh page]
                    
                  
                     Mars 20 Doit Petite peltier
                     Pelteris
                  
                  
                     1779
                      
                  
                  
                     Paye a Denoon
                      
                  
                  
                     pour Brülere25
                     
                     12| 10 s
                  
                  
                     — 20 [Mars] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit piere Blanchard, argent
                      
                  
                  
                     Reste sur du Coton
                     20|
                  
                  
                     Doit M fr Barois
                      
                  
                  
                     2 Livres de poudre
                      
                  
                  
                     6 liv deplom
                      
                  
                  
                     — 20 [Mars] —
                     
                  
                  
                     Avoir de M Lafaures
                      
                  
                  
                     en argent
                     60|
                  
                  
                     Dit
                     7|
                  
                  
                     Ditto par perette argent
                     15|
                  
                  
                     Doit gilbaun
                     pelteris
                  
                  
                     2 Liv de plom a 30s
                     3 [livres]
                  
                  
                     Doit M Ste Marit
                     pelteris
                  
                  
                     4 liv de plom a 30s
                     6
                  
                  
                     Avoir de M Ste Marit
                      
                  
                  
                     En pelteris
                     10| 10s
                  
               
                    
                  
                     22 This account apparently concerns the spring consignment of furs to 
                                Detroit
                            .
                  
                     23 "Majord Boman" probably refers to the American,
                            Major Bowman. He is not mentioned elsewhere in the Account. He probably needed a new cap and
                            purchased a fox pelt to make one.
                  
                     24
                            Olivér pelletis may mean Olivier, the furrier. The Account Book
                            contains names which may be explained in this way. Cf. Jean
                            L'Ours, John Bear, Tougas Lainé (Tougas, the
                            worker in wool). Possibly pelletis is intended to be pelteris.
                  
                  
                     25 It is not clear whether the word Brülere is the name of
                            a person or is intended for Brüloir, (a roaster,) or some other word.
               
                    
                    [Sixth page]
                    1779 Debtor Consignment
                    March 19
                    
                  
                     Paid by check to M Perot
                     76
                  
                  
                     in pelts
                      
                  
                  
                     Debtor Major [d] Bowman
                      
                  
                  
                     1 fox
                     3 livres silver
                  
                  
                     Debtor Oliver Pelletis
                      
                  
                  
                     1 set of iron work for cart—
                      
                  
                  
                     complete
                     100
                  
                  
                     Debtor Morris, Virginian
                      
                  
                  
                     2 ells ribbon
                     6 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     1 fox
                     3
                  
                  
                     Debtor Kennedy
                      
                  
                  
                     1 salt kettle
                     65 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     1 fox
                     3 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Creditor
                      
                  
                  
                     Paid for rum
                     20 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Laganiere
                     pelts
                  
                  
                     1 pound of powder
                     6 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     20 [March]
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Durachés
                     pelts
                  
                  
                     1 1/2 ells [illegible]
                     18 livres 15
                  
                  
                     Debtor Lardoize
                      
                  
                  
                     4 pounds of lead at 30s
                     
                     6 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Creditor Jh. Lamoureau
                     pelts
                  
                  
                     By Chartier
                     37 livres
                     
                  
               
                    [Seventh page]
                    
                  
                     March 20 Debtor Little Peltier
                     pelts
                  
                  
                     1779
                      
                  
                  
                     Paid to Denoon
                      
                  
                  
                     For a roaster
                     12 livres 10s
                  
                  
                     20 [March]
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Pierre Blanchard
                      
                  
                  
                     Amount due on cotton
                     20 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Mr. Fr. Barois
                      
                  
                  
                     2 pounds of powder
                      
                  
                  
                     6 pounds of lead
                      
                  
                  
                     20 [March]
                     
                  
                  
                     Creditor Mr. Lafaures
                      
                  
                  
                     In silver
                     60 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Ditto
                     7 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Ditto par Perett argent
                     15 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Gilbaun
                      
                  
                  
                     2 pounds of lead at 30s
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor M. Ste Marit [Marie]
                      
                  
                  
                     pelts
                     10 livres 10s
                  
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Doit Valcour
                     pelteris
                  
                  
                     2 Liv de plom a 30s
                     3"
                  
                  
                     Avoir de M chapeaux
                      
                  
                  
                     Par Barois En argent
                     35
                  
                  
                     Doit a Bte chartier pelteris
                      
                  
                  
                     1 Mouchoir Rouge
                     7" 10
                  
                  
                     Doit Bodoin
                     pelteris
                  
                  
                     4 Livres de plom payé
                      
                  
                  
                     a Belfin [?]
                     6
                  
               
                    [Eighth page]
                    
                  
                     1779 Doit piere Baron
                     En pelteris
                  
                  
                     Mars 1½ liv de plom a 30s
                     2" 5s
                  
                  
                     29
                      
                  
                  
                     Doit tousin godere
                      
                  
                  
                     Paye a mayott
                     5"
                  
                  
                     Doit Lafleure
                     pelteris
                  
                  
                     Paye a Mayott
                     30"
                  
                  
                     Doit Sergent Grine26 argent
                      
                  
                  
                     1 an 1/4 de Coton a
                     12" 10
                  
                  
                     1 an 1/4 de Coton a
                     15"
                  
                  
                     Doit Canaday7 argent
                      
                  
                  
                     100 Broquettes
                     2" 10s
                  
                  
                     Doit aselin
                     pelteris
                  
                  
                     10 an de bord—a 7s 6d [deniers]
                     3" 15s
                  
                  
                     Doit Bodoin En pelteris
                      
                  
                  
                     1 Couverte
                     12" 10s
                  
                  
                     1/2 de drapt
                     3"
                  
                  
                     3
                     an de Cotton a 8" 24"
                  
                  
                     3 an de Ruban
                     16"
                  
                  
                     Paye a M Daginett
                     3"
                  
                  
                     Paye a Marié pont [pour?] Rouvre
                     15"
                  
                  
                     Doit Michelle Neaun En pelteris
                      
                  
                  
                     1 plaque afusillo
                     12" 10s
                  
                  
                     Doit—Dielle En pelteris
                      
                  
                  
                     1 gros ahe28
                     
                     15
                  
                  
                     1 [illegible]
                     3
                  
               
                    [Ninth page]
                    
                  
                     Doit Durbois fils
                     pelteris
                  
                  
                     Avrille
                      
                  
                  
                     5
                      
                  
                  
                     1 gros ahe
                     15"
                  
                  
                     Doit Comparés
                     pel eris
                  
                  
                     1 grose ache
                     15"
                  
                  
                     6 an de Ruban a 3"
                     18"
                  
                  
                     Doit Louis garvais En pelteris
                      
                  
                  
                     1 paire de Soulier
                     12" 10s
                  
                  
                     Pour du Ruban
                     10" 10s
                  
                  
                     Doit Legrand Laviolette
                      
                  
                  
                     1/2 Livres de thais
                     3"
                  
               
                    
                  
                     26 Notice the spelling of Sergent Grine (Green).
                  
                     27 Canady is evidently phonetic spelling for Kennedy. Bosseron seldom
                            spells the name twice alike. Cf. pathrique Kanady, eleventh page Patrick
                            Kennedy was General Clark's quartermaster.
                  
                     28 The entry gros che appears several times with
                            various spellings. It is evidently phonetic spelling for gros hache, a big
                            hachet; i.e. an axe.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Debtor Valcour
                     pelts
                  
                  
                     2 pounds of lead at 30s
                     
                     3 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Creditor Mr. Chapeaux
                      
                  
                  
                     By Barois in silver
                     35 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Bte Chartier
                      
                  
                  
                     1 silk handkerchief
                     7 livres 10
                  
                  
                     Debtor Bodoin
                     pelts
                  
                  
                     4 pounds of lead paid to Belfin [?]
                     6
                  
               
                    [Eighth page]
                    
                  
                     1779 Debtor Pierre Baron
                     In pelts
                  
                  
                     March 11/2 pounds of lead at 30s
                     2 livres 5s
                  
                  
                     29
                      
                  
                  
                     Debtor Toussaint Godere
                      
                  
                  
                     Paid to Mayott
                     5 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Lafleure
                     pelts
                  
                  
                     Paid to Mayott
                     30 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Sergeant Green silver
                      
                  
                  
                     1 1/4 ells of cotton
                     12 livres 10
                  
                  
                     1 1/4 ells of cotton at
                     15 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Kennedy
                     silver
                  
                  
                     100 tacks
                     2 livres 5s
                  
                  
                     Debtor Seline
                     pelts
                  
                  
                     10 ells of binding at 7 s 6 deniers [12d=l sous]
                     3 livres 15s
                  
                  
                     Debtor Bodoin
                     in pelts
                  
                  
                     1 table cloth
                     12 livres 10s
                  
                  
                     1/2 ell of cloth
                     3 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     3 ells of cotton at 8 livres
                     
                     24 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     3 ells of ribbon
                     16 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid to M Daginett
                     3 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid to Marie for Rouvre
                     15 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Michelle Neaun
                     in pelts
                  
                  
                     1 rifle plate
                     15
                  
                  
                     Debtor Dielle
                     
                  
                  
                     1 axe
                     12 livres 10
                  
                  
                     1 [illegible]
                     3
                  
               
                    [Ninth page]
                    April 5
                    
                  
                     Debtor Durbois, Jr.
                     pelts
                  
                  
                     1 axe
                     15 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Compares
                     pelts
                  
                  
                     1 axe
                     15 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     6 ells of ribbon at 3 livres
                     
                     18 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Louis Garvais
                     in pelts
                  
                  
                     1 pair of shoes
                     12 livres 10s
                  
                  
                     For ribbon
                     10 livres 10s
                  
                  
                     Debtor Legrand Laviolette
                      
                  
                  
                     1/2 pound of tea
                     3 livres
                     
                  
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Doit fr Bosseron
                     
                  
                  
                     Payé a M Legras argent
                     720"
                  
                  
                     Doit M St obin dejanot pelteris
                      
                  
                  
                     1 Douzen d'asiett de tin
                     24"
                  
                  
                     Doit Louis Laderoute
                     
                  
                  
                     Payé a M Courniere En argent
                     30"
                  
                  
                     fr Bosseron, Doit
                      
                  
                  
                     1 ache
                      
                  
                  
                     1 littr Ronde [Vonde?]
                      
                  
                  
                     Doit j Bte Donnais volontere
                     argent
                  
                  
                     Pour Ruban
                     36" 5
                  
                  
                     Doit francois Bosseron
                      
                  
                  
                     Payé a M Legras argent ameriguenne
                     946"
                  
               
                    [Tenth page]
                    Avril 18
                    1779
                    
                  
                     Doit M Doroure J Bte Maloriv pelteris
                      
                  
                  
                     6 an 1/2 Ruban a 3"
                     19" 10s
                  
                  
                     3 an de Ruban Large a 3" 15 s
                     11" 5
                  
                  
                      
                     30" 15
                  
                  
                     22 [Avril]
                      
                  
                  
                     Doit charlle guilbeaux argent
                      
                  
                  
                     payé a fr ste piere
                     40"
                  
                  
                     Doit Bodioin argent
                      
                  
                  
                     derrier Compt
                      
                  
                  
                     31/2 % an de Ruban Largue a 7" 10s
                     45"29
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit M St Maritt
                     pelteris
                  
                  
                     Paye a Bte A Vilmartte
                     10"
                  
                  
                     23 [Avril]
                      
                  
                  
                     Doit Lanfans volontaire argent
                      
                  
                  
                     Pour Ruban Reste
                     30"
                  
                  
                     21 [Avril]
                  
                  
                     Doit olivieé En pelteris
                      
                  
                  
                     1 milliere Broquettes
                     12" 10
                  
                  
                     30 [Avril]
                      
                  
                  
                     Doit M Kanaday argent
                      
                  
                  
                     payé a Borthiomis
                     15"
                  
                  
                     payé a Mons tararouge
                     8"
                  
                  
                     Mais
                      
                  
                  
                     2
                      
                  
                  
                     Doit Lamoureuse pelteris
                      
                  
                  
                     pour Ruban fin
                     7" 10
                  
                  
                     Mais
                      
                  
                  
                     2
                      
                  
                  
                     Doit andrés Roy pelteris
                      
                  
                  
                     un fermand de charue
                     100"
                  
               
                    [Eleventh page]
                    
                  
                     1779
                     Doit M Ste Sire
                      
                  
                  
                     Mais 4
                     2 Couverte fine 21/2 % pt a 25"
                     50"
                  
                  
                     
                     5 an 1/4 de drapt a 20"
                     105"
                  
                  
                     
                     2 moulle a chandelle a 5"
                     10"
                  
                  
                     
                     26 Livres de vermilion a 15"
                     390"
                  
                  
                     
                     Avoir 111 piastres a 5"
                     555"
                  
               
                    
                  
                     2931/2 ells of ribbon at 7 livres 10s would amount
                            to 26 livres 5s. Therefore the former account must have been 18 livres 15
                                sous.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Debtor Francis Bosseron
                      
                  
                  
                     Paid to M Legras silver
                     720 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Mr. Stobin Dejanot
                     pelts
                  
                  
                     1 dozen wooden dishes
                     24 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Louis Laderoute
                      
                  
                  
                     Paid to M Courniere in silver
                     30 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Francis Bosseron, Debtor
                      
                  
                  
                     1 ax
                      
                  
                  
                     1 liter of sweet wine [?]
                      
                  
                  
                     Debtor J Bte Donnais, volunteer
                     silver
                  
                  
                     For ribbon
                     36 livres 5
                  
                  
                     Debtor Francis Bosseron
                      
                  
                  
                     Paid to Mr. Legras—American silver
                     946 livres
                     
                  
               
                    [Tenth page]
                    April 18
                    1779
                    
                  
                     Debtor Mr. Doroure J. Bte Maloriv pelts
                     
                  
                  
                     6 1/2 ells of ribbon at 3 livres
                     
                     19 livres 10s
                  
                  
                     3 ells of broad ribbon at 3 livres 15s
                     11 livres 10s
                  
                  
                     
                     30 livres 15s
                  
                  
                     22 [April]
                      
                  
                  
                     Debtor Charles Guilbeaux
                     silver
                  
                  
                     Paid to Fr Ste Pierre
                     40 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Bebtor Bodoine
                     silver
                  
                  
                     Former account
                      
                  
                  
                     3 1/2 ells of broad ribbon at 7" 10s
                     45 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor M St Marie
                     pelts
                  
                  
                     Paid to Bte A Vilmartte
                     10 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     23 [April]
                      
                  
                  
                     Debtor Lanfans, volunteer silver
                     
                  
                  
                     For amount due on ribbon
                     30 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     29 [April]
                      
                  
                  
                     Debtor Oliviee in pelts
                     
                  
                  
                     1 thousand tacks
                     12 livres 10
                  
                  
                     30 [April]
                  
                  
                     Debtor M Kennedy silver
                      
                  
                  
                     Paid to Berthiomis
                     15 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid to Mons Tararouge
                     8
                  
                  
                     May
                      
                  
                  
                     2
                      
                  
                  
                     Debtor Lamoureuse pelts
                     
                  
                  
                     For fine ribbon
                     7 livres 10
                  
                  
                     May
                      
                  
                  
                     2
                      
                  
                  
                     Debtor Andres Roy pelts
                     
                  
                  
                     1 set iron work for a cart
                     100 livres
                     
                  
               
                    [Eleventh page]
                    
                  
                     1779
                     Debtor Mr. Ste. Sire
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     2 fine table cloths—21/2 pt—at 25 livres
                     
                     50 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     5 1/4 ells of cloth at 20 livres
                     
                     105 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     2 candle molds at 5 livres
                     
                     10 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     26 pounds of vermilion at 15 livres
                     
                     390 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Creditor 111 piastres at 5 livres
                     
                     555
                  
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Juliett
                      
                  
                  
                     10
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit peltiere pelteris
                      
                  
                  
                     payé argent achevalle
                     40"
                  
                  
                     13 [Juillet]
                      
                  
                  
                     Doit Michelle Brouilliett pelteris
                     
                  
                  
                     1 fusill fine
                     50"
                  
                  
                     Doit Baringon pelteris
                     
                  
                  
                     1 piece de toile Eusy
                     150"
                  
                  
                     avoir de Baargon pelteris
                     
                  
                  
                     1 paiece de Beufa
                     350"
                  
                  
                     1 tord de quarter an
                     100"
                  
                  
                     29 [Juillet]
                      
                  
                  
                     Doit jh chabott pelteris
                      
                  
                  
                     300 Broquettes a 40 s
                     6"
                  
                  
                     30 [Juillet]
                  
                  
                     Doit pathrique Kanaday pelteris
                      
                  
                  
                     payé a ste antoinne
                     49"
                  
                  
                     payé a Chartier
                     5"
                  
               
                    [Twelfth page]
                    
                  
                     Doit francois Brouliet
                     pelteris
                  
                  
                     pour etchange d'un juman
                     49"
                  
                  
                     12 Livres de Beuf a 10 s
                     6"
                  
                  
                     Doit Boudoin payé a jan hourch
                      
                  
                  
                     payé an argent
                     180"
                  
                  
                     payé a Roge
                     4
                  
                  
                     payé a M Dagenet
                     32
                  
                  
                     avoir de Lamoureus pelteris
                     
                  
                  
                     par Dagnaron
                     27
                  
                  
                     Doit adhemar
                     
                  
                  
                     3 paire de bas de Sois30
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     avoir de fr Bosseron
                     argent
                  
                  
                     6 Beuff fournie au Congréa a 400"
                     2400
                  
                  
                     2 vache ditto a 400"
                     800
                  
                  
                     200 Livres de tabac a 6"
                     1200
                  
                  
                     par chanonne [one word illegible] et dues31
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     homme pour pansion
                     1000
                  
                  
                     Doit M Legras in pelteris
                      
                  
                  
                     payé 1 vache
                     150
                  
                  
                     Doit francois Bosseron pelteris
                     
                  
                  
                     payé a Manan
                     140"
                  
               
                    [Thirteenth page]
                    
                  
                     avoir de fr Latour
                      
                  
                  
                     par luis 116 Livres de peau Rase
                     116"
                  
                  
                     par vieu pour luis
                     115"
                  
                  
                     avoir de dugalle
                      
                  
                  
                     143 Livres depeau Rase
                     143"
                  
                  
                     Doit Bodoin a fr Bosseron Seulle
                      
                  
                  
                     1 paire de Coulott de toille82
                     
                      
                  
                  
                     1 paire de Coulott de Cuivre
                      
                  
                  
                     1 couverte
                     
                  
                  
                     payé pour Son Capeaux
                     
                  
                  
                     Doit fr Bosseron
                      
                  
                  
                     En pelteris payé a Daginett
                     52"
                  
               
                    
                  
                     30
                            paire de has de sole, 3 pairs of silk stockings. This is the only example
                            of the use of such a luxury.
                  
                     31
                            
                        
                                    Par
                                 Channone, etc. This line is entirely vague in meaning.
                  
                     321
                            paire de coulott is evidently phonetic spelling for 1 paire
                                de evlotte.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  
                     July
                      
                  
                  
                     10
                      
                  
                  
                     Debtor Peltiere pelts
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid silver to Chevalle
                     40 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     13 [July]
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Brouilliett pelts
                     
                  
                  
                     1 fine shot gun
                     50 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Baringon pelts
                     
                  
                  
                     1 piece of Russian cloth
                     150 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Creditor Baargon pelts
                     
                  
                  
                     1 piece of beef
                     350 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     1 quarter of a heifer
                     100
                  
                  
                     29 [July]
                      
                  
                  
                     Debtor J. Chabott pelts
                     
                  
                  
                     300 tacks at 40s [per hundred]
                     6 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     30 [July]
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Patrick Kennedy
                      
                  
                  
                     Paid to Ste Antoinne
                     49 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid to Chartier
                     5 livres
                     
                  
               
                    [Twelfth page]
                    
                  
                     Debtor Francis Brouiliet
                     pelts
                  
                  
                     For exchanging a mare
                     49 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     12 pounds of beef at 10s
                     6 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Boudoin—Paid to Jan Hourch [?]
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid in silver
                     180 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid to Rogé
                     4
                  
                  
                     Paid to M Dagenet
                     32
                  
                  
                     Creditor Lamoureus pelts
                     
                  
                  
                     By Dagnaron
                     27
                  
                  
                     Debtor Adhemar
                     
                  
                  
                     3 pairs of silk stockings
                      
                  
                  
                     Creditor—Francis Bosseron silver
                     
                  
                  
                     6 beeves furnished to Congress at 400 livres
                     
                     2400
                  
                  
                     2 cows ditto at 400 livres
                     
                     800
                  
                  
                     200 pounds of tobacco at 6 livres
                     
                     1200
                  
                  
                     By Shannon for [illegible] and housing of
                      
                  
                  
                     the men (?)
                     1000
                  
                  
                     Debtor Mr. Legras in pelts
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid for 1 cow
                     150
                  
                  
                     Debtor Francis Bosseron pelts
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid to Manan [Magnian?]
                     140 livres
                     
                  
               
                    [Thirteenth page]
                    
                  
                     Creditor Fr. Latour
                     
                  
                  
                     By himself 116 pounds of shaved skins
                     116 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     By Vieu [Viau?] for him
                     115 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Creditor Dugalle
                     
                  
                  
                     143 pounds of shaved skins
                     143 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Bodoin to Francis Bosseron himself
                     
                  
                  
                     1 pair of cloth breeches
                      
                  
                  
                     1 pair of copper-colored breeches
                      
                  
                  
                     1 table cloth
                      
                  
                  
                     Paid for his hat
                      
                  
                  
                     Debtor Francis Bosseron
                      
                  
                  
                     In pelts, paid to Daginett
                     52 livres
                     
                  
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Avoir de fr Bosseron En pelteris
                     
                  
                  
                     Par Latoure pour fr Bosseron
                     600"
                  
                  
                     Doit fr Bosseron pelteris
                     
                  
                  
                     payé a Lardoize
                     188"
                  
                  
                     Avoir du Carabinieé Knary
                      
                  
                  
                     En pelteris
                     10"
                  
                  
                     Doit Bte Chartier pelteris
                     
                  
                  
                     9 1/4 de fere a 40 s
                     18" 10
                  
               
                    [Fourteenth page]
                    
                  
                     Doit Baargon payé a M
                      
                  
                  
                     Lagenes En pelteris
                     50"
                  
                  
                     payé a joph Dajenett
                     31"
                  
                  
                     avoir de francois Bosseron
                      
                  
                  
                     Payé a Baargon En pelteris
                     31"
                  
                  
                     Payé a Mr Legras pour une
                      
                  
                  
                     piece de toille Rusy que La Sosiete33
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Luis devais34
                     
                     250"
                  
                  
                     paye a dite ferante parson pour La Somme
                     
                  
                  
                     de Deux mille Sept Cent quatre vingt Livres
                     
                  
                  
                     En pelteris que La Soisiete devais
                     2780"
                  
                  
                     Paye a lettire [?] Cageron une piece va Rusy
                     250"
                  
                  
                     Paye aperette six Cenquarante
                     
                  
                  
                     Livres Dis Solle Enpeaun Raze35
                     
                     640" 10
                  
                  
                     payé a Lamirande pour
                      
                  
                  
                     une piece de toille de Rusy
                     300"
                  
                  
                     Payé a Mr Louis Malette pour une
                      
                  
                  
                     piece detoil Rusy36"
                     300"
                  
                  
                     Payé a charlle Lachine une
                      
                  
                  
                     piece detoil Rusy
                     300"
                  
                  
                     Doit fr Bosseron par
                      
                  
                  
                     pana
                     21"
                  
                  
                     Par mixie
                     50
                  
                  
                     Avoir par fr Bosseron
                     50
                  
                  
                     payé a fr chevodier
                     50
                  
                  
                     avoir de fr Bosseron
                      
                  
                  
                     Paid to Lachine
                     in pelts 19" 5
                  
                  
                     payé Do
                     2" 10
                  
               
                    
                  
                     33
                            La Sosiete, the society, or company, is frequently found in the business
                            letters in the Lasselle collection. There was evidently some kind of a partnership, or
                            business agreement, existing among the fur traders in various posts and their agents in 
                                Detroit
                            .
                  
                     34
                            
                        
                                    Pay
                                é a dite fernate parson is evidently phonetic. The writing
                            is not clear. It may mean, "paid to different persons."
                  
                     35 Shaved skins, or tanned leather, had a standard value as a medium
                            of exchange.
                  
                     36 There is a receipt in the Indiana State Library signed by Louis
                            Nalette which may be the one recorded here, but the lack of a date for this en ry makes
                            identification impossible. This is true in regard to several entries. Toile d
                                Ruay, Russian cloth, seems to have been much used but no description of it has been
                            found.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Creditor Francis Bosseron in pelts
                     
                  
                  
                     By Latoure for Francis Bosseron
                     600 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Francis Bosseron pelts
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid to Lardoize
                     188 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Creditor the Carabinier, Knary
                     
                  
                  
                     In pelts
                     10 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Bte. Chartier
                     
                  
                  
                     9% pounds of iron [arrow heads?] at 40s
                     18 livres 10
                  
               
                    [Fourteenth page]
                    
                  
                     Debtor Baargon, Paid to
                     
                  
                  
                     Mr. Lagenes
                     in pelts 50 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid to Joph. Dajenett
                     31 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Creditor Francis Bosseron
                      
                  
                  
                     Paid to Baargon in pelts
                     31 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid to M Legras for one piece of Russian cloth
                      
                  
                  
                     which the Company owes him
                     250 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid to different people the sum of two thousand,
                      
                  
                  
                     seven hundred eighty livres, in pelts, which
                     
                  
                  
                     the company, owes
                     2780 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid to Lettire Cageron one piece of Russian cloth
                     250 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid to Perette, six hundred and forty livres, ten sols,
                      
                  
                  
                     in shaved skins
                     640 livres 10
                  
                  
                     Paid to Lamirande for one
                      
                  
                  
                     piece Russian cloth
                     300 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid to Mr. Louis Malette for one
                      
                  
                  
                     piece Russian cloth
                     300 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Paid to Charles Lachine, one
                      
                  
                  
                     piece Russian cloth
                     300 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Debtor Francis Bosseron to
                      
                  
                  
                     Mr. Pana
                     21 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     By miscellaneous sums
                     50
                  
                  
                     Creditor Francis Bosseron
                     50
                  
                  
                     Paid to Chevodier
                     50
                  
                  
                     Creditor Francis Bosseron
                      
                  
                  
                     Paid to Lachine in pelts
                     19 livres 5
                  
                  
                     Paid to do
                     2 livres 10
                  
               
                    
                    [MEMORANDUM OF BILLS OF EXCHANGE OWED TO BOSSERON]
                    [Fifteenth page]
                    Memoire Des Laitre deschange que37
               
                    janporte Le Compt Da diemarkt Conpagne a ste vincenne a 21 janviere
                    1782 pour Les Relgles avec Le generalle Clarche38
               
                    un Compte par un Rien Canday adatté
                    du 27 8ter aux jlinois 1780
                    de La Somme de Six Mille Cincen neufe Livres En argent
                    Surlesquelle CinCendix Livres pour mois
                    une Laitre deschange No 161 de
                    Laquantite de 2863 2-5 de piastres
                    a Date 18 Sept 1779 Signé Wm Shannon
                    une autre No 155 de 3803 4-5 piastres Shannon andatté
                    12 Aous 1779
                    une autre No 153 de 400 piastres andatte Aous 12 1779
                    une autre No 166 andate 8ter 10th 1779
                    Aux mon du Capt helm—1500 piastres signé Shannon
                    Une aur faite aux 
                            Illinois
                         par le Capt
                    helm andatte 9bre 19 me 1779 de 1067 piastre
                    Surle trezuore de Lavirgini Signé helm
                    d'ou andose parluis39
               
                    [BRITISH ACCOUNT]
                    [Sixteenth page]
                    Levées pour Le Compt de Sa Mageste40
               
                    Janviere
                    28
                    
                  
                     5 voyages que poste Les vivres dabord ce [illegible]
                     [?]40
                     
                  
                  
                     2 vouage de Bois pourr Lessivé blés41
                     
                     [?]
                  
                  
                     2 Boutaill vinde 3"
                     [6"]
                  
                  
                     3 Baritte42 pour maiter Lagres a 13"
                     [39"]
                  
                  
                     5 pouche a 6"
                     [30"]
                  
                  
                     30 [Janvier]
                      
                  
                  
                     2 Baritte pour Ledepartemans
                      
                  
                  
                     de Capt McClomb a 12
                     [24?]
                  
                  
                     Fev 1
                      
                  
                  
                     27 minot 1/2 de mahis
                      
                  
                  
                     payé a deuvior a 6
                     [?]
                  
                  
                     1 champlure a LaSelle
                     7" 10
                  
                  
                     5 [Fevrier]
                      
                  
                  
                     16 Minot43 Mahis44 a [illegible]
                     12" 10 pelteris
                  
                  
                     paye a LaCroix
                     64" 10 en argent
                  
                  
                     pour LeBouche
                     90" En argent
                  
                  
                     pour facon des Bles Lessivé
                     160 En argent
                  
               
                    
                  
                     37 This memorandum lists sis of the letters of exchange owed to Mayor
                            Bosseron In January, 1782. Evidently incomplete as the total amount due on these vouchers is
                            $10,936, less than half of the five thousand twenty-four pounds, ten shillings,
                            six pence, allowed to him by the 
                                Virginia
                             commissioners. See record copied in sketch of Bosseron's life, above.
                  
                     38 It is evident that the spelling is worse than usual on this page of
                            the Account Book. It is easier to make sense if the sound of the words is considered rather
                            than the written form. The penmanship is also difficult to read and perhaps indicates the
                            mental worry of Bosseron.
                  
                     39 This entry seems to be the "certified account numbered
                            5" which was returned to Bosseron by the 
                                Virginia
                             commissioners in 1783. See record copied in sketch of Boss-eron's
                            life, above. It is also almost certainly the account for the supplies provided Captain Helm
                            for the garrison in the fall of 1778.
               
                    
                    [MEMORANDUM OF BILLS OF EXCHANGE OWED TO BOSSERON]
                    [Fifteenth page]
                    Memorandum of Letters of Exchange which concern the disbanded company at St 
                            Vincennes
                        , to January, 1782, for the settlement with General Clark.
                    An account by one Rien Canday, dated the 27th of October, 1780 in 
                            Illinois
                        , for the sum of six thousand five hundred nine livres, of which the sum of five
                        hundred ten livres are for me.
                    A bill of exchange, No. 161, for the sum of 2863 2/5 piastres, dated the 18th
                        of September, 1779, signed Wm Shannon.
                    Another, No. 155, for 3803 4/5 piastres, [signed by Shannon] dated the 12th of
                        August, 1779.
                    Another, No 153, for 400 piastres, dated August 12, 1779.
                    Another, No 166, dated October 10th, 1779, to M Capt Helm, 1500 piastres,
                        signed [by] Shannon.
                    Another made in 
                            Illinois
                         by Capt Helm, dated November 19th, 1779, for 1067 piastres upon
                        the Treasury of 
                            Virginia
                        , signed [by] Helm and endorsed by him.
                    [BRITISH ACCOUNT]
                    [Sixteenth page]
                    Items for the account of His Majesty
                    January
                    28
                    
                  
                     5 trips to carry provisions on board (or to land?)
                     [?]
                  
                  
                     2 journeys through the woods for corn treated with
                     [?]
                  
                  
                     lye [Hominy]
                      
                  
                  
                     2 bottles of sweet wine at 3 livres
                     
                     [6 livres]
                  
                  
                     3 berets for Maitre Lagres at 13 livres
                     
                     [39 livres]
                  
                  
                     5 pouches at 6 livres
                     
                     [30 livres]
                  
                  
                     30 [January]
                      
                  
                  
                     2 berets for the department of Captain Maclomb at
                      
                  
                  
                     12
                     [24]
                  
                  
                     February 1
                      
                  
                  
                     27 1/2 pecks of maize [Indian corn]
                      
                  
                  
                     paid to Deuvior at 6
                     [?]
                  
                  
                     1 [Champlure?] tap hole to Lasselle
                     7 livres 10
                  
                  
                     5 [February]
                      
                  
                  
                     16 pecks of maize
                     12 livres 10 in pelts
                  
                  
                     Paid to Lacroix
                     64 livres 10 silver
                  
                  
                     For Lebouche
                     90 livres In silver
                  
                  
                     For preparing corn with lye
                     160 in silver
                  
               
                    
                  
                     40 This account is evidently incomplete as General 
                                Hamilton
                             had held the fort for six weeks before the first entry. The right margin of the
                            page is badly worn and most of the amounts charged are lacking. See the third page of the
                            Account Book for other British accounts.
                  
                     41
                            Lessivé blés, corn treated with lye; i.e., hominy.
                  
                     42 The spelling Baritte makes possible three
                            meanings; barett, a smaller 
                                Barr
                            
                            barrette, a flat cap; barillet, a small barrel. The
                            second meaning seems best.
                  
                     43 The minot was the old measure of 39 litres, also
                            a large quantity, a peek.
                  
                     44
                            Mahis = mais or maize [Indian corn].
               
                    
                    
                  
                     paye a M huberdeau 140" (?) En argent
                     [140"]
                  
                  
                     4 L Clouex que Le Detachement des mis
                     [?]
                  
                  
                     8 L poudre que Le Detachement des mis
                     [?]
                  
                  
                     300" en argent par Baulon
                     [300"]
                  
                  
                     3 pirogues45 a 160
                     [480"]
                  
                  
                     pour magazinage
                     [?]
                  
               
                    [PERSONAL ACCOUNT OF CAPTAIN HELM]
                    [Seventeenth page]
                    Doit Mr le Captne helm46
               
                    1778
                    
                  
                     8bre 20
                     1 chapeau
                     50"
                  
                  
                      
                     1 jeu de Carte
                     3
                  
                  
                      
                     7 an 1/2 rubane fin a 4" 10
                     33" 5
                  
                  
                     [Octobre] 5
                     3 Bouteilles taffias a 10
                     30
                  
                  
                      
                     1 an flanelle
                     5
                  
                  
                     [Octobre] 10
                     4 an 1/4 toille fine a 10
                     42" 10
                  
                  
                      
                     1 an toille de russy
                     10
                  
                  
                     [Octobre] 13
                     a luy prette pour Jean L'ours47"
                     79
                  
                  
                      
                     ditto pour M huberdeau
                     25
                  
                  
                     [Octobre] 16
                     4 mouchoirs par Kennedy
                     17" 10
                  
                  
                     [Octobre] 17
                     1 pot taffias que ditto
                     20
                  
                  
                     
                     1 Bouteille ditto
                     10
                  
                  
                     [Octobre] 24
                     Payé a James
                     80
                  
                  
                     9bre 1
                     1 Capotte
                     95
                  
                  
                     
                     1 canif
                     3
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 28
                     Payé a huberdeau 1 pot et chopine48
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     franche Eau ds vie 25
                     31" 5
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 29
                     2 mouchoirs a 10"
                     20
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 30
                     1 Bouteille Taffias
                     10
                  
                  
                     
                     1 habillement pour
                     150
                  
                  
                     
                     payé a James
                      
                  
                  
                     
                     par Compte chez Brouillet euartre 
                     Bouteilles taffias a 20" pot 40
                  
                  
                     
                     par ses Bons 5 pots taffias a 20"
                     100
                  
                  
                      
                     En differents fois chez Brouillet
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     3 pots taffias a 20
                     60
                  
                  
                     Dbre 26
                     3 pots taffias chez Brouillet a 20
                     60
                  
                  
                     
                     payé a Renaux
                     20
                  
                  
                     
                     1 potte pour Les Sauvages
                     20
                  
                  
                     
                     paye Crepeaux
                     10
                  
               
                    [Eighteenth page]
                    
                  
                     Suitte de l'autre part
                     
                     
                  
                  
                      
                     payé a Mr Dajenette
                     13" 10
                  
                  
                      
                     3 pot de Tafias
                     60
                  
                  
                     1779
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Mars 28
                     Payé pour Sapart d'une Bte de Tafias
                     20
                  
               
                    
                  
                     45 It is interesting to note the occupations of the British on
                            February 5, the day that General Clark set out for 
                                Vincennes
                            . The three pirogues were probably purchased for the purpose of searching for
                            the lost ships with supplies which the British expected.
                  
                     46 This is the personal account of Captain Helm. It is not included in
                            that sent to General Clark for the expenses of the garrison.
                  
                     47 The name of Jean L'Ours is spelled in
                            many ways. He is also known as Dominique Bergante in some of the legal
                            papers in the Indiana State Library.
                  
                     48
                            L pot et chopine = about two quarts and a pint. Old French
                            Measures.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Paid to Mr. Huberdeau 140 livres [?]
                     [140 livres]
                  
                  
                     4 pounds of nails for the company of Indian allies
                     [?]
                  
                  
                     8 pounds of powder for the company of Indian allies
                     [?]
                  
                  
                     300 livres in silver by Baulon
                     [300 livres]
                  
                  
                     3 pirogues at 160
                     [480 livres]
                  
                  
                     For storage
                     [?]
                  
               
                    [PERSONAL ACCOUNT OP CAPTAIN HELM]
                    [Seventeenth page]
                    To Captain Helm, Dr.
                    1778
                    
                  
                     Oct. 20
                     1 hat
                     50 livres
                     
                  
                  
                      
                     1 pack of cards
                     3
                  
                  
                      
                     7 1/2 ells of fine ribbon at 4 10s
                     33 livres 5
                  
                  
                     [Oct.] 5
                     3 bottles of taffias rum at 10
                     30
                  
                  
                      
                     1 ell of flannel
                     5
                  
                  
                     [Oct.] 10
                     4 1/2 ells of fine muslin at 10
                     42 livres
                     
                  
                  
                      
                     1 ell of Russian cloth
                     10
                  
                  
                     [Oct.] 13
                     Lent to him for Jean L'Ours
                     79
                  
                  
                      
                     Ditto for M Huberdeau
                     25
                  
                  
                     [Oct.] 16
                     4 handkerchiefs by Kennedy
                     17 10
                  
                  
                     [Oct.] 17
                     1 jug of taffias by ditto
                     20
                  
                  
                      
                     1 bottle ditto
                     10
                  
                  
                     [Oct.] 24
                     Paid to James
                     80
                  
                  
                     November 1
                     1 overcoat
                     95
                  
                  
                      
                     1 penknife
                     3
                  
                  
                     Nov. 28
                     Paid to Huberdeau
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     1 jug and a chopine of pure brandy at 25
                     31 5
                  
                  
                     Nov. 29
                     2 handkerchiefs at 10
                     20
                  
                  
                     Nov. 30
                     1 bottle taffias
                     10
                  
                  
                      
                     1 suit for
                     150
                  
                  
                      
                     Paid to James
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     By account with Brouillet
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     4 bottles taffias at 20 per jug
                     40
                  
                  
                      
                     By check—5 jugs taffias at 20
                     100
                  
                  
                     At different times with Brouillet
                      
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     3 jugs taffias at 20
                     60
                  
                  
                     December 26
                     3 jugs taffias with Brouillet at 20
                     60
                  
                  
                      
                     Paid to Reneaux
                     20
                  
                  
                      
                     1 jug for the Indians
                     20
                  
                  
                      
                     Paid to Crepeaux
                     10
                  
               
                    [Eighteenth page
                    
                  
                     Continued from the other part.
                      
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Paid to Mr. Dajenett
                     13 livres 10
                  
                  
                      
                     3 jugs taffias
                     60
                  
                  
                     1779
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     March 28
                     Paid for his part of one case2 of
                     
                  
                  
                      
                     taffias
                     20
                  
               
                    
                  
                            
                        1 This account is probably responsible for Helm's reputation
                                of being a heavy drinker. It is only fair to remember that the account covers the time
                                from October 5th to April 27th. Three of the purchases were for other people and the
                                other nine were evidently for social occasions usually shared with his friend Brouillet.
                            
                        Case seems the correct translation for Bte., in this
                                instance. Bte could hardly be meant for bouteille,
                                as a bottle of taffias sold for ten livres. Bte. is here probably an
                                abbreviation for boite.
                     
                        
               
                    
                    
                  
                     [Mars] 29
                     1 lancette
                     5
                  
                  
                     Avril 23
                     1 liv devermion
                     20
                  
                  
                     [Avril] 27
                     Paye a jh vodrill
                     5
                  
               
                    [ACCOUNT WITH THE UNITED STATES]
                    [Nineteenth page]
                    1778 fournie au Capne Helm pour les Compagne des Etats.49
               
                    
                  
                      
                     Savoir
                     comme suit
                  
                  
                      
                     1 gre mitasse50 que L'interprette
                     7" 10
                  
                  
                     7bre 25
                     2 Barils vinde51
                     
                     22"
                  
                  
                      
                     1 gre Mitasse
                     7" 10
                  
                  
                     [Septembre] 27
                     
                        
                                    Pay
                                é a La fremiere
                     10
                  
                  
                     [Septembre] 28
                     3651/2 Boeuf a 10 s
                     182" 15
                  
                  
                      
                     
                        
                                    Par
                                 un bon de M. monbrun
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     2 pr Soulier a 50 s
                     5"
                  
                  
                     [Septembre] 30
                     2" poudre a M. Rogen 8"
                     16
                  
                  
                      
                     8bre 4
                     363" 1/2 Boeuf a 10 s 181" 15
                  
                  
                     [Octobre] 10
                     365" Boeuf a 10 s
                     182" 10
                  
                  
                     [Octobre] 15
                     au Tabac chef Sauvages
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     2 mouchoirs soye
                     25
                  
                  
                     [Octobre] 20
                     1. gre mitasse a vu Chasseurnous
                     10"
                  
                  
                     [Octobre] 23
                     4 mains de papier a 5"
                     20"
                  
                  
                      
                     3" fer a 3"
                     9
                  
                  
                     9bre 1
                     3 Carottes tabac qu Lese Sauvages
                     15
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 4
                     pour avoir Levé La Compaignie
                     500
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 6
                     paye a M Roy 245 boeuf a 10 s
                     122" 10
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 11
                     336" Boeuf a 10 s
                     168"
                  
                  
                      
                     paye pour La Cheminée du
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     Corps garde
                     80
                  
                  
                      
                     pour avoir recouvrir
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     La maison du fort
                     10
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 12
                     payé a ste Marie 5 an serge52
                     
                     
                  
                  
                      
                     rouge qu Le pavilion 9"
                     45"
                  
                  
                      
                     Paye a M Dajenett 3 an 3/4 serge
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     verte a 10"
                     37" 10
                  
                  
                      
                     paye a Madme goderre pour
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     Lafacon du pavilion
                     25"
                  
                  
                      
                     En L'autre Part
                     L 1682
                  
               
                    
                  
                     49 This account was made out in duplicate by Bosseron in the Account
                            Book. As the two records are almost identical, it has not seemed necessary to print both.
                            The form given here is that of the second bill as the spelling seems somewhat clearer in
                            places.
                  
                     50 The meaning of mitasse is not clear. It is
                            possibly the phonetic spelling for mitraillea. The French Dictionary by
                            Clifton, Grimeaux, & McLaughlin derives this word from mitaille,
                            O.F. From mite, meaning a small coin. Mitasse seems more
                            likely to be contraction of demi tasse.
                  
                  
                     51
                            Vinde is colloquial for vin doux, sweet wine.
                  
                     52 The items listed on November 12th are of general interest as they
                            give all the facts available concerning the red and green flag raised by Madam Goderre,
                            which is often confused with the American flag raised over Fort Sackville by Father Gibault.
                            It should be noticed that Bosseron calls this Le pavilion, the pennant, or
                            company banner. A national flag is called a drapeau. It was probably not
                            made until late in the fall as It was not paid for until November.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     March 29
                     1 small lance
                     5
                  
                  
                     April 23
                     1 pound of vermillion
                     20
                  
                  
                     April 27
                     Paid to J. Vodrill
                     5
                  
               
                    [ACCOUNT WITH THE UNITED STATES.]
                    [Nineteenth page]
                    1778 Furnished to Captain Helm for the Company of the States.
                    
                  
                      
                     Items
                     as follows
                  
                  
                     September 25
                     1 large half-cup of [grape shot] which the interpreter [bought]
                     7 livres 10
                  
                  
                      
                     2 barrels sweet wine
                     22
                  
                  
                      
                     1 large half-cup of [grape-shot]
                     7 10
                  
                  
                     Sept. 27
                     Paid to Lafremiere
                     10
                  
                  
                     Sept. 28
                     365 1/2 pounds of beef at 10 s
                     182 livres 15
                  
                  
                      
                     By a check of M. Monbrun
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     2 prs shoes at 50 s
                     5 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Sept. 30
                     2 pounds of powder to M. Rogen 8
                     16
                  
                  
                     October 4
                     3631/2 pounds of beef at 10 s
                     181 livres 15
                  
                  
                     Oct. 10
                     365 pounds of beef at 10 s
                     182 livres 10
                  
                  
                     Oct. 15
                     To Tobacco, chief of the Indians
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     2 silk handkerchiefs
                     25 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Oct. 20
                     1 large half-cup of [grape-shot] to the order of our hunters
                     10 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Oct. 23
                     4 quires of paper at 5 livres
                     
                     20 livres
                     
                  
                  
                      
                     3 pounds arrow heads at 3 livres
                     
                     9
                  
                  
                     November 1
                     3 rolls of tobacco for the Indians
                     15
                  
                  
                     Nov. 4
                     For having raised the Company
                     500
                  
                  
                     Nov. 6
                     Paid to M. Roy—245 pounds of beef at 10 s
                     122 livres 10
                  
                  
                     Nov. 11
                     336 pounds of beef at 10 s
                     
                     168
                  
                  
                      
                     Paid for the chimney of the guard house
                     80
                  
                  
                      
                     For having repaired the house of the fort
                     10 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Nov. 12
                     Paid to St. Marie for 5 ells of red serge for the company flag 9 livres
                     
                     45 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Paid to M. Dajenett 33/4 ells of green serge at 10 livres
                     
                     37 livres 10
                  
                  
                      
                     Paid to Madam Goderre for the making of the flag
                     25 livres
                     
                  
                  
                      
                     To the next part
                     1682 livres
                     
                  
               
                    
                    [Twentieth page]
                    
                  
                     1778
                     Rapporte de L'autre Part
                     L 1682
                  
                  
                     9bre 13
                     40" Balles a 40 s
                     80"
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 17
                     160" farine a 8 s
                     64"
                  
                  
                      
                     2 pots taffias a vu chef pians53
                     
                     40"
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 18
                     2 pots ditto aux outasias 20"
                     40"
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 19
                     41/2 ditto aux Tabac chef
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     et Sa Bande 20
                     90"
                  
                  
                      
                     1 pot ditto a vu Loup chef
                     20
                  
                  
                      
                     1 Baril vinde
                     6
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 21
                     1 Bouteille taffias qu vu Loup
                     10"
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 22
                     1 pot ditto a deschasseurnous
                     20"
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 24
                     2 pots ditto aux ouxyatanous
                     40"
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 27
                     1 Bouteille ditto pour ditto
                     20"
                  
                  
                      
                     paye a Cardinal 389 Ire Boeuf a 10 s
                     194" 10
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 28
                     1 Bouteille taffias nuvu chef
                     10
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 29
                     10 Ires poudre a 8"
                     80"
                  
                  
                     [Novembre] 30
                     41/2 pots taffias qu des souleux
                     90"
                  
                  
                      
                     1 cochon
                     30
                  
                  
                     [Decembre] 1
                     1 Bouteille taffias a vu Chef. mis.
                     10 [livres]
                  
                  
                      
                     2 Bouteilles ditto aux chasseurnous
                     20
                  
                  
                     [Decembre] 2
                     2 pots et pinte taffias a vue
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     Band Sauvage Coux 20"
                     50
                  
                  
                      
                     402" Boeuf54 a 10 S
                     201
                  
                  
                     [Decembre] 3
                     2 pots taffias a des outasias
                     40
                  
                  
                     [Decembre] 4
                     1 pot ditto aux memes
                     20
                  
                  
                      
                     payé au sorgeron pour avoir
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     raccomoder Les fers
                     6
                  
                  
                      
                     Pour la facon de la gueritte
                     30
                  
                  
                     [Decembre] 8
                     3221/2 Boeuf a 10 s
                     161" 5
                  
                  
                     [Decembre] 11
                     5 pots taffias qe Les Pians
                     100
                  
                  
                      
                     1 Baril vinde
                     6
                  
                  
                     [Decembre] 12
                     1 not tassias aux ouyatanons
                     20
                  
                  
                     [Decembre] 13
                     126" a 10 s
                     63
                  
                  
                      
                     cy Contre
                     3233" 15
                  
               
                    [Twenty first page]
                    
                  
                     1778
                     rapporte cy contre
                     L 3233 15
                  
                  
                     [Decembre] 13
                     9 pots taffias pour les Couriers …. 
                     envoye aux Ouyas 20" 180
                  
                  
                      
                     6 Ire pains a 40 s
                     12"
                  
                  
                      
                     2 Barils vinde a [7 livres]
                     14
                  
               
                    
                  
                     53 It is interesting to notice the number of items recorded in this
                            account from which it is evident that Captain Helm was making efforts to win the Indians
                            around 
                                Vincennes
                             to the American cause. There are twenty different entries of this nature.
                  
                     54 Bosseron provided over three thousand pounds of beef for the
                            garrison of the fort during the period when held by American troops in 1778, and in many
                            cases had to pay cash for it.
               
                    
                    [Twentieth page]
                    
                  
                     1778
                     Carried from other part
                     1682 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     November 13
                     40 pounds of balls
                     80 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Nov. 17
                     160 pounds of flour at 8 s
                     64 livres
                     
                  
                  
                      
                     2 jugs of taffias for the chief of Pians
                     40 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Nov. 18
                     2 jugs [jars] ditto to the Outasis 20 livres
                     
                     40 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Nov. 19
                     4 1/2 ditto to Tobacco, the chief and his band at 20
                     90 livres
                     
                  
                  
                      
                     1 jug ditto to the Loup chief
                     20 livres
                     
                  
                  
                      
                     1 barrel of sweet wine
                     6 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Nov. 21
                     1 bottle taffias for Loup
                     10 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Nov. 22
                     1 jug ditto to our hunters
                     20 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Nov. 24
                     2 jugs ditto to the Ouyatanous
                     40 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Nov. 27
                     1 bottle ditto for ditto
                     20 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Nov. 28
                     Paid to Cardinal 389 pounds of beef at 10 s
                     
                     194 livres 10
                  
                  
                     Nov. 28 1 bottle taffias for the chief
                      
                     10
                  
                  
                     Nov. 29 10 pounds powder at 8 livres
                     
                      
                     80 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     Nov. 30 4% jugs of taffias for the Souteux
                     90 livres 1
                     pig 30 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     December 1
                     1 bottle taffias for the chief of
                     10
                  
                  
                      
                     our allies
                     20
                  
                  
                     [Dec] 2
                     2 bottles ditto for our hunters
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     2
                     jugs and a pint for a band of savage Indian Coux 50
                  
                  
                      
                     402 pounds of beef at 10 s
                     201
                  
                  
                     [Dec] 3
                     2 jugs of taffias to some Outiasias
                     40
                  
                  
                     [Dec] 4
                     1 jug ditto to the same
                     20
                  
                  
                      
                     Paid to Corgeron for having repaired the arrows irons
                     6
                  
                  
                      
                     For the making of the guard house
                     30
                  
                  
                     [Dec] 8
                     3221/2 pounds of beef at 10 s
                     
                     161 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     [Dec] 11
                     5 jugs of taffias for the Pians
                     100
                  
                  
                      
                     1 barrel of sweet wine
                     6
                  
                  
                     [Dec] 12
                     1 jug of taffias to the Ouiatanons
                     20
                  
                  
                     [Dec] 13
                     126 pounds of beef at 10 s
                     
                     63
                  
                  
                      
                     To the next account
                     3233 livres 15s
                     
                  
               
                    [Twenty first page]
                    
                  
                     1778
                     Carried from last account
                     3233 livres 15s
                     
                  
                  
                     December 13
                     9 jugs of taffias for the couriers
                     
                  
                  
                      
                     sent to the Ouyas 20 livres
                     
                     180
                  
                  
                      
                     6 pounds of bread at 40 s
                     
                     12 livres
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     2 barrels of sweet wine at 7 livres
                     
                     14 livres
                     
                  
               
                    
                    
                  
                     [Decembre] 14
                     5 pots et pinte taffias pour
                      
                  
                  
                      
                     Les Ouyatanons et les mis 20
                     110
                  
                  
                      
                     16" lard a 30 s
                     24 [livres]
                  
                  
                      
                     2" poudre a vu sauvage a 8 [livres]
                     16
                  
                  
                     [Decembre] 17
                     241 Boef a 10 s
                     120" 10
                  
                  
                      
                     150" poudre a 8"
                     1200
                  
                  
                      
                      
                     4910" 5s
                  
                  
                      
                      
                     200"
                  
               
                    Avoir en argent55 40 piastres
                    recu La Balance du Compte cy dessus par
                    un ordre du Capne helm sur George Clark
                    Colonel Commandent aux Jlinois
                    La Somme de quartre mille Sept Cens dix
                    Livres Cinq Sols au fort st Vincenne
                    Le 14 Janvier 1779.56
               
                    
                  
                     55 The value of a piastre is shown to be five livres or one dollar, since 40 piastres are given as
                            equivalent to 200 livres.
                  
                  
                     56 It seems almost certain that this account of Bosseorn's is
                            the one numbered No. 5 in the Proceedings of the 
                                Virginia
                             House of Delegates and that "Bill of Exchange No. 9" is the
                            order upon General Clark mentioned here. There are two discrepancies. The date given here is
                            January 14, 1779, and that given in the discussion of Bill of Exchange No. 9 is November 19,
                            1779. The amounts differ somewhat also. Bill of Exchange No. 9 is for 1067 dollars; the
                            amount due here is 5710 livres and five sous, or $942.05. On the other hand, this
                            is the only certified account of which we know Bosseron sent to the 
                                Virginia
                             House of Delegates. It is certain that no money was available for paying
                            Clark's bills in 1779. It is quite probable that Bosseron was called on to provide
                            additional supplies for the garrison during 1779, and that these were added to the earlier
                            account.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     [Dec] 14
                     5 jugs and a pint of taffias for the Ouitanons and the allies at 20
                     110 livres
                     
                  
                  
                      
                     16 pounds of bacon at 30 s
                     
                     24
                  
                  
                      
                     2 pounds of powder for the Indians
                     16
                  
                  
                     [Dec] 17
                     241 pounds of beef at 10 s
                     
                     1120 livres 10
                  
                  
                      
                     150 pounds of powder at 8 livres
                     
                     1200
                  
                  
                     
                      
                     4910 livres 5s
                  
               
                    Received in silver 40 piastres 200 livres
               
                    Received the balance of the account above by an order of Capt. Helm on George Clark, Colonel
                        commanding in 
                            Illinois
                         the sum of four thousand seven hundred ten livres and five sols at the Fort St. Vincent January 14, 1779.
                
         
         
         
            A Letter of 1832
            [The following letter was written by Martha Fussell the wife of Soloman Fussell very soon after they
                    arrived at the home of John Lewis in 1832. Lewis was a pioneer already established on a frontier
                    farm near Pendleton, Indiana. The letter was mailed to the father and mother of Solomon Fussell back
                    in 
                  Chester County, Pennsylvania
               , and was designed for them and other relatives and
                    friends from whom Martha and her husband had recently parted. Solomon and Martha Fussell were the
                    great-grandparents of Charles Swain Thomas. Henry Lewis in whose cabin home they were entertained
                    was the grandfather of Miss Evangeline E. Lewis, of the Pendleton and 
                        Fall Creek
                     Township Public Library, and the little Joe spoken of in the letter was her father,
                    then but two years old. The father and mother of Solomon Fussell to whom the letter was written were
                    the great-grandparents of Miss Lewis. The Magazine is indebted to Miss Lewis for
                    the letter, who sent it with the information presented in this foreword to Pres. W. L. Bryan of
                    Indiana University. The letter was printed in the Pendleton Times on March 22,
                        1923.—Editor.]
            
               
                        Fall Creek
                    , [Indiana], 11-3, 1832.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dear Relatives and Friends:
                        Knowing you feel an interest in our well doing, I hasten to write to inform you of
                                    safe arrival at our place of destination in good health and spirits, meeting with
                                    nothing to disturb our journey since writing at Fail-View.
                        We have had as pleasant weather as we could have wished and the roads are as good as
                                    could reasonably be expected. We got to Jonathan Justice's late Firstday
                                    [Sunday] and received a hearty welcome by them. They appear to be a very worthy
                                    family, who came to this country when it was quite a wilderness under far more
                                    discouragements than any of us could possibly have thought we could have endured.
                                    But through industry and faithful reliance on that Hand which never misleads those
                                    who ask for aid, they have become independent though not austere and hard hearted,
                                    nor do they think that all who do not get along as well as they have deserved no
                                    mercy or assistance, and they seem wiling to extend of charity to all that need it.
                                    We left them on Secondday and got here at John Lewis's on Fourthday and
                                    found them all well and very comfortably settled on their own land in a cabin where
                                    we all are with them. They are in good spirits, and I see no reasons why they should
                                    be otherwise, as the prospect before them in our opinion is promising and sincerely
                                    as [do] I wish we could meet with as good bargain as they have.  It is in truth a beautiful situation, directly on the
                                    State road and the land more like a mole hill than you ever saw. You cannot form an
                                    idea of the quality of the soil without seeing for yourselves. We do not feel any
                                    ways discouraged except in land having risen in price so much since Solomon was out
                                    last fall. Then would have been the time for him to have had the best chance of
                                    buying.
                        John Lewis has been offered $200 for 40 acres of his and would not accept
                                    this offer knowing that it will represent a thrible interest.
                        11th Month, 4th
                        Solomon has been looking at several places that are for sale but has not concluded to
                                    take any one yet until he looks more around the country. So far we are much pleased
                                    with this place. It is quite thickly settled and with some very respectable people.
                                    There have been ten of the neighbors in to see us today, two very fine old Friends,
                                    William Williams and Daniel Nicholson. D. Nicholson's daughter was here
                                    when we got here. She is a very nice looking girl. There are several families of
                                    Friends near Huntsville, though no meeting established yet. Joseph Cadwalleder had a
                                    meeting there this day two weeks ago to the general satisfication of all parties.
                        I will now give you some account of our expenses, which amounted in all to
                                    eighty-five dollars and fifteen cents; ten dollars toll on the turnpike near four
                                    hundred miles, and most part of as beautiful road as you ever saw. The
                                    doctor's bill and extra expenses on Priscilla's [afterwards
                                    Priscilla M. Thomas, who was very sick during the journey] account twelve dollars;
                                    and two bushels of oats and corn for horsefeed which averaged about thirty-one cents
                                    a bushel. Corn sells here from twenty to twenty-five cents, wheat sixty to
                                    seventy-five cents, potatoes sixteen cents a bushel, butter eight cents, cabbage two
                                    dollars per hundred, eggs six cents, beef, hind quarter, two and one-half cents a
                                    pound, fore quarter, two cents; tallow, six cents; pork one and one-half cents.
                        Owing to the stagnation of business on account of the vetoe [Jackson's veto
                                    of the Bank Bill July 10, 1832] and cholera at 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    , there has been no sale of hogs this season. Wages a day for a man
                                    thirty-seven and one-half cents, and fifty in summer and dried apples seventy-five
                                    cents a bushel. We got a few things for housekeeping at a little town between here
                                    and 
                                        Milton
                                     at the following prices: coffee-pot fifty cents; one half dozen large
                                    plates forty-three cents; small plates thirty-one cents; cream jug twenty-five
                                    cents; two pint bowls (Liverpool ware) thirty-seven cents; 
                                        Japan
                                     pepper box six cents; one half dozen knives (very handsome)
                                    seventy-five cents. Hallow ware sells here at four cents per pound; wool
                                    thirty-seven and one-half cents already carded, leather, good Spanish hide, sells at
                                    twenty-eight cents; buckwheat at thirty-seven and one-half cents and good shirting
                                    muslin at 
                                        Milton
                                     thirty-seven and one-half cents; I do not know the price here as I have
                                    had no chance of knowing. Bureaus are twelve dollars with glass mountings, splint
                                    bottom chairs thirty-seven and one-half cents apiece, brick twenty-five cents per
                                    hundred, very good tea one dollar per pound; coffee six pounds for one dollar, salt
                                    fifty pounds for one dollar, earthen ware is 
                                    the dearest article that there is, on account of not having a pottery near here that
                                    is carried on as it should be. There is excellent clay here for the purpose and wood
                                    for the cutting. The oracle of the West, Jonathan Justice says,—Anyone
                                    that understands the business would in a few years monopolize the whole trade, and
                                    realize an independent fortune. I do regret that sister Mary was unwilling to let
                                    her boys have the chance.
                        Please tell Thomas Jacobs that the papers have not come to 
                                        Milton
                                    , and I wish him to write to J. Painter and tell him to direct to
                                    Pendleton post office. I do think Uncle Tommy would be delighted with this place, it
                                    is such a wonderful place for trade and business of all sorts. You may think that we
                                    are out of the world but we seem to have just got into it. I believe we see from
                                    fifty to sixty people passing and repassing daily, on horseback, in wagons and
                                    sleds, within sixteen yards of the door. It is now not eleven o'clock and
                                    Sarah has counted forty-six already.
                        The place Solomon seems most pleased with is situated one and one half miles from
                                    here. It has a spring sufficient to water the whole place from end to end, and lies
                                    directly on what we call the 
                                        Knightstown
                                     road leading from the State road to the National road. There is great
                                    want of a good blacksmith here as there is none here that carries on the trade very
                                    briskly. I do not see anything to prevent people from doing well if they have their
                                    health and are industrious but it will require both and some privations, though
                                    nothing to what many have to encounter in older settled places. It is surprising to
                                    see the number that are coming to this settlement and the increase in the price of
                                    land. If any of our friends have a disposition to possess land here they had better
                                    do so soon. It will indeed be an increasing fund for themselves and their children.
                                    Please tell Brother Charles [Moore] that we wish he would forward the Courier to
                                    Pendleton as it would seem like something from home. We often, very often, think of
                                    you and it seems almost a mistaken idea that we are 600 miles apart when the heart
                                    is so often with you through the day.
                        To convince Aunt Nancy that Rebecca is not deprived of all the comforts of life I
                                    will tell her I have just got up from dinner consisting of good roast pork,
                                    potatoes, turnips, stewed apples, stewed pumpkin, wheat bread, buckwheat cakes, and
                                    butter and a good cup of tea. She is as comfortably fixed as anybody could be in the
                                    same length of time. She has a sweet little, fat black headed baby, as good as she
                                    could ask and little Joe is quite well and so are all of our children at present.
                        Solomon and John have just returned from the election. They were allowed the
                                    privilege of voting greatly to their satisfaction. Solomon has had several very good
                                    offers. If we had money we would get improved land but that has got almost beyond
                                    our reach. Should Joshua conclude to come out this winter I would be much obliged to
                                    him if he could call at a tavern in Mt. Sterling seven and one-half miles west of 
                                        Zanesville
                                     on the National Road (The man's name is Weingardener) and ask
                                    for a small bag containing various articles left there by us. Describe the wagon and
                                    no doubt they will remember it for it was much admired by them. I have written to
                                    Brother Richard today and Solomon is so engaged in land hunting that he has not had
                                    time to write to anyone and  we wish you to send
                                    this around to all that are near, and write what you would consider would be
                                    interesting to the rest at a distance, and do please write soon. We are wishing much
                                    to hear from you all. Please give our love to all of our friends. Tell Peter we got
                                    plenty of his old fare, chicken and short cake and often wished he was along to help
                                    partake of it.
                        I am afraid you will be hard set to read this for I have made so many mistakes that I
                                    am ashamed of it but we have but one apartment and all the children are talking
                                    around and asking questions. There is no talk of cholera in these parts and the
                                    country is remarkably healthy this season.
                        The roads are so good and likely to be better that we begin to anticipate the
                                    pleasure of seeing Father out here sometime if his health continues which I hope it
                                    may. It is getting [along] in the morning so with more love for Father and Mother
                                    and all the rest than can be expressed I close. John and Rebecca send their love to
                                    all as if mentioned. R. says I. may say she is not sick now. John says she has
                                    mended very much since we came. I must conclude or I shall not have paper enough to
                                    fold this up. We will write again when we have got settled which I hope will be
                                    soon, so no more at present.
                        
                                    Your affectionate children and friends
                                    Solomon and Martha Fussell.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               The Tragic Era: The Revolution after Lincoln. By CLAUDE G. BOWEES. Houghton
                    Mifflin Company, 
                        Boston
                    , 1929. Pp. xxii+567. Illustrated, $5.00.
            Books on special periods of American party history have come rapidly from the pen of Mr. Bowers in
                    recent years. First, Party Battles of the Jackson Period (1922), then, Jefferson and 
                            Hamilton
                        
                (1925), and now The Tragic Era. Of his purpose in writing
                    the new volume, the author says: "I have sought to recreate the black and bloody drama of
                    these years [1865-1877], to show the leaders of the fighting factions at close range, to picture the
                    moving masses, both whites and blacks, in North and South, surging crazily under the influence of
                    the poisonous propaganda on which they were fed." He sticks to his purpose and performs his
                    task with spirit and evident enjoyment. Events stand out with dramatic clearness, and characters are
                    made to live before their readers.
            The narrative starts with the death of Lincoln and the. accession of Johnson in a chapter headed,
                    "The King is Dead; Long Live the King." The story closes with the Hayes-Tilden
                    election dispute and the end of the carpet-bag régime. The last chapter is entitled,
                    "The Crowning Crime—and Release." The entire volume is writtten in a
                    "style that haunts". The reader is given many a chance to look behind the scenes.
                    Some men are painted blacker than ever before, and perhaps some, like Andrew Johnson, whiter. The
                    stirring scenes and dramatic episodes of the period are seized on and presented with force and
                    skill. Opinions are freely expressed. Of the congressional campaign of 1866, Bowers says:
                    "The Johnsonians … sought through serious constitutional arguments to reach the
                    minds of the voters; the Radicals were concerned solely with their passions." Of Senator
                    Oliver P. Morton, he writes: "He wanted nothing on his sword but blood, and that he seldom
                    failed to draw. In his more savage moments—and he was never gentle—he had no
                    patience with the sword—he grasped a battle-axe." Again: "The election
                    of 1872 was a sweeping triumph for reaction; and the South 
                    found itself in more dire straits than ever, as the corruptionists and carpetbaggers, triumphant,
                    mounted and rode."
            An unprejudiced reader of the pages of Bowers must agree with most of his conclusions. His
                    interpretations of the party activities of the period are, in the main correct. He deserves credit
                    for his courage in setting forth the ugly truth. He should be praised, likewise, for looking into
                    many and scattered sources for information. In short, he comes close to being an able historian. He
                    is safe enough for critical and widely-read students of history, who are themselves accustomed to
                    handling the sources. These can gather the facts from his narrative, guard themselves against the
                    persuasive influence of his rhetoric, and modify his conclusions when it seems necessary. At the
                    same time, they can not escape the conviction that a more restrained style, more pro and con in the discussion of problems and men, and fewer unqualified
                    opinions would vastly improve the works of this near-brilliant author.
            It may be argued that Mr. Bowers does not write for the sake of trained historical students, but for
                    a vastly larger class of People who have not been in the habit of reading history The answer is that
                    it is these very readers who have no protection against writers of the school of Mr. Bowers. They
                    are not critical. They have little knowledge of the sources. They do not distinguish between fact
                    and fiction. They read what appeals to them. They read for enjoyment and the information acquired is
                    incidental. No period, not even the "Tragic Era" is altogether one of thrills.
                    Even drama is not made up of climaxes in rapid succession. Most actors on the stage of history are
                    gray, rather than black or white. In an era of excitement, selfishness and corruption, there are
                    always some extenuating circumstances. Much that was unsavory in the politics of the period
                    following the Civil War was perfectly natural. The currents of the time ran true to form, as they
                    tend to do in every country, under similar conditions, without reference to what parties or leaders
                    may be in the ascendency. All three of the volumes of Mr. Bowers would be much sounder, live longer
                    and do less harm, had he understood that it is not so much the business of the historian to blame
                    and praise, as to explain political leaders. Neither is it the chief business of the historian to
                    drive his own interpretations into the  minds of his readers
                    with the most forceful English that he can command, but instead to present the truth clearly leaving
                    his readers free to form their own conclusions in the presence of the evidence impartially stated.
                    Within these limits, an engaging style should not be despised but welcomed.
            The Literary Guild of America has chosen The Tragic Era for distribution to its
                    members, as one of twelve books selected for the present year. This is a tribute to the powers of
                    Mr. Bowers as a writer in the field of political history which can not be ignored. An earlier
                    selection of the Guild was Woodward's Meet General Grant. The choice of
                    these volumes by the keen-minded Carl 
                        Van
                     Doren and his associates carries a heavy responsibility. It seems to imply that these
                    intellectual leaders, who have assumed the task of educating the tastes of cultivated readers,
                    prefer books in the field of history that have high literary quality. They must of course,
                    understand the desirability of unbiased accounts, balanced narratives, and presentations of truth
                    for its own sake, but evidently these seemingly indispensible qualities of historical writing have
                    been considered as secondary.
            William O. Lynch.
         
         
            
               William Byrd's Histories of the Dividing Line betwixt 
                            Virginia
                         and 
                            North Carolina
                        
                (xxvii+341 pp.) has recently been published by The 
                        North Carolina
                     Historical Commission (Raleigh). The work was prepared for the Commission by Professor
                    William K. Boyd of Duke University, who furnishes a valuable Introduction of seventeen pages, and
                    accompanies the text of the document with ample notes. The volume is supplied with an adequate
                    index. The last several pages of the Introduction are devoted to the life and characteristics of
                    William Byrd. The book is attractively printed and bound. Students of the colonial period of
                    American history are placed under great obligations to Professor Boyd and the 
                        North Carolina
                     Commission.
            The State Department of History of South Dakota has brought out a fourteenth volume of the Historical Collections of that State. The new volume is one of 590 pp. In addition
                    there are ten supplementary pages consisting of "Administrative and Protective
                    Regulations", being Part 21 of the South  Dakota
                    Revised Code of 1919. These excerpts from the laws of the State relate mainly to the State
                    Historical Society and to the State Library. The volume proper is made up of eleven papers which
                    pertain to the history of South Dakota and to the Territory of Dakota, save the first, which is an
                    article on the "History and Resources of Dakota, 
                        Montana
                     and 
                        Idaho
                    ".
            
               Indiana History Bulletin, Extra Number 2, Volume VI (
                        Indianapolis
                    , May, 1929), consists of the "Proceedings of the Tenth Annual Indiana History
                    Conferences" which was held at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on December 7-8, 1928. Several valuable and interesting papers read before the
                    different sessions of this Conference are printed in this Bulletin. It should be
                    acquired, read and preserved by all who are interested in the history of Indiana and the Old
                    Northwest.
            In The Builder, "The National Magazine of Freemasonry", for July,
                    1929, there is a biographical sketch of General 
                        Washington
                     Johnston, who was an early citizen of 
                        Vincennes
                    , by Curtis G. Shake of that city. Johnston was a Virginian who came to 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1793. He was the founder of Masonry in Indiana Territory. He was a lawyer of
                    prominence and an influential leader in his community. He became a foe of slavery in the Territory,
                    and in the sub-title of his article, Mr. Shake characterizes Johnston as "An Early Opponent
                    of Slavery". Between 1793 and 1833, when he died, Johnston filled various public offices,
                    among them that of Treasurer of Indiana Territory and Judge of the Circuit Court of his district. In
                    1809, he published a law book, said to be the first written in the Territory, The
                        Justices' and Constables' Guide. Although a soldier, being with Harrison
                    at the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , Johnston did not acquire the military title of General. He was
                    christened General 
                            Washington
                        
                by his parents. In spite of the handicap thus placed on him by a proud father
                    and mother, he lived a useful, honorable and even a distinguished life. The paper of Mr. Shake is
                    carefully prepared and deserves a place in the libraries of the State.
            
            MORE LIGHT ON PRESIDENT HOOVER's ANCESTRY
            [The title of the first article reviewed by Mrs. Clarke is, "Origin of the Hoover Families";
                    of the second, "Hoover American Ancestry". For these articles see the National Genealogical Quarterly, XVII, 1-8 (March, 1929). See also the, XXIV, 223-241
                    (December, 1928), for Mrs. Clarke's paper, "Andrew Hoover comes to
                    Indiana". In her study, which antedates that of Mr. Staudt by several weeks, Mrs. Clarke
                    presents the correct Andreas Huber. From documents, preserved by the Indiana descendants of Andreas,
                    she furnishes some facts about the American career of the President's ancestor not included
                    in Mr. Staudt's article. Like President Hoover, Mrs. Clarke is a descendant of the Andreas
                    Huber who reached America in 1738.—Editor.]
            Two interesting articles on Hoover ancestry appear in the National Genealogical Society
                        Quarterly for March, 1929, one by Richard N. Staudt of Buenos Aires, a member of the
                    Society and a collateral descendant of the Andreas Huber who landed in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1741, and the other by Major Calvin Kephart, president of the Genealogical Society,
                    the latter paper being a sort of sequel to Mr. Staudt's contribution. No very startling
                    facts are disclosed in these articles, the most important new point established being that the
                    Andreas Huber who was President Hoover's ancestor did not come from Baden-Baden after all,
                    but from the town of Ellerstadt in the Swiss Palatinate, a village belonging to the County of
                    Wartenberg which a few years later became a part of the Margraviate of Baden. It is supposed that
                    when Andreas went back on a visit (if he did) or when he wrote asking for a birth of christening
                    certificate, whatever documents were made out for him were made out by the Baden authorities. Hence
                    the supposition that his home was Baden. In like manner, the fact that he sailed from Rotterdam
                    doubtless gave rise to the rumor that he was of Dutch origin.
            Mr. Staudt depends largely in his narrative on the findings of H. F. Macco, one of 
                        Germany
                    's most eminent genealogists, who at first believed that President
                    Hoover's ancestor was the Andreas Huber who came over in 1741. The pains and patience
                    necessary to establish genealogical data are sometimes almost infinite and one is filled with
                    wonder, admiration and gratitude at the results. The reward must often lie solely in the
                    satisfication there is in finding out the truth. In these investigations no slightest link is
                    unimportant, and nothing is taken for granted that is capable of proof. When word reached  Mr. Macco that the Andreas Huber who was the ancestor of our
                    President came to this country before 1740 he did not stop until he had run down any number of Huber
                    lines to which this Andreas did not belong, and his findings must prove of great
                    interest and value to these other Hubers.
            The fact that the Andreas landed in 
                        Philadelphia
                     on September 9, 1738, at the age of fifteen years, is verified. It is also proved that
                    he was born at Ellerstadt, in the district of Durkheim, in the Palatinate, that he was the son of
                    Jonas Huber and his wife Maria, and that he was christened on January 29, 1723, the entry being
                    found in the church-book of the Lutheran parish of Ellerstadt. His father, Jonas, died in Ellerstadt
                    April 13, 1741, aged 73, within two years after Andreas' departure for America; so we know
                    that the lad who came unaccompanied by any member of his family left at least one parent behind, and
                    the fact that he named his oldest son Jonas proves that he thought fondly of him. Jonas the father
                    of Andreas was the son of Johan Heinrich Huber, a citizen and linen-weaver of Oberkulm, in the
                    county of Lenzburg in the Swiss canton of Aargau. Herr Macco has even found the very spot on which
                    Andreas Huber was born, by looking up the estate-register, and that, as late as 1790, the house was
                    still in possession of the family, its then owner being Joh. Philip Huber, a nephew of Andreas and
                    grandson of Jonas.
            When he began his researches Mr. Staudt, like Macco, believed that Herbert Hoover was descended from
                    the Andreas who arrived here in 1741 at the age of 20, and settled in what is now 
                  Lebanon county, Pennsylvania
               . This man's will is on file at 
                        Harrisburg
                    , and shows him to have been a considrable property owner, and to have left a large
                    family. His wife was Gertrude Schwarz. Whether he and the Andreas Huber who came three years earlier
                    and settled on Pipe Creek, 
                        Maryland
                    , married Margaret Fouts, and moved to 
                        North Carolina
                    , ever met is not known. People did not go about much in those days. At any rate, every
                    scrap of Hoover lore possesses a certain value nowadays, for as the President of the National
                    Genealogical Society says: "The genealogy of an individual who by sheer individual effort
                    rises from humble circumstances to greatness, is always of general public interest."
            Grace Julian Clarke.
         
         
         
            Comment and News
            The Executive Committee of the Indiana Historical Society deserves to be highly commended for the
                    campaign recently launched to increase the membership of the organization. Out of the population of
                    the entire State, it seems unbelievable that only about a thousand are sufficiently interested in
                    the purposes of the Society and in its publications to pay the nominal membership dues each year.
                    The Editor believes that, instead of one thousand, there are easily ten thousand
                    persons in Indiana who would gladly pay the annual fee of $2.00, if better acquainted
                    with the activities and aims of the Society. He feels certain that ten thousand citizens of the
                    State could be found who would willingly sustain the work of the Society, even if not readers of the
                        Bulletins of the Indiana Historical Bureau and the quarterly issues of the Indiana Magazine of History. The members of the Executive Committee of the Indiana Historical Society are not super-salesmen. They would not use the methods
                    of super-salesmen if they could. Rightly they prefer that members of the Society shall join of their
                    own free will, because they wish to take part in the activities of the Society and because they
                    enjoy reading the publications furnished to all members. Much can be done to further the interests
                    of the Society by present members. Readers of this issue of the Magazine are
                    respectfully urged to aid the Executive Committee of the Historical Society in the laudable effort
                    to obtain new members who will be active workers and who will become interested readers of the Magazine and other publications.
            In his "Invitation to Membership" in the Indiana Historical Society which was sent
                    out in August, Mr. Lee Burns, Chairman of the Executive Committee, pointed out that the organization
                    was formed on December 11, 1830. He closed his appeal with these appropriate words: 
                        In 1930 the Society will have completed a century of important, valuable service to the
                            State. We invite everyone who is interested in the history of the state and in preserving
                            its important landmarks and forwarding its finer traditions to join the Society and take
                            part in our Centennial Celebration in December, 1930.
                    
            
            
            With the next issue, the will have completed a quarter century of existence. Within the twenty-five
                    volumes, it is possible to find a considerable number of carefully prepared papers pertaining to
                    important events and characters vitally related to the history of Indiana. Documentary material of
                    value has been printed from time to time. Certain early issues have become very scarce, but there
                    are several complete files in the State that are accessible to all historical investigators and also
                    a number of such files outside in various libraries of the country. It is very desirable that a
                    comprehensive index covering all the volumes to the end of the present year shall be published. It
                    is the hope of the Editor that such an index may be prepared and furnished to
                    subscribers. The project will certainly be undertaken if the problem of the modest cost of the
                    venture can be solved.
            In the last number of the Magazine, the Editor had the boldness
                    to declare that he would like to announce an offer of fifty dollars for the best article on some
                    phase of Indiana history, with a second fifty dollars to be distributed equally among five of those
                    who should submit other papers suitable for publication. The mails have not been flooded with
                    letters from generous readers concerning this proposed competition. Sadly must it be reported that
                    not a single communication regarding the desired $100 has come in. An appeal for
                    $1000 would have met with a response fully as prompt! Possibly, the reaction to a plea
                    for the larger sum would have been more effective. We live under conditions when small things are
                    despised. The promoters of drives go after colossal sums, To accomplish certain ends, hundreds of
                    thousands of dollars are now thought essential where thousands, or even hundreds, of dollars would
                    have been deemed ample but a few years ago. To a large degree, there is no rational justification
                    for this condition. It is a fashion of the times. The Editor will stand by his
                    proposal. He wants $100 and no more for the purpose mentioned. If nine readers will
                    subscribe ten dollars each, he will add the final ten necessary to round out the coveted sum. Watch
                    for the report in the December number.
            There is evidence on every hand that book-readers are turning more and more to history and biography.
                    This is largely due to the fact that a new class of writers have invaded  the field. Volumes of a kind that sell are being written. They not only
                    sell but they are widely read and enjoyed. There is not so much in the books from the prolific pens
                    of the present popular producers that is new, but being written in appealing language by authors who
                    have a keen scent for the dramatic and a graphic power of description, they are read by a host of
                    people who have hitherto cared little for history. Not familiar with the works of trained historical
                    workers, the hosts of new readers have fallen readily into the erroneous view that the authors whose
                    works they follow with appreciation have done an unusual amount of research and have found extensive
                    sources of information unknown to well-meaning but wooden-headed college professors. The plain facts
                    are that the new school of successful writers have done far less careful research, that their
                    narratives are less sane and not as well balanced, and that the sources used, with rare exceptions,
                    are well known to students of history who have been on the firing-line for years. The new writers,
                    as well as the new readers, have deceived themselves in regard to the extent of their investigations
                    and the originality of their disclosures. Two things the new writers have accomplished. They have
                    found readers, and they have forced more scholarly investigators to give greater attention to the
                    presentation of their findings for which everyone should give thanks.
            High-powered advertising on the part of publishers is partly responsible for the wide sale of the new
                    histories and biographies and to a great extent for the mistaken notions that have come to prevail
                    in the minds of readers. Possible purchasers of books receive letters daily from responsible
                    publishers praising the volumes of the later entrants in the field of historical writing in most
                    intriguing fashion. Many of the choice passages used in the advertising of the fascinating
                    historical works that are "going over big" read as if written by the same highly
                    trained and gifted composers who prepare the encomiums that lead men to buy the various brands of
                    shaving-cream.
            The Mexican War Letters published in the Magazine for June, were kindly furnished
                    by Mrs. Mildred Knight Richardson and Mrs. Dorothy Knight 
                        Greene
                     of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , grand-daughters  of Dr. E. W. H. Beck, some of
                    whose letters were included in the collection. Dr. Beck (whose second initial was
                    "W" and not "M" as erroneously printed in the last issue)
                    married Miss Frances M. Milroy ("Frank"), a sister of Robert and Samuel Milroy.
                    The great-grandfather of Mrs. Richardson and Mrs. Greene was the well-known General Samuel Milroy,
                    father of Frances, Robert, and Samuel.
            The pamphlet, Pioneer Sketches of 
                            DeKalb County
                        
               , which was reprinted in the June number of the Magazine was
                    sent in by Mr. Clarence 
                        Greene
                    , Superintendent of Schools of 
                        DeKalb County
                    . The writer of the Sketches, the Rev. S. W. Widney, had lived in 
                        DeKalb County
                     for about twenty years, when they appeared in a local paper, having come to the County
                    when seventeen years of age. He did not depend on his own memory alone, but obtained and
                    incorporated in his narrative accounts by several of the original settlers. The Sketches reveal very clearly that the severe winters of northeastern Indiana added
                    materially to the problems of pioneering in that part of the State.
            In a short address before the Tenth Annual Conference of Indiana History on December 7, 1928, the Editor made a plea for reminiscent sketches by Hoosiers who lived through the
                    period from 1865 to 1900. This was a period of transition of great interest and importance. Those
                    who arrived at maturity near the beginning of this period are now approaching old age. They must
                    write soon or never, as the Editor then stated. In this connection, he declared:
                    "I shall be glad to confer with any politician, journalist, lawyer, doctor, educator,
                    minister, farmer, merchant, or ex-saloonkeeper who can tell an interesting story of what he learned
                    by experience in the half century folowing 1865." At the present moment, the Editor wishes to stress the importance of what, he said last December, and appeal again
                    for papers from competent writers who have acquired valuable historical knowledge through
                    experience.
            Mr. George S. Cottman whose sketch of the career of John Mahoney as a sculptor appears in this issue
                    is well known to all of the faithful workers in the field of Indiana history. For some years, he was
                    the mainstay of the Magazine In the first 
                    number following his period as editor, this deserved tribute was paid to him: "With this
                    issue [June, 1913] the passes into new hands. To Mr. George S. Cottman, the founder of the magazine,
                    all persons interested in the study of our State's history are under a deep debt of
                    gratitude, for the self-sacrificing devotion with which, for more than eight years, he almost
                    single-handed carried on this enterprize." Anything from his pen is welcome.
            Reprints of articles published in the Magazine may be had by any contributor who
                    may desire them. Application should be made as soon as the paper has been accepted for publication.
                    Dr. R. C. Buley, the Business Manager, will furnish prices on request, and place orders for such a
                    number of copies of any reprint as may be wanted.
         
         
            Wanted
            We are sure that some of our readers can aid us to obtain some of the desired matter listed below.
                    The Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need
                    of copies of the publications mentioned in order to complete files. For the older and rarer numbers,
                    prices above the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired magazines or
                    other matter, will confer a great favor by writing to Dr. R. C. Buley, Business Manager of the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               The Indianian. This magazine was published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 1898 to 1906, six volumes in all. Wanted, complete file. Partial sets will be
                    considered.
            
               Indiana, Past and Present. This little, temporary periodical was published during
                    1914. Wanted, a complete file, and also an extra copy of Number 1.
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. Wanted issues of this quarterly for the years
                    1905-1912, inclusive. From one to two dollars per copy will be paid for separate number of these
                    years. Wanted also, the following issues of later years: March and December, 1926; double-number,
                    June-September, 1925; December, 1921; March, 1922.
         
      
   
