
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 23, Issue 3, pages 239-364. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:23+issue:3+year:1927&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Introduction and Progress of Methodism in Southeastern Indiana
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            (Continued)
            No. XXI
            1819–20.—As the conferences in the western country met in
                    the summer and autumn, the conference year embraced parts of two calendar years,
                    which I shall henceforth designate as I have done at the beginning of this
                    number; and if 1 had those which are published to prepare for the press, I
                    should do the same with them.
            This year Walter Graffiti was appointed to the 
                        Miami
                     district, 
                        Ohio
                     conference, and John P. Durbin to Greenville circuit, Arthur W.
                    Elliott and Samuel Brown to White Water, Allen Wiley and Benjamin T. Crouch to 
                        Oxford
                    , Benjamin Lawrence and Henry S. Fernandes to Lawrenceburg, Henry
                    Raker and William H. Raper to Madison, Samuel Hamilton to the Indiana district, 
                        Missouri
                    , conference, and Calvin W. Ruter and Job M. Baker to Silver Creek
                    circuit, John Stewart and Joseph Pownal to Blue River, and
                    John Shrader and John Everheart to Indian Creek.
            Walter Griffith has been favorably introduced in a former number as an energetic,
                    successful, and early traveling preacher on Enon, afterward 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit. He was now farther advanced in life, and his health on the
                    decline,  so that he was not as popular on
                    the district as he had been on circuits. He, however, passed reputably with the
                    people when able to attend his work.
            John P. Durbin (now Dr. Durbin, of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     conference), had traveled a part of the preceding year, under the
                    direction of a presiding elder, on a populous circuit in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Being young (nineteen or twenty years old) and zealous, he
                    preached in rather a boisterous manner, so that according to his statement to me
                    at a subsequent period, he was broken down when he was admitted on trial. His
                    appointment to the frontiers of 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, where the country was new, the roads muddy, and the
                    houses mostly cabins, would hardly seem to suit the views and feelings of one
                    who had been reared in the best society in the heart of 
                        Kentucky
                    ; but he regarded the appointment as Providential, for he once said
                    to me, it was among the best things Heaven ever did for him, to send him to that
                    new, and then obscure region of country.
            Owing to the sparseness of the settlements, his congregations were usually small,
                    and they met in private houses, and these mostly cabins, where it would have
                    been wholly incongruous to vociferate; in consequence of which he learned to
                    preach in a familiar, conversational tone, to the great improvement of his
                    health, and edification and delight of his people; for he was very popular and
                    useful among them, and had much success in his labors; for the Minutes show that the circuit rose from one hundred and fifty-four to
                    two hundred and eighty-six, being an increase of one hundred and thirty-two, so
                    that the circuit was nearly doubled in its membership. In the course of the
                    year, Durbin attended two of the quarterly meetings on 
                        Oxford
                     circuit, where he preached with great acceptability and usefulness;
                    for although he was but a boy, he had all the gravity and dignity of years; and
                    in these things the youth would compare to very great advantage with the present
                    D.D. At that time his reading and studies were almost exclusively theological,
                    and he could not see the propriety of studying even the English grammar; and it
                    was not until  sometime the next year that
                    he was made to feel the need of such study.
            The following circumstances was the means of changing his views on that subject.
                    One night he delivered an exhortation of moderate length, and a brother observed
                    to him afterward, that he had violated the rules of Grammar fourteen times in
                    his exhortation the night before. Sometime after I saw him and he related to me
                    the matter, and observed that while the brother was counting his violations of
                    the rules of Grammar, the exhortation did not take hold of the
                    brother's heart; and the consequence was a most intense application to
                    the study of Grammar. May not all public speakers here learn an important
                    lesson? While they suppose the hearers are listening to their performances, many
                    minds are much occupied in thinking about their improprieties of language.
            The White Water circuit had been left in a healthy state, and ripe for a general
                    revival, so that the preachers had nothing to do but to commence their labors in
                    a right spirit to insure a prosperous year. Elliott was then in the meridian of
                    life, and full of zeal and energy. Those who know him, are aware that the God of
                    nature has done more for him than for thousands of others. His person is portly,
                    his features agreeable, his voice, though capable of filling a ten acre field,
                    is harmonious and pleasant, his imagination brilliant, his feelings most ardent,
                    and his annunciation flowing and easy; so that he is a natural orator, and most
                    powerful preacher. Had he joined hands with his Maker, and given his mind that
                    culture and discipline, of which it was at once capable, he might have been one
                    of the first men in the western country, or indeed in any country. He has never
                    read extensively, but from moderate reading, much hearing, and considerable
                    thought, he has acquired quite a fund of varied knowledge, which he can use to
                    much advantage; for he has no inactive capital, but uses all he has to the best
                    purpose.
            I introduced Brown in a former number as a talented preacher, who had made a
                    favorable impression at a camp meeting four or five miles above 
                        Brookville
                    , at the close of the  preceding
                    year. These brethren began their work under advantageous circumstances, and
                    success crowned their labor in almost all parts of the circuit.
            The general government had made a large purchase of Indian territory in the
                    interior of the state, which was not yet brought into market; but the people had
                    commenced making settlements on it in many parts, particularly in what is now
                    the eastern part of 
                        Rush county
                    , and they began to call for preaching in what was then called the
                    New Purchase. As early as the fall of 1817, or the spring of 1818, there was a
                    considerable settlement formed on the small branches of what was called Little
                    Flat Rock, near where Judge Gregg now lives. Among these settlers there was a
                    local preacher by the name of James Montgomery who used to preach to the people
                    and formed a society considerable for numbers; and at their request the writer
                    visited them in the summer of 1818, and incorporated them with the circuit, and
                    left them on the plan. The distance from White Water to this preach-place was
                    ten or eleven miles, going and returning along the same trace. This, so far as I
                    know was the first spread of Methodism west of 
                        Fayette county
                    .
            This year these people prospered under the labors of the preachers on the
                    circuit, and perhaps branched into more than one society. The prosperity and
                    pleasantness of this year had but one drawback. Elliott being only a probationer
                    in the conference and Brown being an elder of some years' standing, he
                    thought his dignity invaded by being a junior preacher under a probationer, so
                    that the elder deemed it expedient to change him with the junior preacher on 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit. This little unpleasantness did not interrupt the work
                    which went on most gloriously so that the circuit increased from eight hundred
                    and seven to twelve hundred and six, being an increase of three hundred and
                    ninety-nine. The last quarterly meeting on the circuit was a good camp meeting,
                    which I had the privilege to attend, and enjoy the society of many friends, with
                    whom I had labored the year before. The presiding elder was not present from
                    some cause; I suppose sickness.
            
            Wiley and Crouch began their work on 
                        Oxford
                     circuit, at a camp meeting appointed the previous year. When Wiley
                    arrived on the ground, he found his friend Bigelow superintending the meeting;
                    but shortly after they met, Bigelow, in his good-natured way, said, I surrender
                    the charge; but he labored faithfully, and counseled wisely. The meeting was
                    medium in its usefulness and success. The preachers endeavored to begin their
                    labors in the proper spirit and look for success; but they did not find a people
                    possessing the same warm-heartedness and zeal as the people whom they had left
                    on the White Water circuit; neither did they find so many and so efficient local
                    preachers as they had been co-operating with the year before.
            The indefatigable Bigelow had been two years on the circuit, and things had
                    reached their zenith, and languor had begun to ensue, and many Church
                    difficulties sprang up. One local preacher was expelled and another was
                    silenced, who withdrew, and a considerable number of private members were
                    disowned; so that the year was one of considerable sadness. This state of things
                    being new to the preacher in charge, it had a most unhappy effect on his mind,
                    by inducing feelings of discouragement, in consequence of which it became a very
                    great cross to him to preach, particularly at popular meetings, so that he
                    evaded preaching on such occasions whenever he could do so by any means; and
                    usually he could prevail on his superiors in office to excuse him. This
                    unpleasant state of feeling, and unfortunate course, lasted more than five
                    years; so that he never will be the preacher that he might have been. Although
                    the local preachers were not equal to the White Water circuit preachers in
                    number, talents, zeal, and usefulness, there were some excellent and useful men
                    among them. There was one by the name of Aaron Powers who had been as deeply and
                    wickedly sunk in infidelity as ever Thomas Paine was. By some extraordinary
                    interposition of 
                        Providence
                     and grace, he was powerfully converted, and became a preacher of
                    some talents, much zeal, and considerable usefulness. But, O, the instability of
                    man! He is now a Mormon! From the time of his conversion he was somewhat of an
                    enthusiast,  and the creature of his
                    feelings. He professed the blessing of perfect love, and strengthened the hearts
                    of many; but we know there is no measure of grace in this life which men may not
                    lose. I presume the Mormons have never been able to fleece him much, in the way
                    of property, for he always knew how to take care of this. Early this year, James
                    Conwell moved into the circuit. He had been recently licensed to preach, and was
                    somewhat useful; but his astonishing influence and usefulness, which
                    subsequently characterized him, had not then been greatly developed.
            The preachers found a warm friend and wise counselor in Moses Crume, who was then
                    superannuated, and living in 
                        Oxford
                    . After a lapse of twenty-seven years, the writer, on looking over
                    the unpleasant difficulties and painful events of that year, feels clear of
                    having wronged anybody; but with his present knowledge and experience he thinks
                    he might have prevented some of them and managed others to better advantage.
                    With all the discouragements, the circuit improved some; for it rose from seven
                    hundred and ten to seven hundred and eighty-one, being an increase of
                    seventy-one.
            The last quarterly meeting was a camp meeting, at which some good was done. The
                    presiding elder was not present, but Elliott from White Water, and Durbin from
                    Greenville were in attendance, and preached to good advantage, particularly
                    Durbin, who preached twice on Sabbath. It was indiscreet, on my part, to put
                    forward, so much, any man so young as he, but I had confidence in his humility
                    and piety, or I would not have done so. Samuel West, from the 
                        Hamilton
                     station, was present and preached with ability; and 
                        Lawrence
                    , from the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit, preached well. This year the writer had a valuable horse
                    killed by the kick of another horse, which the people generously replaced by
                    another of equal value, but ministerial support was very limited.
            This was the second year that 
                        Lawrence
                     was on the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit; and although his want of variety was objectionable to the
                    more intelligent congregations, his many excellencies made him still popular and
                    useful in his charge. His colleague, Fernandes, was a young man, just received
                    on  trial. He was a very small man in body;
                    and at that time his mind was not much improved; and had it not been for the
                    goodness of the man, he would have been a very scant pattern for a minister. His
                    humility, modesty, piety, and fervor, gave him the hearts of the people, and the
                    Lord blessed his labors, so that revivals commenced in several parts of the
                    circuit by his instrumentality before he was removed to White Water circuit,
                    where he was not quite so useful and successful as he was before his removal. He
                    lived to improve in gifts and grace, so that he occupied a respectable grade in
                    the Christian ministry. I would refer the reader to the interesting account of
                    this brother in the Western Christian Advocate written by
                    brother Finley. How Brown succeeded on 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , I know not. The country on the west ends of what are now 
                        Manchester
                     and Wilmington circuits was rapidly filling up, so that the circuit
                    enlarged toward the west. The circuit had a good share of prosperity; for it
                    increased from five hundred and seventy-one to seven hundred and thirteen, being
                    an increase of one hundred and forty-two.
            The preachers on 
                        Madison
                     circuit were industrious, persevering men, who greatly enlarged
                    their field of labor. The circuit was extended westward, so as to embrace much
                    of the territory now in 
                  Paris,
                            Vernon
               , the whole of
                    Canaan, Moorfield, 
                        Vevay
                    , and perhaps a part of Versailles, and certainly part of Wilmington
                    circuits. In looking over some old plans, I find the circuit contained
                    thirty-five preaching places in the fall of 1820, when William M. P. Quinn and I
                    v-cnt to it as the successors of Baker and Raper. Baker was a man of feeble
                    constitution, so that the charge of such a circuit must have made its labors a
                    heavy burden to him. Raper had just been received on trial, and was a man of
                    vigorous health and fervent in spirit, and was able to bear the labor with more
                    ease, as he had not the special care of all the societies. Baker was acceptable
                    to the people, and Raper was very popular for a new beginner in the itinerant
                    work, and even then he gave some indications of future eminence; but few,
                    however, expected him to obtain the standing in the community which he has since
                    attained. These brethren were  faithful to
                    God and his cause, and they had success in winning souls, and in building up
                    those already won. The circuit had an addition of one hundred and twenty-nine,
                    for it grew from seven hundred and thirty-two to eight hundred and sixty-one.
            The 
                        Ohio
                     conference met this year in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , early in August, and there were three of the superintendents
                    present, M'Kendree, George, and Roberts, George being the regular
                    president. The superintendents represented the 
                        Missouri
                     conference as much in need of preachers. The conference them
                    embraced most of Indiana, all of 
                  Illinois, Missouri
               , and 
                        Arkansas
                    . Volunteers were called for, when several consented to go; among
                    whom was Samuel Hamilton, now again of the 
                        Ohio
                     conference. Hamilton, for a man of his age, was popular and useful,
                    and was deemed by the bishop presiding at the 
                        Missouri
                     conference a suitable man to be placed on the Indiana district,
                    which then embraced the whole of Indiana, except what was in the 
                        Ohio
                     conference. Hamilton remained four years on the district, and was
                    exceedingly popular in the 
                        Grant
                    , and so remained until he was placed on the Charlestown circuit, a
                    part of his former field. Many of the people were weak enough to expect him to
                    preach as strong and popular sermons at their small week-day appointments as he
                    had formerly preached at their crowded quarterly meetings, and to manifest as
                    much zeal in serving a few as he had formerly done in serving many. Under such
                    circumstances, it is not in the power of man to meet public expectation; and the
                    consequence was, he fell off woefully in the estimation of his charge, and he
                    had an unpleasant year. It is an unwise arrangement for any useful presiding
                    elder, at the end of four years on a district, to be appointed to any field in
                    its bounds, for he cannot meet public expectation.
            Ruter and Baker, who were appointed to Silker Creek circuit, were both
                    transferred from 
                        Ohio
                    , and had just been admitted into full connection, and ordained
                    deacons. Ruter was then a vigorous young man, and full of ardor in all his
                    undertakings. Baker was also young and popular, and calculated to do good; but I
                    have an impression on my mind that Baker 
                    was removed from the circuit to fill a vacancy elsewhere. Ruter has frequently
                    told me all about the matter, but my recollection is at fault on this subject.
                    If Baker was removed, I think he remained awhile on the circuit.
            The preachers commenced their work soon after conference, for they were single
                    men, and could remove their all in their saddle-bags, and behind their saddles.
                    They found a warmhearted people, who received them kindly, and held up their
                    hands in the work. There were also several useful local preachers, the most
                    prominent of whom were James Garner, mentioned in a former number, and Cornelius
                    Ruddle, who united with the traveling preachers to help on the good cause.
            Sometime in the month of October, there was a camp meeting in what was called
                    Jacob's settlement, near where a meeting-house now stands called New
                    Chapel, a mile or two from the Ohio river, in the rear of
                    Utica. In the beginning of the meeting the weather was very unpleasant, so much
                    so, that some snow fell, and the people had to build large log fires, to keep
                    themselves from suffering, and the prospects of the meeting were gloomy; but
                    after a day or two, the atmosphere began to grow more bland, and the religious
                    temperature was equally mollified, and the work of God went on most gloriously,
                    and many souls were converted. The work thus happily begun lasted all all
                    winter, and the revelations of the judgment alone can tell how much good was
                    done. Quite a number of the converts became preachers, some local and some
                    traveling, a few of whom have fallen in the work, some far from home and the
                    place of their conversion.
            From this revival the work spread almost all round the circuit; and when I went
                    to that circuit, six years afterward, it was yet a delightful subject of
                    conversation among the people, and they seemed to regard it as an important era
                    in the history of Methodism in the 
                        Grant
                    . This revival was a dear one to Ruter; for his soul became absorbed
                    in it, that he labored almost night and day, far beyond the capabilities of his
                    athletic body, and the consequence was that his noble constitution was wrecked
                    to be repaired no more. It is true, he has seemed very well since and a stranger
                    would have supposed  at sometimes that he
                    was the most vigorous member of the Indiana conference, but this seeming vigor
                    was deceptive; for at any time a little exposure and extra exertion would have
                    prostrated him. At this time he stands among the superannuated members of the
                    conference, and there is little hope that he will ever be able to go forth in
                    the regular ranks of itinerancy, as it is feared he is the subject of an
                    appalling and incurable disease. Sad must be the days of a broken-down traveling
                    preacher, for though he may and ought to share in the sympathies and prayers of
                    his brethren, the fact that he cannot go forth with them makes him weep. Well:
                        
                        Earth has no sorrow, which Heaven cannot cure.
                    
            
            So great was the success this year, that the circuit rose from five hundred and
                    sixty to nine hundred and twelve, being an increase of three hundred and
                    fifty-two, which was the largest increase in any circuit, in proportion to the
                    numbers in the beginning of the year, except Greenville; for although White
                    Water increased forty-seven more than Silver Creek, it had nearly one-third more
                    in the commencement of the year, so that the ratio of increase on White Water
                    was not so great as that on Silver Creek.
            John Stewart, the preacher in charge of Blue River circuit,
                    was also a volunteer transfer from 
                        Ohio
                    , of the same age in the ministry as Ruter and Baker. He traveled
                    five years in Indiana as a member of the 
                        Missouri
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     conferences, and then returned to 
                        Ohio
                    . He was a man of respectable talents and usefulness. He still
                    continues in the work, and is now on the Kanawha district, 
                        Ohio
                     conference; and, I trust, is doing much good.
            Joseph Pownal has been introduced before as a good and useful preacher, but this
                    year we part with him as a traveling preacher, for he located in the fall. He
                    was received on trial in the fall of 1814, and traveled six years in different
                    parts of the work, and then located. Whether he married before or after his
                    location, I do not know; but when I became personally acquainted with him in the
                    fall of 1826, he was a man of a family, and lived about four miles above 
                        Columbus
                    , the  county town of
                            
                  Bartholomew county, Ia.
               , where he owned mill
                    property. He was a man of a kind heart, which I felt forcibly the first time I
                    ever saw him. That year, conference met in 
                        Bloomington
                    , and many of us had traveled all day through the hilly wilderness
                    which then intervened between 
                        Bloomington
                     and 
                        Columbus
                    , with only here and there a house on our route, When we drew near
                    brother Pownal's, brother Strange, who knew him, led the way. Never
                    shall I forget the smiling countenance which indicated the gladness of heart
                    with which he received us weary pilgrims, although there were enough of us to
                    scare a parsimonious man. Two years afterward, when I was placed on the 
                        Madison
                     district, 
                        Columbus
                     circuit became a part of my charge, when my acquaintance became
                    more intimate with brother Pownal, and lasted until near his death. It seems to
                    me that I preached his funeral sermon, but if I did, my recollection of the fact
                    is not vivid. Me was a most amiable man, and very passable preacher, and while
                    he traveled he was a strict and good disciplinarian. I think his death occurred
                    in the summer of 1832, so that if he only began to preach a short time before he
                    commenced traveling, he was a preacher eighteen years; one-third of which was
                    spent in the itinerancy. He was a man of feeble constitution, and was not well
                    able to do the work of a traveling preacher. Doubtless, he rests in peace.
            The vicissitudes which marked the Blue River circuit that
                    year, and what new fields were occupied, are unknown to the writer. He, however,
                    finds on the Minutes an increase of eighty-three, being an
                    enlargement from five hundred and six to five hundred and eighty-nine.
            John Shrader was the preacher in charge on the Indian Creek circuit, and he had
                    for his colleague Job Everheart, who had once been a member of the 
                        Baltimore
                     conference, and had located. I suppose he was readmitted this year
                    into the 
                        Missouri
                     conference, and located at its close. I would say more in reference
                    to him, but he will appear before us again in the 
                        White Water county
                    . Shrader was zealous and successful, and Everheart was sometimes up
                    and sometimes down, and consequently not calculated to do much good. How large
                         a scope of country round about Corydon
                    was embraced in this circuit I do not know.
            So limited is my information concerning Blue River and
                    Indian Creek circuits, that I have been tempted, more than once to cross the
                    Knobs no more; but I have still been hoping that some person on the ground would
                    furnish me the necessary information, to give some interest to this region.
                    Should I continue to write, I shall arrive at a period when I shall give more
                    information from personal knowledge, obtained when I was stationed in 
                        New Albany
                    . All my information concerning this circuit this year is derived
                    from the Minutes. From this source of information, I learn
                    there was a pretty good increase on the circuit, for it advanced from four
                    hundred and eighty-six to six hundred and thirty-seven, being an addition of one
                    hundred and fifty-one; which was doing well in a country that could not have
                    been densely populated twenty-six years ago.
            The reader will perceive that this was a year of considerable prosperity to the
                    Church in the region which I am traveling over, for the whole increase on the
                    eight circuits was fourteen hundred and fifty-nine. We, however, then had not
                    the same difficulty to swell our numbers that we have now in this old part of
                    the country; for most of the persons who were converted remained with us; but
                    now the inviting country to the west and north induces so many to move, that we
                    dismiss three or four by letter for every one that we receive in that way.
            ALLEN WILEY.
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , May 15, 1846.
            P. S. Since the seventeenth number was published, Brother Caldwell, of the 
                        New Washington
                     circuit, writes me that a Brother Andrew Mitchell informs him that
                    in 1801, Bishop M'Kendree, then presiding elder on the 
                        Kentucky
                     district, crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     in a canoe near where 
                        Westport
                     now is, and first formed the Gassaway or 
                        Salem
                     meeting-house class, on the east side of Fourteen Mile creek; and
                    that he went from thence to Prather's, near Utica, and formed another
                         class; and then continued on to 
                        Louisville
                    , and formed another class, and then returned the same route to the
                    place of starting, on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side of the river. Mitchell's statement and
                    Robinson's statement, to me, can be easily reconciled, by supposing the
                    classes, organized by the Bishop, became in whole or in part dissolved, and were
                    reorganized by the persons named in the seventeenth number.
            A. W.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, June 5, 1846.
            No. XXII
            1820–21—Walter Griffith was continued on the 
                        Miami
                     district and Benjamin Lawrence was appointed to Greenville circuit,
                    James Jones to White Water, Samuel Baker and William H. Raper to Oxford, John P.
                    Durbin and James Col-lord to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Allen Wiley and William M. P. Quinn to 
                        Madison
                    , Samuel Hamilton was continued on the Indiana district, 
                        Missouri
                     conference, and Calvin W. Ruter again sent to 
                        Charleston
                     circuit, having William Cravens for his colleague, John Scripps and
                    Samuel Glaze were sent to Blue River, and John Shrader to
                    Corydon.
            This year, I know but little about Greenville circuit, only I find it was
                    supplied with that aceptable preacher, Benjamin Lawrence, who had an increase of
                    fifty-four. James Jones, who had been for sometime a useful local preacher, had
                    just been received on trial, and was sent alone to the large and important White
                    Water circuit which was a matter of surprise to all of us who knew that field of
                    labor; but we afterward learned that the plan was for the presiding elder to
                    employ Augustus Jocelyn, a local preacher of much experience, (as he had
                    formerly traveled a number of years) to take charge of the circuit. Jocelyn,
                    after his location, became bewildered with Arianism, or some kindred error; in
                    consequence of which, he lost his piety, and became separated from the Church. I
                    have heard him say the commencement of his downfall was caused by volunteering
                    to go to a very poor  circuit, to which the
                    preacher appointed refused to go. Jocelyn having a heavy family, became so
                    straitened in his temporalities, that he was necessitated to locate. He was two
                    or three times united with and separated from the Church. His intellectual
                    powers were of a very superior order. Indeed, I have my doubts whether I ever
                    knew his equal in this respect; but with all his mental strength, he was a very
                    child in his knowledge of men and the ways of the world, and had all the
                    instability of a child. Sometimes I have said he was the weakest strong man, and
                    the strongest weak man, that I ever knew.
            He was a very able, and sometimes a powerful preacher. He was a good
                    disciplinarian, and kept his circuit in excellent order. So far as I know, he
                    was the first man on the circuit in the west who strictly observed the rule in
                    receiving probationers into full membership. Formerly, when persons had been in
                    society six months, if they were moral, and attended the means of grace, they
                    were regarded as members in full standing as a matter of course. At the end of
                    the year, he furnished his successor with a list of the probationers in every
                    class, which list gave the time when each joined on trial. His successor, who
                    was the writer, was pleased with his plan, and adopted it, and recommended it to
                    others, and by degrees we have become more regular in receiving members into
                    Church.
            Jones labored hard and with considerable success, and how it was that there was a
                    decrease of one hundred and thirty-seven under the labors of such men, I know
                    not, unless the great ingathering of the preceding year reacted under the strict
                    administration of Jocelyn. Near the close of the year, there was a camp meeting
                    on the ground near Dod-dridge's meeting-house, which was attended with
                    much power; for I think I have been told there were about one hundred
                    conversions. Here it was that James Conwell's great revival powers
                    began to be fully known.
            
               
                        Oxford
                     circuit was well supplied, with SamueI Baker and William H. Raper
                    as its preachers. Samuel Baker had been four years in the work, and filled two
                    more charges after the  present year, and
                    then died in great peace. His preaching talents were only medium, but his
                    ministerial fidelity was great; and to the amount of his gifts great was his
                    usefulness. In the first volume of the bound Minutes, page
                    474, the reader will find a short account of this worthy brother. He had been
                    appointed to 
                        Milford
                     circuit a few days before his death. Raper I have before mentioned
                    as zealous and successful, and he increased in these things. These brethren were
                    much united in spirit and labor the two years they traveled together, for the
                    next year they were appointed together on the 
                        Miami
                     circuit. A considerable amount of prosperity was realized this year
                    on the circuit, for there was an increase of one hundred and sixty-four. In what
                    parts of the circuit they had the most interesting revival, I am not informed.
                    In 
                        Oxford
                     and its vicinity there was a gracious work, when Nehemiah B.
                    Griffith and John A. Eaughman were converted.
            Griffith labored as a traveling preacher for a number of years with uncommon zeal
                    and success, and finished his course in the north of Indiana in the summer of
                    1834. Eaughman is still traveling as a member of the 
                        Michigan
                     conference, and has filled many important charges in the Church. He
                    has always been popular and useful. The brethren in the town of 
                        Oxford
                     commenced building a good brick church in the fall of 1818 or
                    summer of 1819, but before the roof was on the wind blew down a part of the
                    wall, which increased their expenses, so that they had hard struggling to
                    complete it. The year I was on the circuit, we occupied it in partly an
                    unfinished state; but this year, I presume, it was entirely finished, and its
                    debts paid. This, and one or two log houses, were all that were then on the
                    circuit; and I suppose for some years to come.
            I refer the reader to the last number for some account of Durbin, who was now in
                    charge of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit. Collord, his colleague, had just been received on trial.
                    He was a good, sensible man, but his voice was not well adapted to forcible
                    preaching; he, however, passed acceptably with the people, for his good sense
                    and piety were properly estimated by them. He traveled a few years and located,
                    and  moved to the city of 
                        New York
                    , with a view to follow his trade, which was printing. He obtained
                    the place of head or principal printer in the Methodist Book Concern, which he
                    has held for many years with honor to himself and profit to the Concern. Durbin
                    and Collord had some success; but I find an increase of only twenty-two members
                    on the circuit. Being on a contiguous circuit, Durbin and myself met often, as
                    our rounds came near together, so that we formed an intimate acquaintance and a
                    strong friendship. Durbin's people, as I personally know, loved him
                    most ardently, and he served them faithfully.
            In the spring of 1820, the General Conference had passed a rule constituting a
                    local conference in each presiding elder's district, consisting of all
                    the local preachers. The first conference for the 
                        Miami
                     district was held in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit, on the Second Bottom, about one mile from 
                        New Lawrenceburg
                    , in August, 1821.
            The conference was held at a camp meeting, superintended by Durbin. There were
                    many preachers present, local and traveling; for the presiding elder had told
                    all the preachers in charge of circuits to be present, to represent their local
                    brethren before the conference. There was much good and popular preaching at the
                    meeting. Dr. Ruter was in attendance, as he had been appointed secretary by the
                    presiding elder, and he preached a very popular and impressive sermon; but the
                    most impressive thing which I heard, was an exhortation delivered by Joel
                    Havens, a plain and measurably illiterate man. The meeting had a good effect on
                    the public mind.
            Wiley and Quinn were early at their work, and commenced on a circuit with
                    thirty-five appointments; but the action of the previous General Conference, and
                    the presiding elder on the Indiana district lessened their labors. The General
                    Conference had made the dividing line between the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Missouri
                     conferences commence at the town of 
                        Madison
                     and run due north, so that ten appointments on the 
                        Madison
                     circuit fell in the bounds of the 
                        Missouri
                     Conference. After  the
                    preachers had gone two rounds, Hamilton, the presiding elder, sent old Father
                    Garner to take those appointments, and extend the work north and west, so as to
                    make an entire neu circuit called Flat Rock, after the name of a water course
                    which unites with Blue River a few miles above Coliambus,
                    the county town of 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , Ia.
            
               Blue River and Flat Rock, united, make the Driftwood Fork of
                        White River. This Blue river is
                    not the one after which the Blue River circuit, mentioned
                    in these numbers, is named. The Minutes show that Garner
                    reported, the next fall, a circuit of three hundred members. The many difficult
                    streams of water, and the intervening flat and muddy land, must have made it a
                    field of hard labor to a man of Garner's age to travel that very
                    difficult winter; but he never thought of anything but perseverance in every
                    good undertaking. I noticed him at some length in a former number, as a useful
                    local preacher on the 
                        Grant
                    , or I would say more now. The then Flat Rock circuit embraced the
                    territory now included in 
                  Paris,
                            Vernon, Columbus
               , Edinburg, and 
                        Milford
                     circuits, and perhaps some more territory now in Shelbyville
                    circuit.
            The preachers on 
                        Madison
                     circuit had rather an unpleasant year. The society in 
                        Madison
                     was in a most unhappy state of contention; and some other societies
                    were in a similar state. Quinn had recently married in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where his wife remained. She became sickly, and the consequence
                    was some sixty or more disappointments, and finally he wholly retired from the
                    work, some three months before conference. These disappointments were the more
                    unfortunate, as Quinn was a talented and popular young man, of whom the people
                    were very fond. His greatest lack was that of deep piety, which was very
                    manifest in his public devotions; for although he could talk most fluently to
                    men, there was hardly a member on the circuit who was not more gifted in prayer
                    than he was. O, how hard it is for an undevout man to converse with God in
                    prayer! The conference dropped him; and what has become of him, I know not. From
                    the Minutes there  appears
                    to be a decrease of one hundred and sixty-four; but most of these went with the
                    ten appointments to Flat Rock circuit.
            In the winter of this year, the writer took in 
                        Versailles
                    , the county town of 
                        Ripley county
                    , which had been organized only a few years; and he found a small
                    and feeble class, which has continued, but with many ebbings and flowings. I
                    believe there is now a pretty good society in the town, and a tolerably good
                    brick meeting-house; but the religious influence is not what it ought to be.
                    Near the close of the year, there was a good camp meeting in the vicinity of the
                    present small village, after which Canaan circuit is named. The preacher in
                    charge was able to preach some on Friday, which was his last for near three
                    months, and he had been taken with the fever the Monday previous which lasted,
                    in all, about three months, with occasional intermission in which he traveled
                    hundreds of miles. Sometimes he would ride alone much exhausted. The presiding
                    elder attended this meeting but was unable to preach, and had not been able to
                    attend the two preceding quarterly meetings. This year closed his itinerant
                    life; for he was superannuated at conference, and died the next summer at
                            
                  Xenia, Ohio
               . On page 400 of the
                    bound Minutes, volume first, the reader will find some account
                    of him. The reader must be aware that Wiley had a pretty hard time on a heavy
                    four-weeks' circuit, without a presiding elder or colleague most of the
                    time.
            Samuel Hamilton still remained popular and useful on the Indiana district, to
                    which he was appointed the second year.
            Calvin W. Ruter was returned to the 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, as it was now called, in rather feeble health, in
                    consequence of the excessive labors of the preceding year, and the Church, after
                    such a glorious revival, requiring much labor and care to sustain the work.
            This year, William Cravens, from 
                        Virginia
                    , who had been a local preacher of long standing, and of much
                    notoriety, was received on trial by the 
                        Missouri
                     conference, and placed on the circuit with Ruter. Cravens was a man
                    of respectable talents, and possessed a world of wit, and good common sense  and was one of the most undaunted men that
                    ever lived. He abhorred sin of all sorts with a perfect abhorrence, but more
                    particularly the sins of drunkenness and negro slavery. Against these he
                    declaimed with a zeal which made the wicked quail before him, even in the
                    aristocratic parts of 
                        Virginia
                    . It was natural to suppose that when he came to a free state, he
                    would cease his declamations against the sin of slavery; but no. Some had their
                    slaves hired out in slave states, and were yearly drawing their wages. These
                    were made to feel agony under his withering rebukes. Many more had sold their
                    slaves, and had come to Indiana and had purchased homes for themselves and
                    children with the price of their slaves, and were now zealous declaimers against
                    slavery. These were denounced by him as blood-stained hypocrites, who were worse
                    than the actual slaveholder, who was now holding slaves, and treating them
                    kindly. He seldom preached a sermon without making all who made, sold, or drank
                    ardent spirits feel uneasy. Ruter labored as well as he could, and Cravens was
                    ardent and powerful; but with all their toil, they had only thirty-three of an
                    increase; but doubtless many of those who had joined the preceding year were
                    converted and greatly improved in their religious knowledge and experience.
            John Scripps, who was appointed to the Blue River circuit,
                    was an Englishman by birth who by close application, acquired a considerable
                    fund of useful knowledge, which he used in the cause of his Master for many
                    years. His travels were extensive in Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Missouri
               , and 
                        Arkansas
                    . He was several times secretary of his conference, and was
                    sometimes in circuits, and sometimes in the station and district work. He has
                    been many years a superannuated preacher of the 
                        Missouri
                     conference, and lives in 
                        Illinois
                    , unless he has recently died. His talents and usefulness were
                    considerable.
            Samuel Glaze, the colleague of Scripps, was admitted into full connection in the 
                        Ohio
                     conference in the summer of 1818, and transferred to the 
                        Missouri
                     conference. He traveled until the fall of 1823, when he was
                    superannuated and died in 1824. He was a good man, somewhat useful. At the
                    conference after  his death, Bishop Roberts
                    preached his funeral sermon at the request of the conference, and was then asked
                    for a copy of the sermon for publication; but I suppose the copy was never
                    furnished. There is a short account of this brother in the first volume of the
                    bound Minutes, page 474. The circuit had some prosperity; for
                    I find an increase of one hundred and three.
            The name of Indian Creek circuit was superseded this year by that of Corydon,
                    which remains to this day; but the circuit is much curtailed, for there have
                    been detached from it, 
                        New Albany
                    , now containing two stations, Greenville, Elizabeth, and
                    Fredericksburg circuits. John Shrader, who was the preacher, was quite a popular
                    and successful preacher. He had been admitted on trial by the 
                        Tennessee
                     conference in the fall of 1813, and continued faithful in the work
                    until the fall of 1821, when he located, and settled in the lower part of
                    Indiana, commonly called the Pocket, from its shape, between the 
                        Ohio
                     and the Wabash river.. He still lives there,
                    and is yet a very popular and useful local preacher. The only time I ever saw
                    him was in the summer of 1818, when he went to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , to pilot Bishop M'Kendree to the 
                        Missouri
                     conference, which met at Mt. Zion
                    meeting-house, at or near the Forks of White river, in
                    Indiana. His circuit had some prosperity this year; for the Minutes report seventy-five of an increase.
            When we come to sum up the doings of this year, we find it was not so prosperous
                    as the former year, for on some of the circuits there was a decrease, and on all
                    the nine circuits noticed there was only an increase of four hundred and fifty;
                    yet the work was continually spreading into the new settlements, which were
                    rapidly forming in different parts of the state.
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , May 21, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, June 19, 1846.
            
            No. XXIII
            1821–22—This year Alexander Cummins was on the 
                        Miami
                     district, James Collord on the Greenville circuit, Allen Wley and
                    James T. Wells on White Water, Moses Crume and Xichard Brandriff on 
                        Oxford
                    , Henry Baker on 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , James Jones and James Rlurry on 
                        Madison
                    , Samuel Hamilton on the Indiana district, James Amstrong on 
                        Charleston
                     circuit, George R. Nester on Flat Rock, John Wallace and Joseph
                    Kinkaid on Blue River, and Job M. Baker on Corydon.
            Alexander Cummins, the presiding elder on the 
                        Miami
                     district, was a lovely man and a good minister. He was a very calm
                    and self-possessed man, who managed the affairs of the Church with deliberation
                    and prudence. He fell on evil times, when the Radical controversy was convulsing
                    the Church, in some measure, from the center to the circumference of the land;
                    but finally did her little or no harm. With all his mildness, he was drawn into
                    painful collision with some of his former most warm and devoted friends; but
                    although he had a mind and heart to appreciate and love a friend, he loved the
                    Church of God better, and continued firm in his opposition to all the
                    mischievous innovations which many desired to introduce in her government. He
                    was at this time in feeble health, but continued to render all the service which
                    his enfeebled constitution would permit.
            James Collord, who was on Greenville circuit, was noticed in the last
                    year's account of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit. He was a faithful, good man, and had considerable success
                    in his charge, for he had an increase of eighty members, which was doing well on
                    a circuit which was still a wilderness compared with many other parts of the
                    work; for 
                  Preble county, Ohio
               , and 
                  Randolph county, Ia.
               , were not then densely populated.
            When Wiley and Wells came to White Water circuit, it was a very large one; but
                    there were two new arrangements made by the presiding elder, which much
                    curtailed it. The first was to make 
                        Brookville
                     a station, at the request of the people, and place in it Augustus
                    Jocelyn, who had been employed by the elder to travel with Baker on 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    
                     circuit. Jocelyn now entered on his work
                    with much zeal and some effect among the people, among whom his talents gave him
                    much influence. By laboring much with his own hands, and influencing others, the
                    meeting-house, which had been reared and inclosed a year or two before, was
                    finished, which was the first Methodist meeting-house built of brick in the
                    White Water valley.
            I have before mentioned that the New Purchase west of the White Water circuit was
                    now in rapid progress of settlement, and many new places wanted preaching, which
                    it was impossible to supply, and do the regular work on the circuit; hence the
                    presiding elder, after consultation with the writer, concluded to send 
                        Wells
                     to hunt up all the new places which he could find, and connect them
                    with the nine appointments west of White Water, and form a new circuit to be
                    called 
                        Connersville
                    . After 
                        Wells
                     had accomplished this work of formation, he returned to the old
                    circuit, and Cummins employed John Havens, a local preacher, to travel the new
                    circuit; and such was the increase of the work, that it became expedient to
                    employ another preacher before conference. The preacher employed was David J.
                    Cos, a local preacher in 
                        Oxford
                     circuit. Cos was a man of good mind, and superior acquirements, but
                    he was a very tame preacher, and never passed with the people for his real
                    worth. He will come before us again, or I would say more now. Wiley and Wells
                    continued to labor as well as circumstances would permit. Wells was a man of
                    more than ordinary mind, and his acquirements were considerable; but such were
                    his peculiarities, that he was rather an encumbrance than a benefit to any
                    circuit which he traveled. This statement would be corroborated by every
                    presiding elder and colleague with whom he was associated. Had he been a man
                    with a bad heart, and immoral life, we could soon have disposed of him; but he
                    was one of the most conscientious and prayerful men whom I have ever been
                    acquainted. He continued to travel until the summer of 1825, when he located.
                    The last I knew of him, he was traveling extensively in Indiana as a temperance
                    agent and lecturer. What has become of him since he has ceased  to be agent, I know not. He was then the same
                    talented, sincere, but singular man, that he was when I was intimate with him.
            This year, the second local conference was held on the White Water circuit, at a
                    camp meeting contiguous to Doddridge's meeting-house, named in a former
                    number. There were many preachers present many of whom were men of superior
                    talents; for the district extended from the Little Miami to the western wilds of
                    Indiana, and down the 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        Madison
                    . Very many of the men who were then prominent are gone the way of
                    all the earth; but some of them still continue to bless the rising generation.
                    The camp meeting, at which the conference met, was a good one, and there was a
                    number of accessions to the Church, several of whom, however, were not found by
                    my successor; and the consequence was that ever after I refused to report the
                    numbers that joined at camp meeting at the close of the year. This course, I
                    think, has now become the general practice; but the general practice formerly
                    was, to report all such in taking the numbers. It is strange that we did not
                    always see that none should be numbered but such as had their names on the class
                    papers, and I should add, on the Church books; but we then had no Church books
                    and we have too few now, although the Indiana conference has taken action on the
                    subject, and resolved that all the preachers should make Church registers.
            This was a year of considerable falling off, yet the Minutes
                    report twelve hundred and thirty-one, being an increase of one hundred and
                    sixty-two; but it should be remembered that the numbers for the new circuit were
                    included in the number for White Water circuit, as 
                        Connersville
                     circuit was not then known on the Minutes. In
                    giving an account of the new circuit, I might have noticed that there was a good
                    camp meeting on it near the close of the year.
            That the preachers of the present day may know how we used to fare, I will make a
                    statement of a few facts. I then had a wife and seven children, and my entire
                    receipts for house rent, fuel, table expenses, and quarterage, amounted  this year to seventy-six dollars. Then
                    there were no estimates for house rent, etc., and quarterage for children; so
                    that if there were a married and single preacher on the circuit, the collections
                    were divided into three parts, and the married man received two parts and the
                    single man one; or if one preacher had ten children and the other none, they
                    both shared equal when they were both married men.
            Crume, who was in charge of 
                        Oxford
                     circuit, has been portrayed at some length, so that I need add no
                    more here. Richard Brandriff had just been admitted, and was a modest, lovely
                    youth, who traveled usefully a number of years, and was many more years on the
                    superannuated list, and so remained until the fall of 1843, when he withdrew
                    from the Church; and the last I heard of poor Richard, he was in what is very
                    improperly called, the "True Wesleyan Church," the
                    organization effected by Scott, Lee and others, who erroneously supposed the
                    Methodist Episcopal Church to be pro-slavery. 
                        Oxford
                     circuit, this year, had a decrease of seventy-seven.
            After the presiding elder took Jocelyn away from Law-Penceburg circuit, Baker was
                    alone; but I think James Murry was removed some time in the year from 
                        Madison
                     circuit to help Baker, and Joel Havens mentioned before, employed
                    to help Jones. How well the people on 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit liked their preachers, and the preachers the people, I do
                    not know. From the Minutes there appears to have been a
                    decrease of twenty-two on the circuit. Brother Baker was then in feeble health,
                    and unable to labor with much vigor.
            Somewhere about this time the present Methodist meetinghouse was built in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , and was then thought to be a spacious house for the size of the
                    town, and the state of society in it. That house has long been inadequate to the
                    wants of the community, and all strangers, especially strange ministers, feel
                    disappointed when they see and contrast the size and appearance of the house
                    with the size of the town, and wealth of citizens. This disappointment, however,
                    is not to last longer; for if 
                        Providence
                     favors our people in that charge, we shall soon have a house which
                    will do honor to  the Church and the town.
                    The house is to be on High street. in a central part of the town, and it is
                    estimated that the ground and house will cost nine thousand dollars, or more,
                    and will meet the wants of the population for some years to come.
            Jones now entered on his second year's itinerancy, and he did so with
                    much zeal and success. His colleague was a young man of moderate talents, who
                    had been two years in the work. When he had traveled two years, his friends had
                    much difficulty to obtain his reception, and must have failed, if his success in
                    the introduction of Methodism into a town where many talented men had failed had
                    not enlisted James B. Fin-ley in his favor. Finley used his utmost exertion, and
                    succeeded in his reception; but he could not secure his election to
                    deacons' orders.
            Murry was a sincere man, and was to some extent useful; but his want of talents
                    was an incubus on him. The preachers labored in earnest, and the work prospered
                    in their hands, and many souls were added to the Church. If Murry was sent to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , which I think was the case, Joel Havens traveled with Jones. I
                    once heard Cummins say he would rather have Havens as a colleague for three
                    months, than any man whom he knew.
            Near the close of the year, there was a camp meeting on the hill about two miles
                    from 
                        Madison
                    , which was attended by several strange preachers. I preached the
                    funeral sermon of James Kile, who died near 
                        Madison
                    . Cravens and Kile had been neighbors in 
                        Virginia
                    ; and the preacher said he had known his friend long and well, and
                    he had never known a charge brought against him in the Church but once, and that
                    was for praying for blood-suckers and negro thieves; "but,"
                    said the preacher, "he was honorably acquitted, and permitted to pray
                    on, thank God." Bishop Roberts also attended this meeting, if I am not
                    misinformed, and preached with great acceptability. One sermon in particular,
                    preached from the words of Abraham to the rich man, "If they hear not
                    Moses and the prophets," etc., is yet a subject of interesting  conversation with the old members and
                    citizens. The increase on the circuit was two hundred and twenty-six which was
                    doing well.
            Samuel Hamilton still remained the acceptable presiding elder on the Indiana
                    district, 
                        Missouri
                     conference. James Armstrong, the preacher on 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, had just been received on trial by the 
                        Missouri
                     conference, and had been a number of years an uncommonly popular
                    and successful local preacher in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        Baltimore
                    , and contiguous regions. He had been a kind of an itinerant local
                    preacher, who had given himself much to the work, particularly at popular
                    meetings. He was among the most untiring and energetic men I ever knew. In the
                    course of these numbers, I shall furnish for republication, an article which I
                    wrote concerning him some years ago, or prepare a new article, or I would say
                    more concerning him in this place. Whether he had a colleague or not, I cannot
                    say; but I presume some one was employed to travel with him, as the circuit was
                    a heavy one. The ingathering on the circuit this year was very great for the
                    circuit rose from nine hundred and ‘forty-five to twelve hundred and
                    fifty-eight, being an increase of three hundred and thirteen. This ingathering
                    was on almost all parts of the circuit, and consisted of all classes and ages of
                    the community. Many of the present worthy members in Clarke's 
                        Grant
                     were the fruits of this ingathering; but there was a painful
                    reaction in which many were lost from the Church.
            George K. Hester, the preacher on Flat Rock circuit, had lived many years near
                            
                  Charlestown, Clarke county, Ia.
               , and entered the work in the fall of 1820, and was
                    placed on Mt. Sterling circuit. The metes and bounds of the
                    circuit are now unknown, as the name has been long since lost. Hester was a
                    young man of a good mind, but so very bashful that he could not tell his name
                    without a deep blush; and in this thing, he has not improved very much. I
                    presume no human being on earth, or angel in heaven, knows how much of real
                    agony he has suffered in the course of his life from this diffidence. With all
                    his timidity, however, he pursued the 
                    course of duty, and the Lord owned and blessed his labors; for he had an
                    increase of seventy on his new, muddy, inconvenient circuit. I have before
                    mentioned the inconveniency of traveling this circuit, from the multitude of
                    water courses in which it abounds; and then there were no bridges or ferries.
            I never had any acquaintance, either personal or from information, with John
                    Wallace, the preacher in charge of Blue River circuit,
                    except what is found in the Minutes. In the first volume of
                    the bound Minutes, page 424, the reader will find an
                    interesting account of this good brother. From this account we learn that his
                    appointment to the Blue River circuit was his last; for he
                    died in August of this year. There is a mistake in placing his location in the
                    Forks of White Water river, instead of White
                        river. From this account we also learn that the circuit extended
                    to the East Fork of White river; for he was takenn sick at 
                        Brownstown
                    , the county town of 
                        Jackson county
                    , Ia.
            This must have been a large circuit; for three years afterwards the name was lost
                    in names of 
                        Salem
                     and Paoli circuits. What was the increase or decrease, we cannot
                    learn; for the Minutes give the number of the former year,
                    which is usual when there is no return to conference, which, I suppose, was the
                    case this year, as Wallace died just before conference.
            In a former number I made some mention of Joseph Kinkaid, but could not then tell
                    where he commenced his course, and graduated to elders' orders; but
                    since I have found that he was received on trial in the year 1809 by the Genesee
                    conference, in the bounds of which he traveled a number of years, and was then
                    transferred to 
                  Zanesville,
                            Ohio
               , and from thence to
                    Silver Creek, Ia. I refer the reader to a former number for a more full account
                    of this brother, who has been dead many years.
            Job M. Baker, although a good preacher, seems to have been unsuccessful this year
                    on Corydon circuit, as there was a decrease of seventy-two. From the fact that
                    he was made supernumerary at the close of the year, I infer that his health now
                    began to decline, and he was not able to attend to his  work regularly, and the consequence was a falling
                    off of the membership, which is generally the case under such circumstances. We
                    shall now part with this brother, as he received but one more appointment, and
                    that was on 
                        Vincennes
                     circuit, which is out of my proposed bounds.
            Baker was a talented and popular preacher. After his location he studied
                    medicine, and moved to some place in the 
                        Mississippi
                     country. The last I heard of him was in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where he attended medical lectures some years ago, and was popular
                    as a local preacher, if my information be correct. This year was one of only
                    medium prosperity, as the whole increase on the ten circuits was only six
                    hundred, which, however, was better than the preceding year.
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , May 21, 1846.
            P. S. My prescribed limits will not permit me to travel far west; but I may say,
                    in a few words, that there was a new circuit constituted this year in the center
                    of the state, called 
                        Indianapolis
                    , to which William Cravens was sent. He had success in his new
                    field, and much good was done, especially in the new metropolis of Indiana. If
                    some person on the ground will take the trouble, there may be gathered up some
                    interesting events; but a little delay will soon cover the whole in perpetual
                    oblivion. The widow Given, and James Swtt, the successor of Brother Cravens,
                    could give valuable information. Brother Henry Porter could have given
                    interesting facts, but he is gone, and his information with him.
            A. W.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, June 2G, 1846.
            No. XXIV
            1822–23—The 
                        Miami
                     and Indiana districts and the circuits in their bounds, about which
                    I write, were supplied as follows: 
                        Miami
                     district, Alexander Cummins; Greenville circuit, Richard Brandriff
                    and Moses Crume, supernumerary;  White
                    Water, Russel Bigelow and George Gatch; 
                        Connersville
                    , James Murry and James C. Taylor; 
                        Oxford
                    , James Jones and Levi White; 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , William H. Raper; 
                        Madison
                    , John Stewart and Nehemiah B. Griffith; Indiana district, Samuel
                    Hamilton; 
                        Charleston
                     circuit, James Armstrong; Flat Rock, Dennis Willey; Blue
                        River, William M'Reynolds and George K. Hester; Corydon,
                    James L. Thompson; Indiaapolis, James Scott.
            This year, the health of Cummins continued feeble; but he attended his work until
                    the last quarterly meeting for 
                        Miami
                     circuit, which was held August 22d and 23d, at Mechanicsburg, now 
                        West Chester
                    , where the writer then lived in the parsonage. Cummins preached on
                    Saturday from Romans, i, 16, and held quarterly conference, which closed his
                    ministerial life; for in the afternoon he was taken with a chill and fever,
                    which proved to be his last sickness. He remained a few days at the parsonage,
                    where the writer and his family esteemed it a privilege to wait on the good man;
                    but he was anxious to go to his residence in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where he could have the attendance of his family physician, and
                    others of superior skill. Old Brother Legg and myself made a kind of hammock in
                    a wagon; and in this manner conveyed him home, where he lay until the 27th of
                    September, when he died in peace.
            The first sermon which Brother Bigelow preached in the 
                        Cincinnati
                     station, to which he was appointed that year, was the funeral
                    sermon of his former colleague and friend to whom he was much attached. At the
                    time of his death, he was on the superannuated list, where he had been placed a
                    few days before his lamented death.
            Cummins was a tall, slender man, with a long neck, and he was very narrow across
                    the shoulders, so that he could speak with much ease; and when young, and in
                    health, very loud, and still with a pleasant and energetic voice. I have heard
                    him say that in his prime if the people would be still and silent, he had no
                    difficulty in making them hear him distinctly a quarter of a mile.
                    Notwithstanding he seemed to speak with great ease, such a volume of voice as he
                    used was  more than his slender frame could
                    endure; and in a few years he had to be placed on the supernumerary list, but he
                    did not remain long there; for when his health had recruited some, he undertook
                    the full work again. This brother had a well balanced and well informed mind;
                    and had his health and life been spared, he would have stood, at this day, among
                    the very first men in the land; but a wise God removed him from the field of
                    action and usefulness in the meridian of life. Why this was done, we do not
                    know; but infinite wisdom saw what was best for him, and took him from all
                    danger and sorrow. The reader will find in the first volume of the Minutes, page 474, some account of this good man, with a reference to
                    the Methodist Magazine, Vol. VII, page 166, for a more full
                    account. Had my work not grown on my hands far beyond my expectation, I would
                    have enlarged this brief notice of so much excellency. Great was the success of
                    this preacher in his days of health and strength.
            Brandriff and Crume had not much success on Greenville in the way of ingathering,
                    but it is presumable that the circuit was much improved in knowledge and
                    stability. Crume's relation did not require full work, and I presume he
                    did not labor much, as his health was on the decline, and he was superannuated
                    in the fall, and he never filled another appointment; but he lived many years,
                    and was useful in a limited way.
            Bigelow, I have before named as a superior and powerful preacher; but as I wish
                    to give an account of him somewhat in detail, I shall say nothing of importance
                    about him now, only that he labored with his untiring energy, but not with his
                    usual success.
            George Gatch, his colleague, was the son of Philip Gatch, who was a traveling
                    preacher as early as 1774, when the second Methodist conference was held in 
                        America
                    . He traveled four years, and then located; but locations are not
                    mentioned on the Minutes until the next year. At an early day
                    Philip Gatch moved to the western country and settled on the Little Miami,
                    contiguous to where the present town of 
                        Milford
                     stands. Few men have been more respected for so long a  time as was he, and he did much good as a local
                    preacher. The 
                        Ohio
                     conference made him a superannuated member of its body several
                    years before his death, and the reader may find an interesting account of him in
                    the second volume of the bound Minutes, page 403. He lived to
                    be nearly eighty-five years old.
            George Gatch traveled eight years, and then located; and where he lives and how
                    he is prospering as a local preacher, I do not know. When he traveled with
                    Bigelow, he was not as splendid as some preachers, but was a young man of good
                    mind, whose sermons had more of solid matter than of show. With all the labor of
                    these brothers, the Minutes show a decrease of four hundred
                    and five, but there was not that decrease, for the numbers for 
                        Connersville
                     circuit were included in the White Water return the year before. I
                    find the numbers for 
                        Connersville
                     to be three hundred and fifty-eight, which are to be deducted from
                    the White Water decrease, which will reduce it to forty-seven; and if there was
                    a decrease on 
                        Connersville
                    , which I deem probable, there was very little if any decrease in
                    Bigelow's charge.
            James Murry, the preacher in charge of 
                        Connersville
                     circuit, has been before mentioned in connection with 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuits. James C. Taylor, his colleague, had just been admitted on
                    trial, and continued to travel about ten years, when I miss his name from the
                        Minutes of the 
                        Ohio
                     conference, without being informed what has become of him. I
                    suppose he located, but by some oversight the fact has not been noticed. As to
                    the talents and usefulness of the brother, I know nothing. I find the circuit
                    reported as containing three hundred and fifty-eight members, which I suppose
                    was not an increase on the circuit, but the fact cannot be ascertained, as the
                    circuit was not numbered separately the year before. As I then lived in 
                        Ohio
                    , I know but little about the White Water country, other than what I
                    find on the Minutes and some small scraps of information
                    collected incidentally from the people.
            James Jones, who was in charge of 
                        Oxford
                     circuit, has been before noticed. Levi White was a young man of
                    zeal  and some promise, and was received on
                    trial at the conference, from which he was sent to 
                        Oxford
                    . 
                        White
                     is yet in the traveling connection, as a member of the 
                        Ohio
                     conference; and, I believe, is acceptable and useful. I have no
                    particular. knowledge of the doings of these brothers, but from my knowledge of
                    the men, I have no doubt of their zealous cooperation in trying to promote the
                    cause of God; but their success was small, for they had only seven of an
                    increase. We should, however, greatly err if we were to judge of men's
                    usefulness, or even success, by the number of members received and retained by
                    them. There is a possibility that hundreds may be received on a circuit and at
                    the same time the circuit be almost ruined by the neglect of discipline, or an
                    injudicious administration of it. Hundreds of nominal members, who do not
                    faithfully attend the means of grace, and support the benevolent institutions of
                    the Church, add nothing to her strength. Like the merchant, the more unsalable
                    goods he has, the worse are his circumstances. Another circuit may shrink much
                    in its membership, and at the same time be greatly elevated and advanced in its
                    moral and religious character, and be a much better circuit than it was before
                    its Shrinkage.
            The Minutes place William H. Raper alone on the Law-renceburg
                    circuit, but the presiding elder employed William Lambdin to travel with Raper.
                    Lambdin had been a number of years a traveling preacher but was now in a local
                    life, and living not far from the North Bend in 
                        Ohio
                    . He subsequently joined the traveling connection, and filled some
                    important charges in the Pittsburg conference. I believe he is now traveling in 
                        Tennessee
                    . He never was a splendid preacher, but he was a very useful man.
                    Raper and Lambdin were very acceptable to the people; but their success was
                    moderate, for there was a decrease of seven on the circuit this year. Perhaps,
                    however, the circuit was much improved in its religious character.
            John Stewart, the preacher in charge of 
                        Madison
                     circuit, has been mentioned before, in connection with the
                        Blue River
                     circuit. Nehemiah B. Griffith, his
                    colleague, has been mentioned among the converts of 
                        Oxford
                     circuit, the year Samuel Baker and William H. Raper traveled that
                    circuit. He now entered the traveling connection as a flaming herald of
                    salvation. That he was in some things enthusiastic and that he was sometimes
                    precipitate, and a little dogmatic in his administration of discipline, in after
                    years, must be admitted; but that he was a very superior man in some things, and
                    a preacher of more than ordinary success, are facts known to all who have ever
                    been acquainted with his labors. Perhaps it is not in human nature, in most
                    cases, to be very successful without inspiring the successful man with an
                    undesirable degree of confidence in himself. I know there are exception:; to
                    this general rule, but they are like "angels' visits few and
                    far between." Griffith continued to travel about twelve years and died
                    in the northern part of Indiana. Doubtless the clay of eternity will show
                    hundreds who were brought to the knowledge of salvation by his instrumentality
                    in these twelve years. He and his widow (afterward the wife of the Rev. William
                    Campbell, now of the North Indiana conference) are both gone, and have left
                    three orphan children. May heaven protect and bless them! In the second volume
                    of the bound Minutes, page 344, will be found a short account
                    of brother Griffith. At the request of the Indiana conference, Bishop Roberts
                    preached a funeral sermon in memory of Armstrong, Locke and Griffith, at the 
                        Centerville
                     conference.
            The 
                        Madison
                     circuit had considerable prosperity this year, considering the
                    success of the preceding year; for it is a melancholy fact, that a prosperous
                    year is almost always succeeded by a year of declension. I have before suggested
                    a remedy for this evil; but as yet it exists; and I fear will continue to do so
                    until the better days of the Church. The increase on the circuit was
                    ninety-five. Not being in this region, at the time, I have not been informed
                    where they had their greatest revivals, or what popular and interesting meetings
                    were held on the circuit.
            This year closed the time which the Discipline permitted  Hamilton to remain on the Indiana district. Perhaps
                    he had reached his zenith on his charge before this time; but he finished the
                    four years with acceptability to the people.
            Armstrong was returned to 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit; but with all his zeal and popularity, the great
                    ingathering the preceding year began to react painfully, and continued to do so
                    for four years to come. This year there was a decrease of one hundred and
                    forty-eight. I presume Armstrong did not travel alone, but if I ever heard who
                    traveled with him, I have forgotten. I have an impression that Samuel Hull, now
                    near 
                        Terre Haute
                    , helped him.
            Dennis Willey, the preacher on Flat Rock circuit, was the son of Barzillai
                    Willey, who had been a traveling preacher in the 
                        Philadelphia
                     conference (which then embraced much of the state of 
                        New York
                    ) as early as 1799. He traveled five years, and then located. He
                    subsequently removed to Indiana, and settled in Clarke's 
                        Grant
                    , near Silver creek. At what time he settled in Indiana, I am not
                    informed; but when I first became acquainted with him, and his premises, nearly
                    twenty-one years ago, the farm and buildings had the marks of antiquity. He is
                    now a man well stricken in years, and is yet zealous in the good cause. He is
                    unable to do much personally, but he is liberal to the cause of missions, which
                    his former uncommonly industrious habits enable him to patronize. His son Dennis
                    became a traveling preacher in the fall of 1821, and was sent to the 
                        Arkansas
                     circuit as his first field of labor. Dennis was a studious youth,
                    and continued to travel and preach four years, when his health failed, and he
                    located, and went into business, which he has followed with much industry and
                    profit for many years. He is now a respectable local preacher in the town of
                            
                  Paris, Jennings county
               , Ia. He had
                    prosperity in Flat Rock circuit, for the increase in that new region was
                    seventy-four.
            William M'Reynolds, who was in charge of Blue River
                    circuit, was admitted on trial in the fall of 1820 by the 
                        Tennessee
                     conference, which then embraced most of 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            
            The General conference that year had separated that part of 
                        Kentucky
                     formerly embraced in the 
                        Ohio
                     conference, and made a 
                        Kentucky
                     conference with it and a part of the 
                        Tennessee
                     conference. In making out the appointments, M'Reynolds was
                    placed in the 
                        Kentucky
                     conference, in which he traveled two years, and was then
                    transferred to the 
                        Missouri
                     conference, where he traveled two years, and was then transferred
                    to the 
                        Kentucky
                     conference, where he traveled several years, and located, and moved
                    to 
                        Ohio
                    , and taught a female school. Where he now is, and what he is doing,
                    I know not. Whether he preaches much or little, is acceptable and useful, or
                    otherwise, I am not informed. George K. Hester, his colleague, has been named
                    before as the bashful youth. How industrious they were, I have no information;
                    but from the character of the men, it is presumed they did their duty; but the
                    year was an unsuccessful one, for there was a decrease of ninety-six.
            James L. Thompson, who was on the Corydon circuit, had been admitted on trial by
                    the 
                        Missouri
                     conference in the fall of 1821, and placed on the Patoka circuit.
                    The river, after which the circuit is named, has its source west of
                            
                  Harrison county, Ia.
               , and runs west and joins
                    the 
                        Wabash
                    . The country was then new, and a most unpleasant region to travel.
                    I have heard Brother Thompson tell about getting lost in the night, and having
                    to sit on a log in the rain and hold his horse until morning, while the nearness
                    of the howling wolves was rather appalling to man and horse.
            This year he had an older and better field, for the circuit not only embraced the
                    town after which it was named, being then the seat of government for the state,
                    but the town of 
                        New Albany
                     also was included in it. Thompson was an acceptable preacher on
                    that circuit, as he always continued to be wherever he traveled. When I was
                    stationed in 
                        New Albany
                    , where the conference met in the fall of 1837, I found more
                    families anxious to have him as one of their guests, than any other preacher in
                    conference, although he had been away  from
                    that charge fifteen years. His labors had not much visible fruit on the circuit;
                    for there were only six of an increase in the membership.
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     circuit, to which James Scott was sent, was now a spreading and
                    flourishing field of labor. Its metes and bounds at that day are unknown to me,
                    but it must have embraced much of the central part of Indiana. It would be
                    interesting if Brother Scott would describe it as it was. The increase this
                    year, for so new a country, was glorious, being two hundred and nine.
            This was Scott's fourth year in the traveling ministry. He had been
                    received on trial by the 
                        Missouri
                     conference in the fall of 1819; but the Minutes
                    do not state where he was appointed that year. The next year he went to Cedar
                    Creek in 
                        Missouri
                    , and the year following to 
                        Illinois
                     circuit in 
                        Illinois
                    , and then to the present charge, and at the close of this year he
                    located, and so remained for several years. He will come before us again.
            This was rather an unfruitful year on the circuits noticed; for on six of them
                    there was an increase of three hundred and ninety-seven and on four others there
                    was a decrease of six hundred and fifty-four, being a decrease in the whole ten
                    of two hundred and forty-seven. This is a melancholy consideration, to see the
                    country rapidly populating, and seventeen or more men of God hard at work, and
                    the cause of religion seemingly on the decline. If such a thing were now to take
                    place, there would be many and sufficient reasons, in the judgment of many, for
                    the result; but then we were not Sufficiently knowing to account for all the
                    mysteries of the divine government.
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , June 4, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, July 3, 1846.
            
            No. XXV
            1823–24—John Strange was now placed on the 
                        Miami
                     district; and of the Greenville circuit, James Murry and Silas
                    Colvin; White Water, John Everhart and Levi White; 
                        Connersville
                    , Aaron Wood; 
                        Oxford
                    , Peter Stevens and James Jones; 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , William H. Raper and John Janes; 
                        Madison
                    , John F. Wright and Thomas Hewson; Indiana district, William
                    Beauchamp; 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, Samuel Hamilton and Calvin W. Ruter, supernumerary; Flat
                    Rock, Thomas Rice; Blue River, William Cravens and Dennis
                    Willey; Cory-don, James L. Thompson; 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Jesse Haile and George Horn.
            This year, we shall take our leave of the Greenville circuit, as the General
                    conference of this year made the line dividing the states of 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, the line dividing the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     conferences; for the states of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     were constituted one conference. In this name of the new
                    conference, we can see how selfish even good men are in small things, for
                    Indiana was greatly in advance of 
                        Illinois
                     in population and in improvements, and in churches and church
                    members, but she had no delegate in the General conference peculiarly her own;
                    hence, the conference was called 
                        Illinois
                     instead of Indiana.
            We shall also take leave of James Murry this year; for his future travels had no
                    connection with Indiana. I will just say he traveled a few years longer, and
                    then located, and settled on Tanner's Creek, in 
                        Dearborn county
                    , Ia. After remaining a local preacher a while, he sent a rather
                    uncourteous letter to the quarterly conference, signifying his withdrawal from
                    the Church. He then united with the Protestant Methodist Church. I believe he
                    has traveled some among his new friends, but I presume without much success; and
                    I think he has declined traveling, and has entered into business in the city of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Colvin, his colleague, was a small  deformed man, of some talents, but he traveled only
                    one year; for the conference discontinued him, as his deformity and weakness
                    disqualified him for the work. It was not without wisdom that God's law
                    prohibited the deformed among Aaron's sons from the exercise of the
                    priest's office. It was wise in the 
                        Ohio
                     conference not to let sympathy for an unfortunate man induce them
                    to fill some charges with a brother who was incompetent, while so many men every
                    way competent were presenting themselves to the conference. These brethren had
                    some success; for there was an addition of forty-two in the membership.
            This year, John Everhart was readmitted into the traveling connection by the 
                        Ohio
                     conference. He had been a member of the 
                        Baltimore
                     conference and then located, and there were some things objected
                    against him; but he was permitted to appear before the conference and make some
                    statements, which made a favorable impression on the minds of many of the
                    preachers, so that he was admitted. He traveled two years, and located again;
                    and what has become of him, I know not. If I were to conjecture, it would be
                    that he is doing no good for this world, or the next; for any man who can
                    commence traveling and locate three times before he comes to the meridian of
                    life, has not that amount of stability which will make him successful in
                    anything. White, his colleague, was an energetic young man, who was successful
                    in his labors. There was an increase of fifty members on the circuit this year.
            Aaron Wood had been one year in the work when he was sent alone to 
                        Connersville
                     circuit. He was a sprightly, good-natured, pleasant young man. So I
                    found him the next year, when we traveled together. He must have been popular
                    among his people. His success was considerable; for he reported an increase of
                    forty-seven members on a circuit, which had the year before been traveled by two
                    preachers. 
                        Connersville
                     circuit was now becoming a pleasant field, as the former dividing
                    line between 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Missouri
                     conferences would not let it extend west into the wet, muddy land,
                    as most of 
                        Rush county
                     then was; but it has much improved in these respects.
            
            Peter Stevens, who was in charge of 
                        Oxford
                     circuit, was looking forward to a location, which he accomplished
                    at the close of the next year; and in view of a location, he was preparing
                    himself for the practice of medicine; and the consequence was, he was of little
                    or no use on the circuit. I have before said, when a man intends to locate, he
                    had better do so at once. To my mind, there is a want of moral honesty in any
                    man who receives his boarding and support from the Church as their servant,
                    while he is studying a profession of a secular kind, which he intends to follow
                    so soon as he is qualified for it. I knew Stevens several years afterward, when
                    he was a local preacher in good standing, and much more popular and useful, than
                    he had been in the latter years of his traveling. O, my brethren, whenever you
                    look to a secular calling, I beseech you to locate, and get out of the way; for
                    no man can be a successful traveling preacher with a local heart. Jones did what
                    he could, but things were languid, and he and his family were almost starved out
                    for the want of support. The circuit was reported as having decreased
                    sixty-eight.
            William H. Raper was on 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit the second year, and perhaps no man has ever traveled it
                    with more acceptability than he. His colleague was a young man on his second
                    year in the work. He became a man of eminence, and died a member of the 
                        North Ohio
                     conference, early in the year 1843, after having been more than two
                    years in a superannuated relation. He was more than njnetoen years connected
                    with the traveling connection. In the Minutes ior 1843, page
                    421, the reader will find a short account of Brother Janes. With all the
                    talents, popularity, and efforts of Raper and Janes, they only had an increase
                    of fifteen in their charge. This, or the preceding year, there was a good camp
                    meeting on Tanner's Creek.
            The 
                        Madison
                     circuit had John F. Wright for its preacher in charge, and Thomas
                    Hewson as the second preacher; and such was the enlargement of the work, that
                    the presiding elder employed William Runnells, a stripling who then lived near
                            
                  Manchester, Dearborn county, Ia.
               , as a third preacher. I  presume it was with a view to give the town of 
                        Madison
                     more preaching on the Sabbath, that it became necessary to employ
                    another preacher. It would have been well if we had pursued this course more, if
                    the people would have been satisfied with it, and not have made so many
                    stations, which have more than one evil attending them. Wright is now on the 
                        Chillicothe
                     district, in 
                        Ohio
                    , and was in the Book Agency, at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , twelve years; and is so well known that I do not deem it necessary
                    to say much about him.
            I, however, must be permitted to tell a little of the doings of the appointing
                    power in connection with his appointment to 
                        Madison
                    . Wright was down for 
                        Chillicothe
                     station, and some one of the good-natured elders had let him and a
                    brother from the station who was on a visit to 
                        Urbana
                    , know the fact; and as was natural, Wright had had some
                    conversation about the place of boarding, etc. Bigelow was down for 
                        Madison
                    ; but there was much difficulty in supplying 
                        Cincinnati
                     that year, as the Church was convulsed with Radicalism. The
                    conference adjourned for dinner, and were to meet at an early hour to hear the
                    appointments. Bishop Roberts called the presiding elders together, and it was
                    determined to put Bigelow in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and Wright on 
                        Madison
                     circuit, and some one in his place in 
                        Chillicothe
                    . Conference met, and Dr. Ruter was called to the chair as the
                    Bishop was taken unwell, and could not attend. The journals were read; and the
                    Doctor, or some one else, commenced reading the appointments; and when 
                        Chillicothe
                     was named, Wright was not there, and he began to think, what have
                    they done with me? for be it remembered that 
                        Madison
                     was among the last appointments which were read. At last it came,
                    and behold, he was as far southwest as he could be placed in the 
                        Ohio
                     conference. Now for a time of sour looks, pouting, and railing at
                    presiding elders. Not a word of it, reader; for John went to his work as
                    cheerful as the next man; and it remains for these days, and some of the men of
                    these days, to put on such airs as poutings and railings. O, when shall we be
                    what we were? I fear not while we have so many stations as bones of contention.
            
            Hewson, who was an Englishman by birth, lived in 
                  Switzerland county, Ia.
               , and had been an infidel for many years. I think
                    it was during Jones' year on 
                        Madison
                     circuit that he was powerfully converted, and was a most happy man
                    while warm in his first love, and so he remained for several years; but, alas,
                    his unhappy natural disposition obtained the ascendency, and he became a
                    miserable backslider, and is now an unhappy Universalist preacher. I suppose his
                    infidelity, (for so I regard Universalism) will make him a mischievous man to
                    the morals of the community while he lives, unless the Holy One should reclaim
                    him. He was useful on the circuit that year and one more, but then he began to
                    decline.
            William Runnells was a slender youth when he began to travel, and so very timid
                    that he could hardly say his soul was his own; or to use the language of R.
                    Hall, the great Baptist writer, "He seemed to ask pardon of everybody
                    for being in this world." He, however, was then beloved as a meek and
                    modest youth, who wished to do all the good in his power. William is now a
                    respectable member of the 
                        North Ohio
                     conference, and was one of their delegates to the last General
                    conference; and we roomed together with our old friend, James Collord, the
                    printer at the Book-Room. kunnells' friends at 
                        Manchester
                     need not be ashamed of him. The labors of this year were closed
                    with a good camp meeting, near the upper part of 
                        Switzerland county
                    . The year was rather unfruitful as it regards ingathering, for
                    there was a decrease of seventy-two; but the fault could not have been in the
                    brethren on the circuit, for they were well received, and labored faithfully.
            The Indiana district had no ordinary man for its presiding elder this year.
                    William Beauchamp traveled first in 1794 on Allegheny circuit, where he was
                    continued the next year. In 1796, in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    ; 1797, 
                        New York city
                    ; 1798, 
                        Boston
                    ; 1799, Providencetown; and 1800, Nantucket. His health being
                    feeble, he located in the summer of 1801; and subsequently, at sometime unknown
                    to me, he moved to 
                  Chillicothe,
                            Ohio
               , and he there published
                    a monthly periodical of great merit, much of its valuable matter being the
                    production of his own pen.
            
            This publication lasted only one year. Prior to this monthly he had published a
                    volume of essays on the truth of divine revelation. This was an eloquent and
                    argumentative book, which I read many years ago with much satisfaction and
                    improvement. In 1817, he settled in Mt. Carmel, III., and
                    in the fall of 1822 he WBS readmitted into the itinerancy, and stationed in 
                        St. Louis
                    , Mo.; and in the fall of 1823, he was appointed to the Indiana
                    district. The same fall he was elected to the General conference; and such was
                    the impression made on the minds of his brethren, that most of the western
                    delegates selected him as a suitable person to be placed in the general
                    superintendence, and he received a very respectable vote for that high and holy
                    trust. His vote, however, was not equal to that received by Soule and Heading,
                    though he was not far behind the latter, who has so long and so well filled that
                    office. Beauchamp finished his course in October, 1824, at
                            
                  Paoli, Orange county, Ia.
               , where, I suppose, his body now slumbers, unless
                    his friends have removed it to Mt. Carmel. He was a man of
                    great piety, talents, and modesty. When I traveled 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, the more intelligent and pious part of the people thought
                    they had never heard so able and holy a preacher as he was. He preached a sermon
                    at a camp meeting in the 
                        Grant
                     on sanctification, that had a wonderful effect on the public mind;
                    and I presume, the fruit of it lasts to this day, although that was twenty-two
                    years ago. It is supposed that the amount of labor on the Indiana district
                    tended to shorten his days. When will we see the folly of working men to death,
                    when there is no need of doing so? The reader will find an account of this
                    brother in the first volume of the bound Minutes, page 474,
                    which refers to a more enlarged account in the Methodist
                    Magazine, Vol. VIII, pages 17, 49, and 86.
            When I was at conference in Mt. Carmel, in the fall of 1827,
                    I was at the house of his widow where I saw his peculiarly constructed study
                    chair, made with his own hands, which brought to my deep consideration the
                    powerful mind and pious heart which used to occupy that chair; but I reflected
                    that that mind had no more connection with the things  of time, but was vastly expanded with the knowledge
                    of the things of eternity, as with the knowledge of the things of eternity, as
                    the mind, unclogged with clay, apprehends them.
            I have before mentioned the impropriety and injudicious arrangement of placing
                    Samuel Hamilton on 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, where he had been so very popular as presiding elder. He
                    now sunk in his feelings, and the people and the work with him. Ruter was
                    appointed to help him as a supernumerary, but he was not able "to go
                    out and shake himself" as heretofore, for his health was ruined; and
                    his constitution has only been patched ever since. This was another downward
                    year on the circuit; for the shrinkage was one hundred and ten, being two
                    hundred and fifty-eight in the last two years.
            The preacher on the Flat Rock circuit was a very good and conscientious man, but
                    a man of many singularities, and they not of the kind to make him acceptable to
                    the people. He had all the queer notions and discontented feeling common to old
                    bachelors in general, and to some of them in particular. Bishop Roberts observed
                    to the conference at Charles-town, in the summer of 1825, that when he was
                    traveling in the south and this brother with him, whenever it came to brother
                    Rice's time to pray in the family, if the people where they staid were
                    slaveholders, the brother would be sure to tell the Lord how they held their
                    fellow-beings in bondage-William Cravens, in his witty way, said, "He
                    prayed at them." At another time he was leading class, and he came to
                    an older sister whose cap border either never had much starch in it, or it had
                    somehow got out, so that it hung in quite a bunch over her forehead as she sat
                    with her head leaning forward, and he said, "Sister, is not one cap
                    border sufficient for your cap?" The sister being conscious that she
                    had but one border to her cap, and not expecting such a question as this in
                    class meeting, raised her head, and the border fell back, and left her face and
                    forehead bare, and she said, "Do you mean me?" These, and many
                    kindred instances, will show the honesty and fidelity of the brother; but not
                    his good taste and correct judgment. I should judge the brother's zeal
                    was a kind of hikera pikera, or holy bitter. The circuit fell off this year  fifty-five, which was a heavy shrinkage in
                    a membership of four hundred and fifty-four, being about one-eighth. Perhaps,
                    however, some of the appointments might be attached to some other charge, so
                    that there might not have been so much loss as the Minutes
                    show; for this plan of shifting appointments from one circuit to another was
                    then common.
            Cravens and Willey had a good work on Blue River circuit;
                    for there was an increase of one hundred and fifty-nine. This is the last year
                    that Blue River will be found on the Minutes, or in these numbers; for it was now to be lost in 
                        Salem
                     and Paoli circuits.
            Thompson's second year closed on Corydon with same success; for there
                    was an increase of thirty-six. I would be glad if I could enter more into
                    detail, and give matters of more interest in these fields of labor; but I have
                    not the facts as they transpired, and to guess or conjecture them will not do
                    for the verity of history.
            Jesse Haile, who was in charge of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     circuit, was a most excellent man, with his peculiarities as
                    drawbacks. He lived to be an old preacher, who had seen much hard service in
                    Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Missouri
               , and 
                        Arkansas
                    . He was still in the work in the fall of 1844, but I think the Western Christian Advocate gave an account of his death
                    sometime since. The Church in the far west is much indebted to him for his
                    pioneer services.
            Horn was received on trial in the fall of 1821 by the 
                        Tennessee
                     conference, in the bounds of which he traveled two years, and he
                    was then transferred to the 
                        Missouri
                     conference, and appointed with Haile to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     work; and at the ensuing conference located. What has become of
                    him, I know not. How well these brethren were received, I know not. Had I
                    supposed my work would have so enlarged on my hands, I would have made the
                    necessary inquiries when I was in the region of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . I find the circuit had an increase of one hundred and twenty. The
                    circuit now numbered four hundred and seventy-two.
            It will be found that there was an increase on six of the circuits amounting to
                    six hundred and sixty-nine, while there  was
                    a decrease of four of the circuits, amounting to three hundred and five, so that
                    the net increase on these ten circuits was only three hundred and sixty-four,
                    which was doing better than the year before, when there was a decrease.
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            Blountville, Ia., June 4, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, July 10, 1846.
            No. XXVI
            1824–5.—In the spring of 1824, the General conference made
                    the state line the line between 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     conferences, so that the 
                        Ohio
                     conference had nothing to do with Indiana, only by consent of the
                    Indiana preachers. I presume, however, a part of Greenville circuit was still in
                    Indiana until White Water circuit was divided into White Water and 
                        Wayne
                     in the fall of 1827, when the preachers on 
                        Wayne
                     claimed those appointments which were in 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Randolph counties
                    , A part of 
                        Oxford
                     circuit also was in Indiana until the fall of 1828, when the
                    preachers in Indiana extended their work east to the state line. As the two
                    circuits named were reported to a conference out of the state of Indiana, and
                    were supplied by preachers from a conference which had no connection with any
                    other part of the state, I shall notice these two circuits only incidentally,
                    and in a very brief manner.
            Isaac N. Elsbury was on the Greenville circuit, and from some cause there was a
                    decrease of seventy-five in the membership.
            Daniel D. Davidson and John A. Baughman (before named) were the preachers on 
                        Oxford
                     circuit. How they passed with the people, I know not; but there was
                    not much prosperity on the circuit, for there was a decrease of seven members,
                    being three years out of four that the circuit decreased, and the year that was
                    an exception the increase was only seven, which was a small number to balance
                    one hundred 2nd fifty-two of a falling off in the three years.
            
            That part of Indiana which had been in the 
                        Miami
                     district, and a part of that which had been in the Indiana
                    district. 
                        Missouri
                     conference, now formed the Nadison district, 
                        Illinois
                     conference, to which John Strange was appointed. 
                        Madison
                     circuit, Allen Wiley and Aaron Wood; 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . James Jones and Thomas S. Hitt; White Water, Peter Stevens and
                    Nehemiah B. Griffith; 
                        Connersville
                    , James Havens; Rushville, Thomas Rice; 
                        Indianapolis
                    , John Miller; Flat Rock, Thomas Hewson and James Gamer; Indiana
                    district, James Armstrong; 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, James L. Thompson and Jacob Varner; Corydon, George K.
                    I-Iester and Dennis Willey; 
                        Salem
                    , Samuel Low and Richard Hargrave; Paoli, Edward Smith.
            This year, 
                        Madison
                     was made a station, and Jesse Green, of the 
                        Missouri
                     conference, appointed to it; but when the appointments were read
                    out at the 
                        Missouri
                     conference, Alexander M'Alister was appointed to the Cape
                    Girardeau district; but he arose and said, "I cannot, I will not
                    go," and Green was sent in his place, and the station left without a
                    preacher, and Strange was expected to supply it or connect it with the circuit
                    again. I suppose the latter was the expectation, for the station does not appear
                    on the Minutes. Strange was unable to supply it
                    satisfactorily, and it remained without a pastor the whole year, and had only
                    occasional preaching. The people would have been glad to receive preaching from
                    the preachers on the circuit, but they were unwilling to be connected with the
                    circuit, as they feared if they became united that year, it might make against
                    their station arrangements the next year. The objection to a union with the
                    circuit grew out of an unfortunate want of harmony in the quarterly meeting
                    conference. If a member in town were turned out and appealed to the quarterly
                    conference, restoration was almost certain. So said the people in the town.
                    There were also jealousies about the amount of preaching received by the town
                    and country, and the amount of support contributed by each. I believe it is a
                    very great evil to make so many stations as we have done; but it may be a
                    greater evil to keep a jealous town and country united when  they are always in a state of contention. This was
                    the beginning of stations in Indiana; and an unfortunate beginning it was, to be
                    a whole year without a pastor. Strange lived in 
                        Madison
                    , so that he could give them most of his spare Sabbaths, and there
                    were some local preachers in it, and the preachers from the adjacent circuits
                    preached to them sometimes, so that the Church did not quite die; but it was
                    very sickly and did not get well for a long time; and perhaps some of the
                    sickness of that day remains to the present time. How much increase or decrease
                    there was in the station I cannot tell, as the numbers for the town were
                    included in the numbers for the circuit in the summer of 1824. The number for
                    the station for this year was one hundred and thirty-nine. Wiley and Wood
                    labored on the circuit in the most perfect harmony; and although there was
                    considerable disparity in their ages, and great difference in their condition,
                    the one with a heavy family and much care, the other single and free from care,
                    they formed a close union in feeling, which lasts to the present day. They had
                    not much revival success in their labors, but the year was not wholly
                    unfruitful. There was a good work in 
                        Vevay
                    , and some of the fruit of that year still remains. That year,
                    sister Dumont, who occasionally writes for the Repository,
                    joined the Church, observing to the preacher, "that candor compelled
                    her to say, that if there were a Presbyterian Church in the town, she should
                    prefer to join it." I replied, "You can try us, and if you do
                    not like us, you can leave; but I think when you become well acquainted with us,
                    you will never leave US;" and she remains with the society still. Some
                    of the members of longest standing in the place were converted that year; and if
                    we had then been able to build a church, we should now have a much better
                    society in the town than we have. The preachers, before they left for 
                        Charlestown
                     to attend the conference, made an arrangement to have a camp
                    meeting immediately after conference, near Simeon Slawson's, about nine
                    miles from 
                        Vevay
                    , on the road to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This was the first of three camp meetings which were held on that
                    ground, and it was a good meeting, and a goodly number of souls  were converted, and among the number the
                    writer's eldest daughter, who continues in the good way.
            The number for the circuit this year was seven hundred, being a decrease for the
                    circuit and station of sixty-seven. Which decreased most, the town or country, I
                    cannot tell; perhaps both in nearly equal ratios. This decrease was not quite so
                    large as that of the preceding year, when there were three good preachers on the
                    work. The preachers had hard times this year in the way of support. The
                    collections on the circuit were something over one hundred and thirty dollars,
                    of which the presiding elder received his proportion, and Wiley received about
                    eighty-four dollars, mostly in the produce of the country, and Wood about
                    forty-two dollars, mostly in money. Wiley's quarterage claim was then
                    three hundred and twenty-eight dollars according to the allowance of the
                    Discipline; but as stated in a former number, usage gave the man with a
                    family' two-thirds, and the single man one-third. The strict letter of
                    the law, and the usage of the present day, would have given Wiley about one
                    hundred and four, and Wood about twenty-two dollars, which the parties and all
                    others would have deemed an oppression of the young man, who worked as hard as
                    the older one. If the reader should ever meet a Discipline with notes by Bishops
                    Coke and Asbury, he will find that the bishops contend that former usage was the
                    lawful usage as intended by the General conference. In strict equity, the man
                    who works most ought to have the most pay, whether married or single; but in
                    Methodist economy, a salary, according to talents and services rendered, is not
                    the aim, but to give men a mere support, which will enable them to remain in the
                    work. Should men, however, receive a mere support while they are wearing out
                    their constitutions? If adequate provision were made to give to superannuated
                    men, their widows and orphans, the Disciplinary allowance, I would say a present
                    support would be sufficient; but we know that no such provision is yet made, and
                    not likely to be made at present.
            James Jones, the preacher in charge of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    
                     circuit, has been named before. Thomas S.
                    Hitt had been received on trial in the summer of 1819, and was appointed to
                    Piqua circuit, and next year to 
                        Milford
                    . In the summer of 1821, he was sent to Mad
                    River circuit, which included Ur-bana, where he had lived some years
                    before he commenced traveling. This year he had a copious and alarming
                    hemmorrhage from the lungs, by which he well nigh bled to death, for he bled
                    until he could not raise his head from his pillow. Such was his prostration,
                    that at the ensuing conference he was placed on the supernumerary list; but I do
                    not find any field of labor assigned him. His relation was continued this year,
                    and he was appointed to that part of the work which fell to the 
                        Illinois
                     conference. Jones was zealous and faithful, and so was Hitt, so far
                    as his health would permit; he, however, was a man of complicated sufferings,
                    and could not exert himself as he had done in former and better days. There was
                    a decrease of fourteen on the circuit this year, which must have been a great
                    affliction to these warm-hearted brethren. I think Hitt was not able to travel
                    part of the time, and Daniel Plummer filled his place on the circuit.
            I have before spoken of Stevens, the preacher in charge of the White Water
                    circuit. This was his last year of itinerancy; and I suppose it was to him an
                    unpleasant, and to the people an unprofitable year, as he intended, and did
                    locate in the fall. Griffith, his colleague, was young and uncommonly zealous;
                    but at that time he had more zeal than talent. There was a good work this year
                    under Griffith's labors in 
                        Brookville
                    . He could not succeed very well in the Church: but when he could
                    get the people to prayer meetings in the dwelling of our old friend, Samuel
                    Goodwin, he would pour forth a torrent of burning exhortation, which would make
                    the stouthearted quail before him. In this way, a number of the prominent and
                    valuable citizens were awakened, and converted, and joined the Church; but most
                    of them are gone, some to other parts of this, and some to another world, where
                    they and Griffith have met, I trust, in a better state of being than  can be enjoyed here. There was an increase of
                    sixty-four this year; for the circuit rose from eight hundred and seventy-eight
                    to nine hundred and forty-two.
            James Havens was appointed to 
                        Connersville
                     circuit, so that he fell within the bounds of the 
                        Illinois
                     conference. He had been four years in the regular itinerant work,
                    having been received on trial by the 
                        Ohio
                     conference, in 
                        Chillicothe
                    , in the summer of 1820. He had traveled a year or two under the
                    direction of a presiding elder before he was received by the conference. He
                    moved into the the eastern part of 
                        Rush county
                    , which was the western part of his circuit, and settled in a small
                    cabin with a large family. His condition was similar to that of most of his
                    brethren, whose parsonages were generally humble cabins, fitted up for the
                    occasion, when others had moved out of them into better houses, or to other
                    parts of the country. He was then in the very vigor of his days, and popular and
                    useful. He was not the man of intellectual culture which he now is; but he could
                    supply the deficiency with bold and powerful declamation, which pleased the mass
                    of the people as well as anything else, as it made them feel. His success was
                    not so great as it has sometimes been, for there was only an increase of seven
                    on the circuit.
            This year, for the first time, we find on the Minutes a
                    Rushville circuit. I suppose it was made partly from the northern part of Flat
                    Rock circuit, the western part of 
                        Connersville
                    , the eastern part of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and many new places which were now being settled. What were its
                    metes and bounds, I do not certainly know; but when I first knew it in the fall
                    of 1828, it embraced Rushville, the county town of 
                  Rush county, Greensburg
               , the county town of 
                        Decatur county
                    , Shelbyville, the county town of 
                        Shelby county
                    , and went within less than one mile of 
                        Greenfield
                    , the county town of 
                        Hancock county
                    , and all along the National Road east as far as Blue
                        River, and at a former time went north perhaps as far as
                    Newcastle, the county town of 
                        Henry county
                    . If any man will look on a map of this great field he will see a
                    large region for one man to travel in four weeks, especially in the winter and
                    spring, when most of this rich level country  was deep mud, before it became cleared and trodden by animals. That same
                    circuit is now divided into Rushville station, 
                        Greensburg
                     station, Milroy, Shelbyville, Burlington, a part of 
                        Milford
                    , and a part of Knightstown, and a part of Pleasant View circuits,
                    and perhaps a part of some other circuits. The good, but singular Thomas Rice
                    was on the circuit. What success attended his ministry, I have no means of
                    ascertaining, for there are no means by which I can ascertain how many members
                    he had to begin with. The number at the close of the year was two hundred and
                    sixty-eight.
            John Miller, now of the 
                        Madison
                     district, was appointed to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     circuit. He had been one year in the work, having traveled the
                    Sangamon circuit in 
                        Illinois
                    . John could sing well, pray well, and preach some, and was on the
                    increase in gifts and grace. His people and presiding elder were fond of him;
                    and Strange used to say, in his humorous way, "John ought to have a
                    patent-right for praying." I presume he had good times on his work, and
                    had some increase; but the Minutes report a decrease of one
                    hundred and sixty-eight, which is large decrease on a circuit which had reported
                    four hundred and seventy-two the preceding year. This decrease is more than
                    one-third the whole number; but I have supposed that a part of Rushville circuit
                    was taken from this charge, and perhaps other parts of it were detached and
                    united to other circuits, so that there may not have been any real decrease.
            Thomas Hewson, who has been named as a convert from infidelity and a subsequent
                    apostate from the truth to that form of infidelity called Universalism, was
                    placed in charge of Flat Rock circuit; and James Garner, who had just been
                    received on trial, was appointed his colleague. Garner was the some of that
                    worthy local preacher who first organized this circuit in the winter of
                    1820–21. Garner was a modest, diffident young man; but such were his
                    piety and gravity, that the people were fond of him. These brethren labored with
                    much zeal, and great was their success; for the circuit rose from three hundred
                    and eighty nine to six hundred and forty-two, being an increase of two hundred
                    and fifty-three. If  Hewson had eyes to see
                    as he then saw, and a heart to feel as he then felt, how soon we would hear of
                    his renunciation of infidelity, and a cordial embracing of the truth. I know
                    some may object to the ground assumed in calling Universalism infidelity; but
                    after thinking on the subject for years, I am fully satisfied that that system
                    of doctrine which rejects the Bible account of future rewards and punishments,
                    should not be regarded and treated as a system having any claims to
                    Christianity. We should treat the persons bewitched by this dreadful and
                    destructive delusion with tenderness and respect; but the delusion should be
                    regarded as downright deism, and equally destructive of men's souls.
            James Armstrong, who has been named as the zealous preacher two years on the 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, was now placed on the Indiana district as the successor of
                    the wise, the good, but now deceased William Beauchamp. Armstrong was a flaming
                    torch on the district, and many souls were added by his instrumentality.
            James L. Thompson was pretty well received on 
                        Charleston
                     circuit, but from some cause he did not enjoy himself very well.
                    Jacob Varner, his colleague, was one of those very conscientious and precise
                    men, who are better calculated to make men loathe religion and shun the
                    ministers than to do good. Men should be conscientious but not have a fastidious
                    and sickly conscience. He had a feeble constitution, and was somewhat sickly,
                    and had many queer notions. The conference at the end of the year, discontinued
                    him; and what has become of him, I know not. When brother Bigelow was presiding
                    elder on the 
                        Chillicothe
                     district, he was within his bounds. I pitied him, and plead for
                    him; but when I followed him on the circuit, I was satisfied the conference did
                    right in discontinuing him, as every conference ought to do with every man who
                    is greatly peculiar; for they that will be odd from the rest of mankind, ought
                    not to be traveling preachers, so as to trouble others with their oddities.
                    Thompson's discouragements and Varner's whims made the year
                    rather a heavy one for the circuit; but Thompson left many warm friends when he
                    was appointed to another circuit. The tendency on  the circuit was still downward, but not so much as
                    the two preceding years; for the decrease was only sixteen.
            How Hester and Willey passed the year on Corydon, I am not informed. Willey
                    located at the end of the year. The increase on the circuit was only ten.
            In noticing 
                        Salem
                     circuit, one of the parts of the former Blue
                    River circuit, there will come before us two new men. Samuel Low was
                    a shoemaker, who once lived in 
                        Madison
                    , Ia.; but at that time he was neither a Presbyterian or
                    Congregationalist. I do not recollect where he located himself after he moved
                    from 
                        Madison
                    ; but he became convinced that the Wesleyan doctrines were the real
                    doctrines of the holy Scriptures, and he renounced his former views, and joined
                    the Methodist Episcopal Church. He was a man whose mind was considerably above
                    mediocrity, and he became an able preacher; and if his health had been good, so
                    that he could have endured the toils and privations of a traveling preacher, he
                    would have been a man of much eminence. He traveled usefully and successfully a
                    few years, and then became superannuated, and went into the mercantile business,
                    and subsesequently located. For years he seemed to prosper in the business; but
                    the dreadful crash in 1837 and subsequent years prostrated him in property. When
                    I knew him in the 
                        Wabash
                     country in 1837–8, he was about winding up his business;
                    and it was found he had failed, and become poor. He was then a very popular
                    local preacher, but had been much more so before he became embarrassed in his
                    temporalities; for let a man be ever so honest, it will injure him with the
                    public if he fail in business. The feeling of the public which blames a man, if
                    he fail, is a good feeling; for although it may sometimes afflict an innocent
                    man, this is a less evil, than that low state of moral feeling which would
                    countenance the reckless bankrupt. Low afterward moved to 
                        Illinois
                     and died.
            Richard Hargrave was the son of a preacher in that connection which was formed by
                    James O'Kelley, who withdrew from the Methodist Episcopal Church in
                    1793. I believe Richard began to preach in the same denomination; but his
                    inquiring mind, which was inclined to sift everything to the  bottom, led him to examine the doctrines of the
                    O'Kelley Church, and he found most of the preachers were Arians, who
                    rejected the doctrine of Christ's divine nature, and equality with the
                    Father. Richard became convinced that their views on this important point were
                    erroneous, and he renounced his connection with the Church in which he had been
                    reared, and sought a new home in the pale of an orthodox Church. As he began
                    early to examine doctrine, his mind became accustomed to close investigation;
                    and the consequence is, there are few men who more thoroughly understand, and
                    can more ably defend the doctrines of the Church than Richard Hargrove. He is
                    yet in the work, and preaching the doctrines of truth with ability. What success
                    these brethren had I have no means of ascertaining, as I do not know how many
                    members fell to the 
                        Salem
                     part of the Blue River circuit when it was
                    divided; but from the known zeal of the men, it is fair to infer that they had a
                    good work on the circuit. They reported, at the end of the year, four hundred
                    and fifty-five members.
            Edward Smith, who was now sent to the Paoli part of the Blue
                    River circuit, was on his second year in the conference. At the close
                    of the year, he was admitted into full connection, and ordained deacon; and as
                    the country did not agree with his health, he was transferred to the 
                        Baltimore
                     conference. He was a man of talents for his age in the ministry;
                    but from some cause the 
                        Baltimore
                     conference did not thank the 
                        Illinois
                     conference, or the superintendents, for the transfer. Smith and the
                    conference did not get along very harmoniously, and he was transferred to the
                    Pittsburg conference. In the fall of 1839, he visited the Indiana conference,
                    and a vote was passed by the conference, declaring that it would cordially
                    receive Smith, if the bishop who attended the Pittsburg conference would
                    transfer him. The writer tried to get the conference not to pass the vote, by
                    asking Smith some questions about his ability for the work, as he was an
                    afflicted man. Before the General conference met in May, 1840, Smith had become
                    a flaming, ultra abolitionist; and as the Indiana conference  was neither pro-slavery nor abolition, but was in
                    peace on that subject, the delegates of the conference let the superintendents
                    know that they were fully persuaded that the conference would now be unwilling
                    to receive Smith, or any other man, who was an agitator on that subject. The
                    transfer was not made, and the 
                        Pittsburgh
                     conference had their hands full of trouble with this troublesome
                    man. I believe he is now in his proper element in the True Wesleyans Church,
                    falsely so called, which was born in agitation, and by agitation it lives, and
                    so morbid is its appetite that without agitation it would have died. Bad as
                    slavery is, the plan which this Church would adopt to remove the evil, would
                    make bad matters worse. If Edward Smith does not make his new friends trouble
                    yet, it will be because he is acknowledged king of the forest. Smith was a good
                    and successful preacher when he was little in his own eyes; and he reported, at
                    the end of the year, four hundred and twenty-two members on the Paoli circuit.
                    The last year the Blue River circuit had seven hundred and
                    fifty-five members; and this year the 
                        Salem
                     and Paoli circuits have eight hundred and seventy-seven, being an
                    increase of one hundred and twenty-two. This part of the work prospered this and
                    the last year, and for some years to come.
            Our two original circuits, White Water and Silver Creek, have now multiplied into
                    fourteen separate charges, numbering seven thousand eight hundred and twenty-six
                    in their membership. This year, about half the charges had an increase of seven
                    hundred and thirty, but the other half had a decrease of three hundred and
                    forty-seven, leaving a net increase of only three hundred and eighty-three in
                    the estensive region of country over which we have traveled. We long to see
                    better days, and they are coming gradually, as we shall soon see.
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            Brooliville, Ia., June 10, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, July 17, 1846.
            
            No. XXVII
            1825–26.—After an interval of five years, Benjamin Lawrence
                    was again sent to Greenville circuit, but he seems not to have had his usual
                    success for there was a farther decrease of twenty in the membership, so that
                    this circuit in the last and present year lost ninety-five, reducing it from
                    four hundred and sixty-eight to three hundred and seventy-three.
            Daniel D. Davidson was continued on the 
                        Oxford
                     circuit. Of Davidson I know but little, only that he is a
                    respectable member of long standing in the 
                        Ohio
                     conference. He had for his colleague Robert M. Spencer, who was a
                    popular and useful local preacher. Robert was a good boy, who was powerfully
                    converted in a revival when Alexander Cummins was in the city station in the
                    spring of 1817. He was admitted on trial in the autumn of 1823, so that he now
                    entered on his third year in the ministry. He was pious and studious, so that he
                    has become somewhat eminent. He is yet in the work, and has a good standing in
                    his conference. These brethren had but small success; for there was an increase
                    of only four in the circuit.
            John Strange remained on the 
                        Madison
                     district, and Samuel Basset was placed in the station. 
                        Madison
                     circuit, George K. Hester; 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , James L. Thompson; White Water, James Havens; 
                        Connersville
                    , Nehemiah E. Griffith; Rushville, Stephen R. Beggs; 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Thomas Hewson; Flat Rock, James Jones and Thomas S. Hitt. The
                    Indiana district was now called 
                        Charlestown
                    , and James Armstrong continued on it; and on 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, Allen Wiley and George Ran-del; Corydon, Samuel Low and
                    George Locke; 
                        Salem
                     station, William Shanks; 
                        Salem
                     circuit, John Cord; Paoli, John Miller.
            Strange remained zealous, popular and useful and was the means of much good to
                    the Church within the bounds where he traveled, especially to the frontier
                    parts; for he loved the woods, and almost hated cities.
            The Church in 
                        Madison
                    , having been without a preacher the preceding year, was very
                    anxious to be well supplied this year; hence several brethren attended the
                    conference, that  they might see the
                    preachers, so as to choose their man; and, if possible, prevail on the
                    appointing power to grant them their choice. After looking round several days,
                    they selected Samuel Basset, who was a single man, and could board with them,
                    and not cost them much, as they were weak in membership, and not abundant in
                    means. Casset had been five years in the work, but a part of the time he had not
                    been able to labor regularly. He was a man of some years and experience, and
                    withal a man of good appearance, so that it was not to be wondered that the 
                        Madison
                     brethren made the choice which they did. The brother was a good
                    man, and could preach some; but he was wanting in decision in the
                    administration.
            The Church was not in the most healthy and peaceable state, and he would consult
                    with one brother about the meaning and application of the Discipline, and he
                    would think that his views were correct; and, perhaps, the next brother with
                    whom he would consult would be of an entirely different opinion; and so would
                    the preacher be, not that he was a deceitful conformant to the opinions of all
                    men, but he had no mind of his own. The poor man was perpetually on the chase to
                    find out what was right; and, after all, he did but little. The people used to
                    say, they would rather he would decide wrong, than not to decide at all. Things
                    passed on in a lame state, and the brethren became convinced, for the time being
                    at least, that they had better let the appointing power choose their preacher,
                    than to choose for themselves.
            This is not the only time, by very many, when the anxiety of the people to select
                    their own preacher has been attended with sad disappointment. In the spring, the
                    preacher on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     circuit left the work, and Strange took Basset from 
                        Madison
                     to that circuit, where he did well, and placed Calvin W. Ruter in 
                        Madison
                     the balance of the year. Ruter was on the superannuated list, and
                    lived at 
                        New Lexington
                    , about seventeen miles from 
                        Madison
                    . His health had improved some, and he served the Church as well as
                    he could, living so far off. Things prospered under his labors and
                    administration; but such was the downward tendency the preceding year,  and the beginning of the present year, that
                    there was a decrease of nine in the station. Basset closed his year, as we shall
                    see, on another charge, and then located; and what has become of him, I know
                    not. He was a good man; and as a junior preacher might have been useful, if his
                    health had been good; but he was a broken down man, who deserved more sympathy
                    than he received from the people of his charge.
            There was nothing of special interest on the 
                        Madison
                     circuit this year. Hester, the preacher, was a good man, and
                    beloved by the people; but he had determined to locate at the close of the year;
                    and the consequence was, he could not throw his whole soul into the work as he
                    could have done if he had intended to travel always. There was a decrease of
                    twenty-seven in the membership at the close of the year.
            
               
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit received James L. Thompson with much kindness, and he
                    became, to some extent, a favorite with the people: but there was no special
                    work on the circuit, and there was a decrease of thirteen in the numbers. I do
                    not now recollect whether Strange employed any person to travel with Thompson or
                    not.
            I have before mentioned James Havens as being in the prime of life and the vigor
                    of his days, and he was then a man of mighty energy; but with all his energy and
                    zeal, there was a decrease on the White Water circuit of twenty-one. Whether
                    Havens had any help on the circuit or not, I do not know; but I think not.
            The ardent Nehemiah B. Griffith was successful on the 
                        Connersville
                     circuit; for there was an increase of one hundred and thirty-eight,
                    which was doing well in this charge, which had only four hundred and twelve
                    members the year before.
            The preacher on the Rushville circuit was the son of James Ceggs, of
                    Clark's Grant, mentioned before as a prominent man in the early
                    territorial legislature of Indiana. I think Stephen was converted in the revival
                    when Ruter was on the circuit; but of this I am not certain. He was received on
                    trial by the 
                        Missouri
                     conference in the fall of 1822, and is yet remaining in the work,
                    and is now a member of the 
                    Rock River conference. Stephen was not a strong sermonizer,
                    but he was zealcus and very successful in winning souls. Strange used to think
                    much of him. I used to think much of his success was in consequence of the
                    prayers of his very pious mother, who loved and prayed for him very much. I am
                    sure, if all the preachers knew that their pious friends were praying daily for
                    their success, they would feel an energy, and exercise a faith to which many of
                    them are strangers. I doubt whether Stephen is as successful now as he was
                    before his sainted mother went to heaven. The Rushville circuit rose under his
                    ministry from two hundred and sixty-eight to three hundred and seventy-four,
                    being an increase of one hundred and six. Strange's popular eloquence
                    made him very useful in this new purchase, as most of Rushville circuit was then
                    called. He and Beggs loved one another very much; for I well remember how Eeggs
                    wept, and Strange sympathized, when they parted at conference as Beggs went into
                    another district.
            The zealous and successful Thomas Hewson began his work as usual on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     circuit, and would have been very useful if he had not yielded to
                    temptation. His family was afflicted, and the people did not give him that
                    support which they ought, and he became discouraged and fretful, and his former
                    bad temper revived, and he left the work and went to 
                        Bloomington
                     and studied medicine; and then went to 
                        Illinois
                     to be a physician, where he remained sometime, declining in piety,
                    and then returned to Indiana. He then went to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , a fractious and cross-grained man, who could have no hope of
                    salvation on the orthodox ground of Paul, "Without holiness no man
                    shall see God," and he, to find rest to his troubled conscience, became
                    a Univer-salist, as I have before mentioned. Had he not lost his piety, he would
                    never have become what he is in his creed. I suppose the whole history of the
                    Church will not present one case where an orthodox Christian, in the lively
                    enjoyment of religion, became a Universalist. After Hewson left the circuit,
                    Strange supplied it with Basset, as I have before mentioned. With all the
                    disadvantages of Hewson's leaving, the circuit  had considerable prosperity; for it rose from three
                    hundred and four to three hundred and seventy, being an increase of sixty-six.
            Neither James Jones nor Thomas S. Hitt traveled Flat Rock circuit, to which they
                    were appointed. Just after conference, Jones had a lovely little boy drowned,
                    which so affected him and his wife, and so exited the sympathies of the people,
                    that Strange was desired to make the Rising Sun a station, and let Jones be the
                    preacher, as lie lived there. Strange complied with their request; but the plan
                    was not attended with much success. Jones located at the close of the year and
                    so remained for several years. Hitt's health, which had been bad, still
                    grew worse, so that he was not able to attend to any regular work, but traveled
                    at large for the benefit of his health. I have forgotten what preacher or
                    preachers Strange employed on the circuit. Whether there was an increase or
                    decrease, I do not know, as the Minutes report the same number
                    as the preceding year, which is common when there is no regular report from a
                    circuit. Judging from the decrease the next year, I should suppose the circuit
                    began to decline.
            Armstrong was still powerful in revival influence on the 
                        Charlestown
                     district. It does not become me to say much about the preacher in
                    charge of 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit; but the people received him kindly, and perhaps overrated
                    his piety and talents. He spent the year comfortably to himself, and profitably
                    to his people. Two weeks after he went to the circuit, there was a camp meeting,
                    three or four miles from 
                        Charlestown
                    , in the Robinson settlement, mentioned before. He preached at this
                    camp meeting with much reluctance, but with much liberty, at eleven
                    o'clock on Sabbath, which was the first time he had done so for many
                    years, as he tried to shun popular appointments, as stated in a former number.
                    This meeting opened his way, and gave him access to a strange people, who were
                    to him a loving people. He trusts this and the succeeding year will give him
                    many stars in his crown in the day of his rejoicing. He knows of one traveling
                    preacher, who has been many years in the work, who was a  seal to his ministry on this circuit. He refers to
                    William L. Deneen, of 
                        Illinois
                    .
            Randel, his colleague, was an Englishman, who had fled from 
                        England
                     to get clear of his call to the ministry. He was an illiterate man,
                    but had more than ordinary preaching abilities. He had a wonderful memory to
                    retain all he ever read or heard. He has told me that he could repeat, almost
                    word for word, sermons which he had heard years before in 
                        England
                    . I once heard Strange say, that George Randel was the best preacher
                    he had ever heard, to be so ignorant as he was. His preaching passed well with
                    the people on the circuit; but he was not of much account in the class-room, or
                    the altar. I loved George much, and tried hard to make him a good American
                    traveling preacher; and had it not been for his terrible temper, which spoiled
                    everything, I think I could have succeeded.
            I have before stated that the circuit had a downward tendency, and needed much
                    pruning, which was attended to in the forepart of the year, so that there was a
                    very great shrinkage; but the pious people who had been groaning under the
                    burden of dead weights, sustained the preacher in the administration of
                    Discipline; and before the year closed, there was a state of much prosperity,
                    nearly all around the circuit. There was one exception, and that was in the town
                    of Jeffer-sonville, caused by a small matter well intended. The presiding elder
                    had been there before the preachers; and, to open their way, had raised the
                    expectation of the public so high, that they could not meet it, and the people
                    felt disappointed, and did not estimate them at their real worth for many
                    months. The decrease after all the pruning was only four.
            The year closed with a gracious camp meeting on the ground where the one was held
                    the fall before. At the third quarterly meeting, there were some misgivings
                    about having any camp meetings, as such meetings had become burdensome to the
                    people in their vicinity. The preacher in charge told the quarterly conference,
                    that if they would sustain him, he would remedy the evil, as he had once done on
                    White Water circuit, by a positive announcement that there would be no  provision made for persons without tents.
                    This plan seemed to alarm some, and they thought we would have scarcely any
                    congregation. Armstrong took a bold stand in favor of the preacher's
                    plan, and the quarterly conference voted in favor of the measure; and the result
                    was, the congregation was as large on Saturday evening, as it was on Sunday at
                    the middle of the day the preceding year; and no family was burdened with
                    foreigners, because they made arrangements before they left home to encamp on
                    the ground. The meeting was glorious, and some seventy, if I remember correctly,
                    gave their names as applicants for union with the Church.
            The Minutes place Samuel Low and George Locke on the Corydon
                    circuit in such a way, as to indicate that the former had charge of the circuit.
                    But when the bishop transferred Locke from 
                        Kentucky
                    , sometime after the close of the 
                        Illinois
                     conference, he gave him the charge, as he was much older in the
                    ministry than the other. These were men of God, whose praise was in all places
                    in their work. They labored in harmony; and the Head of the Church owned their
                    labors. Locke lived in 
                        New Albany
                    , where he and his wife were great blessings to the Church, which
                    grew very much. Indeed, the whole circuit was much elevated in its religious
                    character. The circuit embraced 
                  Harrison, Floyd
               , a part
                    of 
                        Clark
                    , and perhaps a part of 
                        Washington counties
                    . The increase, this year, was one hundred and fifty-four.
            This year, 
                        Salem
                     was made a station, and William Shanks, who lived a few miles from
                    it, was placed in it. This was a temporary arrangement, and mere matter of
                    experiment; for up to this time, and for several years afterward, the society in 
                        Salem
                     was very small. Many of the early settlers and prominent citizens
                    of this town were unbelievers in the truth of divine revelation, so that
                    Christianity had hard struggling for its very existence in the town. It was
                    supposed that if Shanks could preach there once of twice every Sabbath, there
                    might be a favorable impression made on the public mind; but  the expectation of the friends of the measure were
                    not realized; but doubtless some good was done.
            Previous to this time, one man who had been an infidel, and who was a man of
                    talents, was powerfully converted, and became, first, a local, and then a
                    traveling preacher. I mean Ebenezer Patrick, who was an active and useful man in
                    his day. The reader will find, in the Minutes for
                    1844–5, page 588, an account of brother Patrick. William Shanks had
                    been a member of the 
                        Baltimore
                     conference, where he traveled five years, from 1812 to 1817, when
                    he located. This year he was admitted into the 
                        Illinois
                     conference with a kind of special contract, so that when he was
                    able and labored, he was to receive support from the Church; but when on the
                    superannuated list, he was to support himself. He was a man of respectable
                    standing and talents, who will come before us again. How many members he
                    received in 
                        Salem
                    , I know not, as the number is included in that of the circuit.
            The good John Cord has been mentioned at some length before, and I will not
                    enlarge here. He had some success on 
                        Salem
                     circuit this year, for there was an increase of thirty-six. Perhaps
                    some of this increase was in Shank's work.
            John Miller, who was placed on the Paoli circuit, was pleased with the natural
                    and moral aspect of his charge. He was at the camp meeting on 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit and labored acceptably, and told me that his circuit was
                    among the most healthy parts of the country, and that he had not had what we
                    usually call a revival; but that there was a most delightful growth in the piety
                    and numbers on the circuit. The circuit rose, this year, from four hundred and
                    twenty-two to six hundred, being an increase of one hundred and seventy-eight.
                    How much better is this state of things than our land-flood revivals, which are
                    succeeded by blighting drohghts! It will be found, the next year, the good work
                    still went on. In giving the summary of this year, we still have the painful
                    task to record that six out of the fourteen charges decreased, but  the decrease was comparatively small, being only
                    ninety-four, while the other eight had an increase which amounted to six hundred
                    and eighty-two, being a net increase of five hundred and eighty-eight. This
                    prosperity was better than that of some years past, but not equal to what had
                    been enjoyed many years before.
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , June 19, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, July 31, 1846.
            No. XXVIII
            1826–27.—Amos Spark was admitted on trial by the 
                        Ohio
                     conference and placed on the Greenville circuit. What success he
                    had cannot be ascertained from the Minutes, as the number is
                    the same that it was last year, from which I infer that there was no report made
                    to conference concerning the circuit. As I do not find Spark's name on
                    the Minutes the next year, I suppose he asked a
                    discontinuance. This year we take leave of Greenville circuit, as that part of
                    it which was in Indiana will be absorbed in 
                        Wayne
                     circuit, hereafter.
            John C. Brook and Isaac C. Hunter were the preachers for 
                        Oxford
                     circuit. Brook I have before noticed as supplying this same
                    circuit, when family afniction compelled William Hunt to retire from the
                    circuit, in 1812. Brook has been for many years a superannuated preached of the 
                        Ohio
                     conference. Hunter was a man of talents, and became somewhat
                    eminent. He died a few years since, while filling the office of presiding elder
                    on the 
                        Marietta
                     district. He was nearly forty-four years old at his death, and had
                    given the best of his life to the Church. The reader will find an account of him
                    in the Minutes for 1842, page 315. These brethren had some
                    success; for there was an increase of twenty-three on the circuit, which had
                    been nearly stationary the last three years.
            John Strange still remained on the 
                        Madison
                     district, and was still useful. 
                        Madison
                     station, Calvin W. Ruter; 
                        Madison
                    
                     circuit, James Scott and Daniel Newton; 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , James L. Thompson and George Randal; White Water, James Havens and
                    John T. Johnson; 
                        Connersville
                    , Robert Burns; Rushville, Nehemiah E. Griffeth; 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Edwin Ray: Flat Rock, Abner H. Chever. James Armstrong was still
                    the zealous presiding eider on the 
                        Charlestown
                     district. 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, Allen Wiley and James Garner; Corydon, George Lock end
                    Samuel Low; 
                        Salem
                    , William Shanks and John Hogan; Paoli, William H. Smith and Smith
                    L. Robinson.
            The last number informed the readed that Ruter filled the Nadison station a part
                    of the last year; and he was now made supernumerary, and sent to this station,
                    where he was well received and useful. There was a remarkably pleasant meeting
                    held in this charge this year in the open air at the end of the meeting-house.
                    The friends fixed forks in the ground, and placed poles on them, and then
                    covered a space about sixty feet by eighty with brush, with leaves on so as to
                    make a good shade, where they had public worship four times every day and night
                    for several days. As camp meetings are going out of use, it would be well if our
                    friends would make such arrangements as this for all their summer quarterly
                    meetings, as our houses will not hold the people in our populous circuits.
            Not long since I preached at the quarterly meeting for Rrookville circuit, when
                    the house held about one-third of the people, and the others had to stand round
                    the house and hear as well as they could, or go away and not hear at all; and
                    the conseyucncc was, the preacher and people felt unpleasant, and little or no
                    good was done. With such an arrangement as this all could have heard. As
                    Ruter's charge was between my home and my work, and as I preached in
                    the station fifteen times that year, I had a correct knowledge of the state of
                    thing, and can say the society was healthy and prosperous. The increase was
                    thirty-eight; for the station rose from one hundred and thirty to one hundred
                    and sixty-eight. This was a small society to support a married man.
            James Scott, who appeared before us at an early day on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     circuit, and who located at the end of that year, was readmitted
                    and sent to the charge of 
                        Madison
                     circuit.  Daniel Newton, his
                    colleague, had just been received, and had no experience as a traveling
                    preacher. He was a man of feeble body, and a similar mind, who meant well; but
                    had hardly any energy or zeal. This was not a prosperous year for the circuit.
                    There was something of a revival in Rising Sun; but it passed away as a morning
                    cloud. There was a camp meeting near the close of the year on the camp ground
                    near Simeon Slawson's, at which some good was done; but some fellows of
                    the baser sort interrupted the meeting. Samuel C. Cooper, of the North Indiana
                    conference, was at the meeting, and he took them in hand and suppressed their
                    mischief. My son, Melville, was converted at this meeting in his fourteenth
                    year. He lost ground in religion, but was reclaimed, and became a minister, and
                    traveled three years and died; and his body now sleeps about two or three
                    hundred yards from where he was first converted. The circuit decreased
                    twenty-eight in its membership.
            Thompson and Randal began well on 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit; but family affliction kept Thompson at home a long time,
                    and there were many disappointments, and the people became dissatisfied, and
                    turned their regards almost wholly to Randal, who took no pains to explain the
                    reason of Thompson's disappointments; but when Thompson could leave
                    home, and explained the reasons of his absence, many blamed Randal, and the
                    circuit became divided into two parties—a Thompson party, and a
                    Randal party; and instead of paying the quarterly suppori in the regular way,
                    the friends of the one would make him presents, and the friends of the other
                    would do the same, so that each preacher probably received nearly his full
                    support, while the steward's books reported but a small amount. How
                    Strange fared in this state of things, I do not know; but the probability is, he
                    received his share of presents too. When things began to react in
                    Thompson's favor, Randal became chafed in his dealings, and located at
                    the end of the year with much sourness in his heart. The reader will readily
                    conclude, that the circuit fared badly under the circumstances named; and there
                    was a decrease of twenty-nine. I mention these disagreeable matters as a warning
                    to all  preachers and people, not to
                    countenance such an iniquitous course as was pursued this year on the circuit.
                    Having gone the next year to the circuit, I know the mischief which it did to
                    the circuit.
            White Water circuit now revived under the powerful labors of James Havens, and
                    Constant E. Jones, who was employed by Strange to assist Havens on this heavy
                    circuit. Johnson, whose name stands on the Minutes in
                    connection with this circuit, had just been received and had not such experience
                    and talent for preaching, and he had no energy at all; and the people were so
                    much dissatisfied, that Strange moved him to Flat Rock circuit, where he was
                    better received and he finally became a man of respectable talents as a
                    preacher, and before he left Indiana, he was a man of considerable popularity
                    about Vernon, where he lived. He will come before us again. The increase on the
                    White Water circuit this year was one hundred and six; and the circuit now
                    numbered one thousand and twenty-seven, and was deemed sufficiently strong to
                    divide at the next conference.
            Robert Burns, who was sent to 
                        Connersville
                    , had been a local preacher of some years' standing in 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana. He was admitted on trial this year, and still belongs
                    to the traveling connection, having been located a short time. He is now
                    superannuated. He was very well received, and was successful. The increase this
                    year was sixty-four, and the circuit now numbered six hundred and fourteen.
            Griffith had a good year on Rushville, and his increase was one hundred and
                    eight; and the circuit now numbered four hundred and eighty-two. He had help on
                    the circuit a part of the year; for Strange employed John Hardy to travel. John
                    was the son of the venerable Charles Hardy, mentioned in a former number, as
                    having been a traveling preacher about sixty years ago. John was zealous and
                    useful. He will come before us next year.
            Edwin Ray, the preacher on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     circuit, was the son of John Ray, who lived in 
                        Kentucky
                     at that time; but he subsequently moved to Indiana, as he was
                    utterly unwilling to die and be buried in a slave state. He had most ardently
                         opposed slavery all his life. The first
                    mention of John Ray, which I find on the Minutes, is in 1792,
                    when he is said to remain on trial, so that he must have commenced in 1791; but
                    his name is not on the Minutes for that year, as received on
                    trial or appointed to any work. I cannot harmonize the Minutes, unless he was employed by an elder; and the time he was so
                    employed made a part of his probation. The account of his death in the Minutes, volume, second, page 572, says he began to travel in
                    1790; but I think this date is a mistake, unless there are private documents
                    which show that he was employed by an elder then. He traveled ten years, and
                    then located, and so remained eighteen years, when he commenced traveling again,
                    and continued to do so as long as he was able. He was transferred to the Indiana
                    conference, of which he died a member and is buried about four miles north of 
                        Greencastle
                    , near a country chapel. When I saw the place, there was no monument
                    to tell where this early servant of the Church lay.
            Edwin was a talented, good, unsuspecting young man. He commenced traveling in the
                    fall of 1822, when he was a few months over nineteen years old. He traveled two
                    years in 
                        Kentucky
                     and was then transferred to the 
                        Illinois
                     conference, where he filled five appointments, and his health
                    failed, and he was superannuated, and he settled near 
                        Indianapolis
                    , with a view of farming; but in the spring he consented to leave
                    home, a distance of some eighty miles, to preach in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , which was constituted a station. His health having improved some,
                    he was appointed the next year to that charge, where he closed his work, and
                    started to 
                        Indianapolis
                     with his family; but he had only gone ten miles, when he was
                    confined, and shortly after died, and was taken from the evil to come, to which
                    he would have been exposed in his feeble state of health. The reader will find
                    an account of him in the Minutes, volume second, page 160. He
                    had a revival in all the charges in which he labored in Indiana; and there are
                    now some worthy and talented preachers in Indiana who are the fruits of his
                    labor, two of whom have filled important ports in the Church. I refer to John
                    Kerns and John C.  Smith. He had glorious
                    times on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     circuit, which was large and beyond his strength, for here his
                    constitution began to give way. The increase on the circuit was two hundred and
                    eighty-five, which was within eighty-five of doubling the circuit; for it rose
                    from three hundred and seventy to six hundred and fifty-five. Much of this
                    revival was in the town of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where our Church had not been very prominent. There was a good
                    camp meeting some two miles southeast of the town, at which much good was done.
                    This year the Church made arrangements to build a good meeting house in the town
                    near what is called the Governor's Circle, but I believe they did not
                    succeed in inclosing it until the next summer; for it was not finished when I
                    first preached in it in the fall of 1828. The house was a good brick house, and
                    of ample size for the then population; but has become too small, and is being
                    superseded by a more noble structure of the same ground.
            Abner H. Chever was a man of good sense, and had just been received as trial,
                    when he was sent to Flat Rock circuit, in the bounds of which he lived. His
                    preaching was not of the popular kind, neither was it of a revival cast.
                    Johnson, his colleague, a part of the year passed better than he did on White
                    Water; but his preaching was not calculated to promote a revival, and the
                    circuit declined sixty-four in its membership.
            Armstrong was sent to the 
                        Charlestown
                     district the third year, where he labored with his usual zeal and
                    success.
            This was another year of comfort and success to Wiley, where he had for his
                    colleague the good James Garner, mentioned in a former number, in connection
                    with Flat Rock circuit. The Lord gave prosperity and the circuit increased
                    sixty-nine in its membership, which was the first year of increase in the last
                    five years. The circuit now numbered one thousand and forty-nine. Sometime in
                    May of this year, there was a good camp meeting held about ten miles west of 
                        Madison
                    , near Ramsey's mills, in which the 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit and 
                        Madison
                     station united. The arrangement was to have Strange and Armstrong
                    and the preachers of both charges,  and as
                    many other good preachers as could be had at the meeting; but
                    Armstrong's arrangement kept him away; Gut there was much help of a
                    good and popular kind. The meeting was a popular one, at which much good was
                    done; especially in the increased piety of the members in both charges. To human
                    view, much more good would have been done if the meeting had not been
                    interrupted by a thunder gust on Sunday evening, which prevented any public
                    service. O, what a scattering there is of the preachers who were at that
                    meeting! Strange and old brother Morrow are gone to heaven, Hitt to 
                        Wisconsin
                    , Garner and Johnson to 
                        Illinois
                    , and others to other places. Ruter, Wiley, Gamaliel Taylor, Hester,
                    and perhaps others remain in Indiana and will not likely ever all meet again.
            The increase of the membership on 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit was not the only good which was done. The circuit, with all
                    its members and wealth had not been a good one of late years for support. Wiley
                    only received about one hundred and twelve or fourteen dollars each year he was
                    on it; but this matter was so fully laid before the people in the course of this
                    year, that it is presumed his successors received their full quarterage. The
                    year was closed with a good camp meeting, and the whole circuit was in a
                    prosperous state; for a glorious revival came the next year, as we shall see.
            Locke and Lowe did not abate in their zeal and labors on Corydon and success
                    still attended their efforts, and the circuit still went on in its religious
                    improvement, and had an increase of one hundred and forty-three. The circuit now
                    numbered nine hundred and forty-nine.
            Salemtown and the surrounding circuit were again united, and William Shanks
                    placed in charge of the whole, and John Hogan, who had been recommended by the
                    quarterly meeting conference of the 
                        Baltimore
                     station, and who had traveled to the west with Bishop Soule, was
                    received by the 
                        Illinois
                     conference, and was Shanks' colleague. John had been
                    reared a Catholic, but had been soundly converted to the Lord; and by necessary
                    consequence had been converted from Catholicism to Protestantism. He was a
                    useful young man, who  traveled four years
                    and located, and went into business in the western part of 
                        Illinois
                    ; and the last I heard of him, he was prospering, and was a man of
                    considerable influence. According to the Minutes, the circuit
                    did not prosper this year; for there was a decrease of one hundred and
                    sixty-five. See some remarks on the numbers of this circuit at the close of our
                    account of it for the next year.
            William H. Smith, the preacher in charge of Paoli circuit, commenced traveling in
                    the fall of 1822, and is yet in the work; but his health is such, that he has
                    had to be superannuated several times. Perhaps there are few men who have seen
                    more hard frontier service than he. He was, and still is, more zealous than his
                    constitution can bear; and the prospect is, that he must be a feeble and
                    suffering man all his days. When he had health, he had success. His colleague
                    had just been received on trial. He had a vigorous mind, and he was untiring in
                    his application, and energetic in all he did, so that he became eminent as a
                    preacher for one of his years. He continued traveling in different parts of
                    Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     until the fall of 1835, when he was stationed in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , where he resolved on rearing and sustaining a female school of a
                    high order. He made some progress in building for that purpose, and had obtained
                    an amiable and promising young lady from the east to teach the school; but in a
                    few days after her arrival she died. Just before the conference, he went to see
                    some of his friends in 
                        Kentucky
                     or the south of Indiana, and came to conference afflicted in his
                    eye, for he had but one, having lost the other when he was a child. His main
                    theme of conversation and consultation with his friends was about his school, on
                    which his heart was set; but innocently so. Before the conference closed, his
                    eye became inflamed, and the inflamation extended to his brain; and a few days
                    after the conference closed, and most of the preachers had left 
                        Indianapolis
                    , he died; and his body now sleeps by the side of John
                    Strange's body in the old 
                        Indianapolis
                     grave-yard. There is a short account of him in the Minutes, volume second, page 572. Smith and Robinson labored hard, and
                    success attended their exertions, and they had an increase of two hundred  at the end of the year. The circuit now
                    numbered eight hundred.
            This year was one of more prosperity than some former ones; for nine charges had
                    an increase of one thousand and thirty-six, while four decreased two hundred and
                    eighty-six leaving a net increase of seven hundred and fifty, and from one
                    circuit we have no certain account.
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , June 17, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, September 4. 1846.
            No. XXIX
            1827–28.—John P. Taylor and Benjamin Lawrence traveled 
                        Oxford
                     circuit this year, and they had an increase of nine in their work.
                    This year I take my leave of 
                        Oxford
                     circuit, as the next fall the Indiana preachers occupied all its
                    territory which was in Indiana. I also take my leave of Benjamin Lawrence, who
                    has been before us so often; and I merely introduce John P. Taylor, and then
                    take my leave of him. He and the writer were examined and admitted into full
                    connection at the same time, in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , in the summer of 1819. Taylor was a regularly read physician, and
                    was a man of a good general education, and passed his examination well. He was a
                    talented, eloquent, and popular preacher; but not very energetic. His health
                    failed, and he was superannuated; and he and another superannuated preacher
                    named Wilson, now I believe of one of the 
                        Texas
                     conferences, commenced the mercantile business, which, I suppose,
                    neither of them understood, and the consequence was a failure. Taylor was
                    respectably connected in his family relations, and had been a man of honorable
                    standing; and such was his mortification, that he absurdly sought relief for his
                    troubled mind in a course of backsliding, and he was expelled by the 
                        Ohio
                     conference in 1836. He moved to Indiana and was reclaimed, and I
                    believe he now lives in a village in 
                  Henry
                            county, Ia.
               , and  stands as an
                    acceptable local preacher. O, that men would take warning, and never enter into
                    business for which they are not qualified.
            John Strange still remained on 
                        Madison
                     district. 
                        Madison
                     station, Edwin Ray; 
                        Madison
                     circuit, James Garner and Abner H. Chever; 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit, Allen Wiley and Daniel Newton; 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     station, James L. Thompson; White Water circuit, Thomas S. Hitt and
                    James Scott; 
                        Wayne
                    , Stephen R. Beggs and William Evans; 
                        Connersville
                    , Robert Burns; Rushville, James Havens; 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Nehemiah B. Griffith; 
                        Columbus
                    , Constant B. Jones; Vernon, Henry Buell; James Armstrong was the
                    presiding elder for the 
                        Charlestown
                     district. 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, George Locke, Calvin W. Ruter, sup., and Enoch G. Wood;
                    Corydon, John W. M'Reynolds and Samuel Low; 
                        Salem
                    , William Shanks and John Hardy; Paoli, William Moore and James
                    MKean.
            Strange was now on his fourth and last year on the 
                        Madison
                     district, and still retained his eminent standing and usefulness.
                    Ray, the preacher in 
                        Madison
                    , was well received, and labored with success in his charge, and he
                    occasionally attended popular meetings in the surrounding country, and God gave
                    him seals to his ministry in almost every place where he labored. The increase
                    in the station was thirty-four, and the charge now numbered two hundred and two.
            Garner and Cheever, although good men, and good preachers, were not men of the
                    most popular and successful talents, and the circuit rather declined, so that
                    there was a decrease in the 
                        Madison
                     circuit of thirty-four.
            This year witnessed a most novel arrangement in the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     work. James L. Thompson had been two years on the circuit, and the
                    people, especially those out of Church, wished to retain him longer; and it was
                    proposed to the bishop to make a station to include old and 
                        new Lawrenceburg
                    , Elizabethtown, and Hardinsburg. The preachers on the circuit were
                    to preach in these towns regularly and receive the regular quarterage, and
                    Thompson to fill the intervening Sabbaths and have the pastoral charge of the
                    societies, and be supported by the people out of Church. It was expected that
                    these towns  would return to the circuit at
                    the end of the year; for the arrangement was considered as only temporary.
                    Doubtless the reader will say, that this arrangement was wholly
                    unconstitutional; for by changing the towns into a station every two years, the
                    same man could have been kept in the same work all his life; for at the close of
                    the station arrangement, he might have gone on the circuit. When the first
                    quarterly meeting came on, and Strange attempted to organize a quarterly
                    conference for the station, the question arose, Are the preachers on the
                    circuit, who preach to the people in the station and receive their quarterage,
                    members of the station quarterly conference? For they have no pastoral charge in
                    the station. This was a perplexing matter, and many of the principal members
                    were so dissatisfied with the whole arrangement, that Strange thought it best to
                    place the societies in the towns under the charge of the preacher in charge of
                    the circuit; so that Thompson labored the whole year without any charge, and was
                    supported by the people out of Church at least so far as regular quarterage
                    funds were concerned. How far those funds were diminished by this novel thing,
                    none can tell. On our way from conference, Bishop Roberts rode up to me and said
                    he wished me not to let this singular arrangement hurt my feelings; and said he
                    was informed that Thompson's finances were in such a state, that he had
                    to be accommodated in that way, or he must leave the work. I told him that I
                    would try not to be afflicted; but I said I knew people would be dissatisfied,
                    as they always had been utterly unwilling to have more burden than one married
                    and one single preacher on that work, and except when Lambdin had been employed
                    by the presiding elder that had been the plan; but now there were three
                    families, and two of them heavy, sent there to be supported. This seemed to
                    surprise him, for he thought Newton was a single man. He then inquired of
                    Strange to know why he had been deceived in that matter, when Strange said I
                    told you distinctly that Newton was a married man, but I believe you as
                    distinctly forgot it. The bishop then said, if I had known that I should not
                    have made such an arrangement.
            
            Strange had two ends in view in favoring the plan stated. Although we were warm
                    friends, we took different sides on Newton's case at conference.
                    Strange plead that he might be dropped, and I that he might have a longer trial;
                    and the conference continued him. I supposed there were parts of the work where
                    he might be useful, but never dreamed of him being placed on one of the first
                    circuits in the conference; but Strange thought he would afflict me a little by
                    letting me have the burden of the man for whom I plead. He also thought that the
                    people would reject him, and in that way we would get clear of him; but the
                    people respected the authority of the appointing power too much to rebel,
                    however little they might approve of the appointment. There we were, three
                    families to be supported, or go without support. I received about one hundred
                    and twelve or fourteen dollars, and Newton something less, for he had a less
                    family than I had; and that year, for the first time I insisted on abiding by
                    the rule in that matter. What Thompson received, I do not know; but I think it
                    probable as much as both the preachers on the circuit.
            If I were to say I did not feel oppressed, I should be insincere. I did feel that
                    I was oppressed; and now, although the feeling is gone, my judgment is, that it
                    was a case of oppression, such as I have never known before or since. In view of
                    the appointment which Heaven foresaw that I was to receive the next year to the
                    district, I have since regarded this painful matter as providential, and
                    intended to teach me to feel for my brethren in their embarrassments, as I could
                    not otherwise have felt. This historical fact will enable the superintendents
                    and others to see why I look more to these matters than some others in
                    stationing the preachers. Strange said, if he had not known me and Thompson to
                    be peaceable men, he would not have favored this strange arrangement. This
                    consideration, however, should never induce the appointing power to place men in
                    a situation to be severely tempted. In this matter, the goodness and kindness of
                    Bishop Roberts' heart had the ascendancy over his better judgment, for
                    although there was not a violation of the letter of a fundamental law, yet in
                    the spirit, and tendency it was most assuredly a  violation; and had any one complained to the
                    General conference, P have no doubt that that body would have deemed it such.
                    The preachers moved on as well as they could do, for they felt trammeled, and
                    they did not do much good, and the whole work did not return as many members as
                    were returned the year before; for there was a decrease of twenty-six. At the
                    end of the year, Newton retired from the work; and what has become of him, I do
                    not know. I have stated the facts of this year as an admonition to those who
                    made appointments.
            Thomas S. Hitt arid James Scott were acceptable on the south part of the White
                    Water circuit. This part retained the old name when the circuit was divided. Wow
                    successful they were we do not know, as we do not know how many of the thousand
                    and twenty-seven members returned the year before fell to their share. They
                    reported five hundred and seventy-seven.
            Beggs, the preacher in charge of 
                        Wayne
                     circuit, has been noticed before. His colleague was a young man of
                    great firmness, but of no preaching talents, and of but little zeal. He will
                    come before us again. He traveled a few years, and located; and where he is now,
                    I do not know.
            These brethren labored faithfully, and returned seven hundred and twenty-four
                    members, so that the increase on the two circuits made out of the old White
                    Water circuit, was two hundred and seventy-four. I suppose 
                        Wayne
                     circuit had more increase than White Water, but the actual increase
                    is not what it appears to be; for that part of Greenville circuit which lay in
                    Indiana was detached, and incorporated with 
                        Wayne
                     circuit, so that it cannot now be known what the actual increase
                    was.
            Robert Burns, who was in charge of 
                        Connersville
                     circuit, was on his second year in the traveling connection and
                    also on the circuit where he passed well. Strange employed a man named William
                    Taylor to travel with Burns. Taylor was a man of some parts, and had some zeal
                    as a preacher; but in other things, he was a worthless man. He was afterwards
                    admitted on trial; and at the Indiana conference, in 1832, was about to be
                    continued, when I arose and said I wanted an  unequivocal answer to a question which I was about to propose. I then asked,
                    Is not this man a most outrageous lazy man? This question led to developments of
                    the most shameful character. It was stated, that when he came home his wife led
                    the beast to the stable and fed it, and when he was about to start she saddled
                    it and led it to the house for him, and that she had often to cut the wood and
                    generally make the fires, even when Taylor was at home. The consequence of these
                    disclosures was, that the conference dropped him instanter. He was subsequently
                    received on trial by the 
                        Illinois
                     conference, but was afterward expelled from the Church. I have
                    known several men, who were shamefully lazy, enter the ministry, and seem to
                    have some ministerial zeal, but generally they have fallen, and not infrequently
                    by shameful deeds. Let lazy persons take heed, or Satan will get them all; and
                    take heed, ye conferences, that ye receive not men into your ranks who are too
                    lazy to work with their hands, and make a living for themselves and families.
            James Havens was now sent to Rushville circuit, within the bounds of which he had
                    purchased land and settled his family, and they have remained in that vicinity
                    ever since. He had not much success in that large and then muddy circuit; for
                    there was a decrease of eighty-seven. I have before described this circuit, or I
                    would now show the reader what kind of a field this man had this and the next
                    year. In view of the hard times through which he has passed for many years, is
                    there anything wrong, if he should be favored a little in his appointments in
                    the days of age and decline? I pity the heart of the man who can envy him.
            The zealous Griffith labored hard on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     circuit and had good success in his labors; for the circuit
                    increased sixty-five. This increase, after an increase the previous year of two
                    hundred and eighty-five, was as much as we could expect; for generally our great
                    ingatherings have a most painful reaction. Griffith did not suit the taste of
                    the people in the town quite so well as in the country, but he passed
                    respectably even in the town. Strange employed a young man named John Van Cleve
                    to travel a part of the  year on the circuit
                    with Griffith. Van Cleve was received on trial in the fall, and is yet in the
                    work in 
                        Illinois
                    , and has become a man of some eminence among his brethren.
            The vague name of the Flat Rock circuit was now lost from the Minutes; but we have in its place the names of 
                        Columbus
                     and Vernon circuits. Constant B. Jones, who had been the helper of
                    James Havens a part of the preceding year, was now received on trial and
                    appointed to 
                        Columbus
                     circuit. Jones was well received, and had some success in his
                    labors, how much I do not know; for I do not know how many of the members fell
                    to his share of the divided Flat Rock circuit. He returned five hundred and
                    sixty members.
            Henry Buell, who had been one year in the work, was sent to the Vernon part of
                    the old Flat Rock circuit. He had some revivals, but what was the amount of his
                    success cannot be ascertained, because it is not known how many members fell to
                    his share. He returned three hundred and eleven. The two circuits now numbered
                    eight hundred and ninety-three, which was a good increase. Buell was another
                    indolent man, who seemed for some years to have much zeal, and made much
                    intellectual and ministerial improvement. He, however, got into difficulties in
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     country, and was expelled from the Church. The last I heard of him
                    he was living in an obscure part in the south of 
                        Missouri
                    , or north of 
                        Arkansas
                    , and preaching Universalism. The reader must perceive how readily
                    backsliders and apostates fall into the devil's doctrine, "Ye
                    shall not surely die."
            Armstrong was now on the 
                        Charlestown
                     district his fourth and last year. He was still zealous and
                    successful to the last.
            The preachers on the 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit labored with zeal and great success. Ruter had been
                    appointed to 
                        Salem
                     circuit, but as he was only supernumerary, and not able to do much,
                    the appointment was changed, and he appointed to 
                        Charlestown
                    , where he did what he could. Wood was then young, and ardent, and
                    successful. The circuit rose from one thousand and forty-nine to fourteen
                    hundred and forty-one, being an increased of three hundred and ninety-two. If
                    the circuit had then been divided into two or three  circuits, there would not have been the shrinkage
                    that followed in the few succeeding years; for when preachers have more members
                    than they can well take care of, they are not so zealous to enlarge their bounds
                    and increase their numbers.
            This year the General conference elected Charles Holliday, of the 
                        Wabash
                     district, Book Agent, in consequence of which Locke, in the midst
                    of his success, was taken from Charles-town circuit to fill the vacant district.
                    I think Armstrong employed Cornelius Ruddle, a popular local preacher, to fill
                    Locke's place on the circuit so that the work received no check. Ruddle
                    will come before us again next year.
            John W. M'Reynolds, the preacher in charge of Corydon circuit, had been
                    received on trial by the 
                        Tennessee
                     conference in the fall of 1820; and after traveling two years he
                    located, and so remained until the summer of 1825, when he was again admitted to
                    the traveling connection. By marriage, he had become the owner of several
                    slaves; and I remember the conference made strict inquiry whether he had
                    manumitted them. He continued to travel several years, and fill important
                    appointments, when personal and family afflictions compelled him to
                    superannuate, and so remain until the fall of 1841, when he located. He was an
                    excellent man, who has had a large share of family affection. I believe he now
                    lives in 
                        Paris
                    , III. Samuel Low was on the circuit the third year, which the rule
                    permitted, as he was supernumerary. The circuit did not prosper this year as in
                    the two precediug years; for there was a decrease of eight in the membership.
            William Shanks, before mentioned, was again sent to 
                        Salem
                     circuit; and the Minutes place John Hardy, before
                    mentioned in connection with Rushville circuit, as the colleague of Shanks.
                    John, however, never went to the circuit; for his brother died, and he was
                    unwilling to leave his aged and venerable father. He remained several years a
                    good plain local preacher, and died and went home to rest, and was taken from
                    the evil to come; for he, like many others, had become a merchant, for which he
                    was not qualified, and left his estate embarrassed. What preacher Armstrong
                    employed to help Shanks, I have forgotten, if I ever knew. The Minutes
                     report an increase this year of three
                    hundred and twenty-six. There seems something strange to me about the numbers on
                    this circuit. Last year it lost one hundred and sixty-five, and this year it
                    gained more than three hundred. I should judge there is some typographical error
                    in the case, There may have been changes of appointments; for there was
                    constituted a circuit last year called 
                        Washington
                    , which may have encroached on the Paoli circuit, and the Paoli on
                    the 
                        Salem
                    , and this year there may have been some changing back again; but
                    this is mere conjecture, and I leave it. If 
                        Salem
                     circuit had the increase named, there must have been glorious
                    revivals within its bounds.
            William Moore, the preacher in charge of Paoli circuit, was a good man, about
                    whom I know but little. He was received on trial by the 
                        Missouri
                     conference in the fall of 1823, and continued to travel until some
                    time in the year 1832, when he died at 
                  Charlestown, Clark
                    county
               , Ia. His travels were extensive, being in
                            
                  Missouri, Illinois
               , and Indiana. He
                    was never eminent; but, to some extent useful. His widow is reckoned among the
                    deserving claimants on the Indiana conference from year to year. James
                    M'Kean had been received that year, and was young in the ministry. He
                    is yet in the ministry as a traveling preacher, in the Rock
                    River conference. At that time both the brethren were men of moderate
                    talents but their labors were successful to some extent; for there was an
                    increase of one hundred and fifty on the circuit.
            Our summary, this year, is a cheering one; for nine circuits and one station had
                    an increase of fifteen hundred and seventy-six, while only four had a decrease,
                    amounting to one hundred and fifty-five, leaving a net increase of fourteen
                    hundred and twenty-one. Thanks to the Holy One. for his goodness to his
                    servants, in turning their comparative adversity into a stream of prosperity.
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , June 17, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, Sept. 11, 1846.
            
            No. XXX
            1828–29—The 
                        Illinois
                     conference met this year on the 9th of October in 
                        Madison
                    , la., which was the first time that conference was held in that
                    town. The weather was remarkably warm and dry, so that our friends covered a
                    large space at the end of the meeting-house, which made a delightfully cool
                    place, in which to worship. Large crowds attended the ministrations of the
                    strangers, who preached to them with much ability and to edification. Bishop
                    Roberts preached on Sabbath forenoon from a favorite text in Jeremiah, ninth
                    chapter, twenty-third and twenty-fourth verses. The sermon was a good one, but
                    was below what the Bishop usually accomplished on such occasions. John F.
                    Wright, of the 
                        Ohio
                     conference, preached, in the afternoon; and in a plain, natural
                    way, wonderfully interested the congregation. Thomas A. Morris, who was then
                    about being transferred from the 
                        Kentucky
                     to the 
                        Ohio
                     conference, preached one night, and the people were delighted with
                    the performance. At that conference, Armstrong said to me, "I set that
                    man down for one of our future bishops." This shows
                    Armstrong's discrimination; for I should then as soon have thought of a
                    hundred other men. In little more than seven years and a half,
                    Armstrong's declaration to me, which he charged me to mark, was
                    realized by the election of the brother named to the office of general
                    superintendent; but Armstrong did not live to see it.
            This year, the 
                        Madison
                     district had a new presiding elder, in the person of Allen Wiley,
                    who ardently loved his brethren in the ministry and the people of his and their
                    charge, and did the best he could to promote the prosperity of the district. He
                    hopes to meet the men with whom he was that year associated, six of whom, at
                    least, are gone to a world of spirits. The appointments were: 
                        Madison
                     station, Edwin Ray; 
                        Madison
                     circuit, Cornelius Ruddle and Abner H. Chever; Law-renceburg,
                    Nehemiah B. Griffith and Enoch G. Wood; White Water, James L. Thompson; 
                        Wayne
                    , Robert Burns; Conners-ville, William Evans; Rushville, James
                    Havens, sup., and  John Kerns; 
                        Fall Creek
                    , Charles Bonner; 
                        Indianapolis
                     station, James Armstrong; 
                        Columbus
                     circuit, Asa Beek.
            The people on 
                        Charlestown
                     district were expecting and wishing Strange to be sent to that
                    field of labor; for those who knew him admired him and those who had heard of
                    him expected to admire him; and their wishes and expectations were met by his
                    appointment to the district. The other appointments were: 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, John W. M'Reynolds and James Scott; Corydon,
                    Thomas Davies and Stith M. Ot-well; 
                        Salem
                    , John Hogan and Michael S. Taylor; Paoli, Daniel Anderson; Vernon,
                    John T. Johnson.
            When Edwin Ray was reappointed to 
                        Madison
                    , he hung suspended between life and death with a violent fever, so
                    that he was made supernumerary, with the expectation that the elder would have
                    to supply the place. Ray was unable to do anything until the first quarterly
                    meeting, and the charge was filled by R. Hargrave, who was superannuated by the
                    conference. The people admired his talents; but the length of his sermons was
                    objectionable.
            
               
                        Madison
                     station had been somewhat convulsed by what was callea the Radical
                    controversy, and Ray preached some on the subject, but to little profit; and,
                    finally, a number of our friends withdrew, and formed a separate church, which
                    flourished or seemed to flourish very much, so that they grew to be some three
                    hundred strong, as one, who was with them has since told me. They built a good
                    meetinghouse on Third street, where they worshiped some years; but after a
                    season they began to decline, and the larger part of the valuable members who
                    had left us returned; and at some times our Protestant brethren did not keep up
                    any regular public worship in the house; and the Third street charge of the
                    Methodist Episcopal Church had the occupancy of the house more than two years. I
                    believe the Protestant Methodists are trying to resuscitate their church in the
                    town; but it will be as the former effort, an entire failure; for their former
                    want of permanent success will hang as a heavy incubus on any future attempt.
            With all the convulsions and withdrawals of this year, we  had most excellent meetings, and the station
                    increased forty-five in its membership, and the year closed pleasantly, and Ray
                    left with many good friends, and seals to his ministry.
            Cornelius Ruddle, mentioned before in connection with 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, was received on trial, being more than fifty years old,
                    and placed on 
                        Madison
                     circuit. He was a man of great energy and popularity—had
                    very little variety in his public performances; but his charming voice, and
                    vehement and pathetic manner, would make an old sermon warm the hearts of those
                    who had heard it many times. He traveled the year out, and then married and
                    retired from the traveling ranks, as he was a man of much suffering from a
                    painful disease. He was, to some extent, useful on the circuit. Chever, his
                    colleague, was only nominally a preacher; for he was so afflicted that he did
                    not preach once during the year, and he so entirely lost his voice that he did
                    not preach for many years, if he ever did. What has become of him, I know not.
            Samuel Brenton, now of the North Indiana conference, was then a young exhorter in
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     charge. He was of excellent parentage, and gave some promise of
                    usefulness; and I sent him to travel with Ruddle, until I could procure a
                    suitable preacher. Early in the spring Strange sent me Lorenzo D. Smith, a young
                    man who had been recently licensed to preach in 
                        Greencastle
                     circuit. Smith was sent to take Brenton's place. He was
                    young and timid, but a talented young man; and if he had been uniformly stable
                    in his purpose to do only the work of the Lord, he would have been a man of much
                    eminence. He will come before us again.
            There was a good camp meeting at the close of the year, where much good was done;
                    and one man, now in the ministry was converted at it. Griffith and Wood attended
                    this meeting on their way to conference, which met at the close of that year at
                    Edwardsville, III., some twenty or twenty-five miles from 
                        St. Louis
                    . These brethren, and George K. Hester, who came to see his friends
                    with whom he had formerly traveled, were of much service to us at the meeting.
                    This camp meeting was in a part of the country, which is now about the centre of
                    Moorefield circuit, 
                        Madison
                     circuit.
            
            Griffith and Wood were flaming heralds in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit who gave themselves wholly to the work, and great was their
                    success. Almost every part of the circuit was in a state of religious excitement
                    and many souls were converted. If I mistake not, Elijah Whitten of the Indiana
                    conference, and dames V. Watson, of the 
                        Michigan
                     conference, were converted this year. There were some painful
                    Church difficulties, but they did not seem to retard the work in the least. The
                    last quarterly meeting was a glorious camp meeting near Mt.
                    Tabor meeting-house, on the dividing land between Laughery and Hogan.
                    The year closed with an increase of two hundred and fourteen on the circuit.
                    This was like a refreshing shower to the thirsty land and parched vegetation;
                    for the circuit had decreased the four preceding years, and two out of four
                    prior to these four years there was a very small increase, and the other two a
                    decrease, so that for eight years the prospects had not been very flattering. I
                    doubt whether Griffith ever had another year equally successful in his lifetime;
                    and I presume Wood has never been so successful since.
            Thompson was well received on White Water, and was useful to the people. As we
                    wished to occupy our territory which had been in 
                        Oxford
                     circuit, we needed another preacher; and 
                        Providence
                     sent us just the man we wanted. At the first quarterly meeting
                    Richard S. Robinson came to us meek and lowly, wishing to be employed in the
                    itinerant work. He came using his own feet as the means of conveyance carrying
                    his all on his arm. He exhorted on Saturday night in a most pathetic strain, and
                    the quarterly conference, which met on adjournment after the night meeting on
                    other business, wished me to employ him; and I did so, and have never regreted
                    it. A good but poor brother lent ‘him an animal to ride until the
                    friends collected donations to buy him a horse. Robinson is still in the work,
                    and often looks back to those days, and speaks of them as an important era in
                    his history; and he does not, like some vain persons when they see better days,
                    seem ashamed of the days of his humiliation. He gratefully ascribes to the
                    Church and his brethren, under God, all the standing and influence which he has
                    in the world.
            
            These brethren labored in most pleasant unity, and they had good times on the
                    circuit and there was an increase of one hundred and eighty-nine in the charge.
                    There was not, however, that much clear gain, as a part of the apparent increase
                    came from 
                        Oxford
                     circuit. Perhaps there was a very little net gain; but it was a
                    year of peace and comfort.
            Burns was sent alone to the heavy 
                        Wayne
                     circuit, and it was desirable to have help for him, and it came in
                    March in the person of Spencer W. Hunter, whom Strange sent from 
                        Greencastle
                     at the same time ha sent Smith, mentioned in connection with 
                        Madison
                     circuit. Hunter was then a very little preacher, but he was good
                    and zealous and useful in most parts of the circuit. This circuit then embraced 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Randolph
                     and perhaps a part of Henry counties. The north part of it was very
                    muddy, as I found in the spring when I went to Winchester to attend quarterly
                    meeting, which we held in a new courthouse. The year was a pleasant and
                    successful one, and the increase was one hundred and nine. We had a good camp
                    meeting at the time of the last quarterly meeting.
            Evans, the preacher on 
                        Connersville
                     circuit, was mentioned last year as one of the preachers on 
                        Wayne
                     circuit. Isaac N. Elsberry, who had formerly traveled two years in
                    tile 
                        Ohio
                     Conference, was at the 
                        Illinois
                     conference, and willing to travel, and the presiding elder sent him
                    on immediately to travel with Evans. These brethren were steady to their
                    purpose, and industrious, and they had a good work on the circuit. Our society
                    in the town of 
                        Connersville
                     was feeble, and had only three male members in it, who were Isaac
                    Wood, a local preacher, since dead. He was uncle to Aaron, Enoch G., and Wesley
                    Wood. Another was — Rutter, who has since moved west near 
                        Indianapolis
                    . His house was the principal stopping place for the preachers. The
                    third was Joshua M'Intosh, who had borne the heat and burden of the
                    reproach of Methodism for years. He still lives there, and is now a local
                    preacher, and no person attempts to mob him as it was once attempted when James
                    Havens was at his house. This year there was a looking up in the town, and  the society grew some; and we have
                    continued to look, up and we have become so strong that the next Indiana
                    conference is to meet there. If our church debt were paid, we would look higher
                    up still; but, ah, there is an incubus! The Minutes report
                    eighty-eight of an increase on the circuit, but there was more of an increase
                    than that reported in the Minutes; for after the numbers were
                    taken the preceding year, the appointments in 
                        Henry county
                    , which were in Rush-ville circuit, were attached to 
                        Connersville
                    , and several appointments which were in 
                        Rush
                     and 
                        Decatur counties
                    , and belonged to 
                        Connersville
                    , were attached to Rushville circuit, by which means it gained and
                    the other lost. Had it not been that Rushville was such a man-killing circuit,
                    even after these changes, I should have vetoed the changes; for they were made
                    after conference by those who had no authority to do so.
            The last quarterly meeting was a camp meeting, which was rendered unfruitful by
                    some unpleasant Church difficulties which were brought before the quarterly
                    conference. It was strongly argued by strong men that a local preacher, who had
                    been brought before a committee of local preachers, and acquitted, could be
                    brought before the quarterly conference and tried there; but the chair decided
                    that a man could not be twice put in jeopardy for the same offense. This
                    decision displeased some, but the matter ended there; and the chair is of the
                    same opinion still.
            James Havens, who was on the supernumerary list, was placed in charge of the
                    heavy Rushville circuit. He had for his helper a pleasant, good boy, who had
                    been one year in the work. That boy was John Kerns, the present presiding elder
                    on the 
                        Evansville
                     district. Never shall I forget the emphatic manner in which Bishop
                    Soule said, "Let no man despise thy youth," when he ordained
                    John with others on the camp ground near Edwardsville, Ill., in the fall of
                    1829. Havens and Kerns were as loving as father and son, and they had good
                    success in everything except getting money. I think Havens, with his heavy
                    family of thirteen or fourteen children, received between seventy and eighty
                    dollars, and  Kerns half that sum, and Wiley
                    seven dollars and seventy-two cents as his share on the circuit. O, ye who are
                    afraid your preachers will become rich and proud, look at these sums. Well,
                    preachers and people ought to be thankful that times have improved some in money
                    matters. These receipts were only a little more than thirty cents on the dollar
                    for quarterage claims, without anything for house rent or table expenses. With
                    all this pecuniary pressure and the bad health of Havens, we had glorious times,
                    and the Minutes report an increase of two hundred and
                    seventy-five. For reasons mentioned in connection with 
                        Connersville
                     circuit, the real increase on the circuit was not so large as the
                        Minutes report; but all that Rushville should be
                    diminished, 
                        Connersville
                     would gain, so that the two circuits increased three hundred and
                    sixty-three.
            
               
                        Fall Creek
                     circuit, named after 
                        Fall Creek
                    , (so called from a considerable fall in the water course near
                    Pendleton) to which Charles Bonner was sent, had been in connection with 
                        Indianapolis
                     circuit, and was properly the northeastern part of that circuit. It
                    extended to Buck Creek on the 
                        Michigan
                     road on the east, and to Andersontown, the county town of 
                        Madison county
                    , on the north, and to 
                        Noblesville
                     on the west, and perhaps a few appointments on the west of
                        White River. Bonner was on his first year in the
                    conference, having traveled most of the preceding year under the direction of
                    the excellent Charles Holliday, the presiding elder on the 
                        Wabash
                     district. Bonner was a young, inexperienced, awkward, but most
                    amiable and industrious man. He was popular with his people, for they loved him
                    much, and he was useful, and made rapid improvement. One of the best camp
                    meetings which I ever saw, to the number of people, was on this circuit near
                    Pendleton. I suppose at no time were there more than one thousand people on the
                    ground, and there were some fifty or more conversions, and about the same number
                    of additions to the Church, which was about one-twentieth part of the whole
                    congregation.
            A part of the sermon at the middle of the day on Sabbath was devoted to the
                    subject of baptism, and at the close of the 
                    service some forty or fifty adults and infants were solemnly baptized. After the
                    public baptism was over, the elder was informed that there was a poor afflicted
                    man in a wagon, whose body was to considerable extent decayed by some kind of
                    abscess or ulceration; but there was yet body enough to hold the soul, which
                    could not stay much longer on earth, as disease was rapidly encroaching on the
                    vital parts of the system. This poor Lazarus, with all his stench of disease,
                    heard the sermon, and felt its force, and was desirous to be baptized before he
                    died; and his wish was met in the wagon. His meek, penitent, weeping countenance
                    is still fresh in my recollection.
            If baptism were confined to immersion alone, this poor nian must have died
                    unbaptized; for I suppose the most zealous immersionist in the world would not
                    have attempted to put the fragments of his decaying body under the water. To my
                    mind, this fact is a powerful argument against the absolute necessity of
                    immesion to constitute valid baptism; for if that be the case, this penitent
                    believer must have died unsealed with God's sign of the Christian
                    covenant; but if pouring or sprinkling be valid baptism, while the head and
                    heart are alive, and reason and feeling continue, the penitent may be baptized.
                    This poor man felt that it was valid; and in a few days left the remains of his
                    loathsome carcass and went to rest. We do not know whether there was an increase
                    or a decrease, as we do not know how many of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     circuit members fell to 
                        Fall Creek
                    . The report at the end of the year was four hundred and fifteen.
            This year 
                        Indianapolis
                     was called a station, but it had several appointments in the
                    country, south of the town, connected with it. Some of these appointments were
                    as much as ten miles distant. Armstrong was, if possible, more zealous and
                    industrious than he had ever been; and it was a glorious years for 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Several of the present prominent members joined that year; among
                    whom I may name John Wilkins, Alfred Harrison and wife, Calvin Fletcher, and one
                    of great worth and benevolence, whose stay with us was but a few months till he
                    was removed by death: I mean James Paxton.
            
            Five hundred dollars of the funds of the Preachers' Aid Society were
                    given by him in his last will, and also a valuable addition to the church lot
                    for a site on which to build a parsonage. He also gave a hundred dollars to the
                    Methodist Bible Society, a branch of which was about to be formed at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            James Harrison, now of the 
                        Michigan
                     conference, also joined this year; but he was not converted until
                    the next year in the class-room. I have not time to name all on earth and in
                    heaven who joined that year. Among those who are at rest, I might name Henry
                    Porter, and others. Doubtless several members of the legislature were finally
                    converted to the Lord, in consequence of impressions made on their minds in the
                    winter of this year. How much increase or decrease there was in the whole of
                    this charge I cannot tell, for the same reason mentioned in reference to 
                        Fall Creek
                    . The return at the end of the year was three hundred and three, so
                    that 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Fail Creek together had a decrease of two members. I think it
                    probable that the country appointments fell off some; for Armstrong was so taken
                    up with the town work, and in getting the meeting-house finished, that the
                    country work was not so well attended to as was desirable; and the consequence
                    was, the people desired to be disconriected from the town the next year. In all
                    cases where the preachers spend a disproportionate part of their time and labors
                    in the towns, the country people become dissatisfied. I do not know how to
                    account for the decrease when we had such glorious times, unless some of the
                    appointments on the south part of the circuit, as it was the preceding year,
                    were attached to the 
                        Columbus
                     circuit, which, I think, was the fact. If this conjecture be true,
                    the decrease is accounted for.
            Asa Reek, the preacher in charge of 
                        Columbus
                     circuit, was received on trial this year, and had but little
                    experience in Church matters but he had zeal, and did the very best he knew how.
                    The presiding elder employed a brother Lewis Blankinship to travel with Beek.
                    Blankinship could not preach much, but he was a most ardent, affectionate man,
                    who could sing, and exhort, and do much good. Great was  the success in taking in members this year; for the
                        Minutes report an increase of two hundred and sixty-three.
                    I have before supposed a part of the former 
                        Indianapolis
                     circuit was attached to this. The last quarterly meeting was a
                    middling good camp meeting, held in the bottom of Blue
                    River, on the opposite side, and a little above Edinburg. With all
                    the success of this year, it was one of much affliction; for Elankin-ship and
                    Beek's wives both died near the close of the year. Had I been called on
                    to preach Blankinship's funeral sermon, (as I should have been, if his
                    family could have been at the camp meeting) I intended to take for my text,
                    "He was a good man, and full of the Holy Ghost, and of faith; and much
                    people was added to the Lord." From this text, the reader may form an
                    estimate of the man. Beek's wife was a good little woman, by whose
                    death he was left desolate with three little children.
            This district had, at the beginning of the year, five thousand one hundred and
                    forty-eight members, and at the end of the year six thousand two hundred and
                    thirty-three, being an increase of eleven hundred and thirty-five; and all this
                    net increase, except the few who were in that part of 
                        Oxford
                     circuit which was in Indiana. I will be safe in saying, there was
                    more than a thousand of a net increase.
            I will take a little of the reader's time in describing the metes and
                    bounds of the 
                        Madison
                     district at this time. It began at 
                        Madison
                     on the Ohio River, and ran north to the
                        Mississineway River on the north of 
                        Randolph county
                    , and then went west to White River, and
                    followed it down by An-dersontown, 
                  Noblesville, Indianapolis
               , and Martinsville. It then went
                    southeast to the East Fork of White River, called
                    Driftwood, some distance below 
                        Columbus
                    , thence to 
                        Madison
                    , the place of beginning, embracing all the intermediate country,
                    except a narrow slip extending from 
                        Paris
                    , in 
                        Jefferson county
                    , to Versailles, in 
                        Ripley county
                    , called Vernon circuit. The next year Vernon was included in it,
                    and 
                        Columbus
                     left out. This year it had nineteen or twenty county towns, and the
                    nest year twenty or twenty-one. I say twenty  or twenty-one, for I do not know whether Muncy was then a county seat or not.
            There are now, most of 
                        Madison
                     district, all of 
                        Brookville
                     district, all of 
                        Indianapolis
                     district, in the Indiana conference, and the larger parts of the
                    Centreville and 
                        Indianapolis
                     districts in the North Indiana conference, made out of this one.
                    Where we then had ten charges, we now have about fifty, and where we then
                    employed some sixteen or eighteen men, we now employ about seventy or upwards. I
                    make these statements now, for I may not continue these annals later than the
                    fall of 1832, when the state of Indiana became a separate conference. Whether I
                    shall or shall not continue these accounts of the work will depend on several
                    contingencies. The work has increased on my hands far beyond my expectation when
                    I began it. I have no hope of continuing it down to the present time in less
                    than fifty or more numbers, and as each number costs me something near two days
                    to compose it, and then prepare it for the press, all must see that the work is
                    not light. If I lived near the printer, so that I could correct the proof, I
                    would be saved the drudgery of coyping for the press.
            The eloquent Strange, as Armstrongs' successor on the 
                        Charlestown
                     district, sustained himself well, considering his feeble health. He
                    remained on the district three years, when it extended some part of the time
                    from the Ohio River, from a little below 
                        Madison
                     down to the lower part of 
                        Harrison county
                    , out north to 
                        Logansport
                    , embracing all the country between the 
                        Madison
                     district and the 
                        Wabash
                     district, which was contiguous to the Wabash
                    River, and did not extend up the river much above 
                        Terre Haute
                    , on the east side. It affects my nerves while I write, to think of
                    a man as feeble as Strange and one who suffered as much as he did on horseback,
                    riding so many hundreds of miles in continued acute pain. No wonder he died in
                    the prime of life, for the mere traveling was enough to wear him or any other
                    man down who had a feeble constitution, but he loved such large fields of labor;
                    his brethren, however, should have seen that they were killing him,  and should hare curtailed them, and diminished his
                    toils, if that could have been done. They might have done the former, but the
                    latter is doubtful. He, however, lamented his excessive labors in his last days,
                    as most men have done who labor beyond their strength.
            John W. M'Reynolds and James Scott have both been noticed before. They
                    went on Chariestown circuit when it had rather passed its zenith of revival
                    influence, and the reaction so common had now begun to come on, and there was a
                    decrease of one hundred and ninety-six. I have said, if the circuit had been
                    divided, so that preachers might have been pastors as well as preachers, this
                    shrinkage would not have been realized; but this is a lesson which we were slow
                    to learn, and we are now slow to practice it. Some seem to think the traveling
                    preachers can never do their duty unless they are always on horseback, in the
                    pulpit, or the class-room. All these three places are very appropriate for them,
                    but they can never do half their work there in this day. When the country was
                    sparsely settled, and the rides long, the people did not expect more than
                    preaching and class meeting, but now they do expect more, and they will
                    backslide unless the preachers visit them; and if we may judge from the way some
                    of them talk, they backslide purposely because the preachers do not do their
                    duty as pastors. Brethren, you should do your duty, and ieave the people without
                    excuse.
            Davis and Otwell had some prosperity on Corydon circuit, for there was an
                    increase of eighty-nine. Thomas Davis was a man of some years in the traveling
                    connection. He commenced as early as 1815, and continued to travel, with the
                    exception of one year, when he was local, until 1832, when he was expelled by
                    the Indiana conference. I believe he joined the Protestant Methodist Church,
                    and, as is common in the parts where I am acquainted, I presume without any
                    confession of his fault. I have no quarrel with that Church; but the practice of
                    gathering up the offals of other churches will most assuredly ruin it. What has
                    become of Davis, I know not. Otwell was a most amiable young man of an excellent
                    mind; but he was not of a revival cast. He continued in the traveling connection
                    either effective or superannuated,  until
                    1843, when he died in great peace. There is an interesting account of him in the
                        Minutes for 1843, page 422.
            John Hogan, the preacher in charge of 
                        Salem
                     circuit, had been on it before as the colleague of William Shanks.
                    He now had for his helper Michael S. Taylor, who was transferred from the 
                        Kentucky
                     to the 
                        Illinois
                     conference. Taylor's name does not appear on the Minutes this year, as the transfer was made after the sitting
                    of the 
                        Illinois
                     conference, and the Minutes had been made up.
                    Michael was a good helper. This was a year of much prosperity to the circuit,
                    for I find the increase to be one hundred and thirty-four, so that 
                        Salem
                     was now becoming a heavy circuit, for it numbered seven hundred and
                    seventy-two.
            Daniel Anderson, the preacher on Paoli circuit, was a man of much moral worth,
                    who joined the traveling connection somewhat advanced in life, but was
                    acceptable and useful while he traveled, which he did ten years, and was then
                    superannuated one year, and then located. The last I knew anything of Brother
                    Anderson was in the fall of 1841. He then lived near the road from 
                        Bloomington
                     to 
                        Greencastle
                    , and was a respectable local preacher; and the Lord converted
                    several of his sons at a camp meeting in his vicinity, which the writer and
                    Samuel C. Cooper attended as visitors.
            There was a wonderful falling off from Paoli circuit this year, which I cannot
                    account for, unless a part of the circuit was attached to some other work. The
                    circuit decreased three hundred and twenty-four and it continued to decrease
                    several years.
            To equalize the districts, Vernon circuit was attached to the 
                        Charleston
                     district, and had for its preacher John T. Johnson, who had made
                    considerable improvement since his first beginning on White Water circuit. The
                    circuit decreased eleven.
            The five circuits which we have noticed in this district had not much prosperity
                    this year. Two of them increased two hundred and twenty-three, while three of
                    them decreased five hundred and thirty-one, so that the real decrease was three
                    hundred and eight, unless a part of Paoli was attached to some other circuit out
                    of the limits of my caption, which  confines
                    me to southeastern Indiana. Our whole summary this year is not so good as the
                    last. Out of fifteen charges, nine had an increase of fourteen hundred and six,
                    while six had a decrease of five hundred and forty-four, leaving a net increase
                    of eight hundred and sixty-two. These ebbings and flowings of our increase show
                    either the fidelity or unfaithfulness of the preachers, or the instability of
                    our people, or, God, to show that the work is his, does not give the race to the
                    swift, or the battle to the strong. If we always had prosperity, we might impute
                    too much to human agency.
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , July 3, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, Sept. 18, 1846.
         
         
         
            Civil War Diary of William C. Benson
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Camp 
                                        Knox
                                    , January 1, 1864.
                        WM. C. BENSON
                        
                        Friday, January 1, 1164. W. C. Benson enlisted in the 120th regt.
                                    Ind. Vols. November 24th, 1863. Enrolled by Capt. A. Knowles.
                                    Come into camp [
                              Knox,
                                            Vincennes
                           ] Dec. 8th, 1863, of which an
                                    account has been taken this first day of Jan., 18641
                        
                        Saturday, 2. New Year's day was exceedingly cold, with
                                    considerable snow which still continues.
                        Sunday, 3. Nothing of unfrequent occurrence has taken place
                                    today; more than the weather still ceases to moderate.
                        Monday, January 4, 1864. March to the battle field. The foe is
                                    now before us. Each heart is freedom's shield and
                                    freedom's flag is o'er us.
                        Wednesday, 6. A furlough of 5 days was granted to me the 2nd
                                    inst. to go home. I returned to camp today.
                        Thursday, 7. On the night of Jan. 7th, 1864, B. F. Johnson
                                    [Poseyville] and myself were detailed to act as nurse at the
                                    hospital. There being two of our Comp. to care for.
                        Friday, 8. Today Capt. [Albert] Knowle's Comp. [D] was
                                    sworn in to the service of the U. S. Also mustered into the
                                    service of the U. S.
                        Sunday, 10. The weather has continued to be very cold since Jan.
                                    1st, until today, when it is moderating with an unusual degree.
                        
                           
                              1 The following is from Terrell's Reports. The
                                        One-hundred-Twentieth was organized along with five other
                                        regiments to form the first brigade, first division of the
                                        Twenty-Third army corps under Gen. John M. Schofield General
                                        Sherman sent Gen. Alvin P. Hovey from 
                                            Chattanooga
                                         to organize it, bring it to the front and get
                                        it ready for the 
                                            Atlanta
                                         Campaign, The following entry applies to the
                                        author of the diary' "Benson, Wm. C.,
                                        Owensville, Mus. Jan. 8, 1864, Died of mounds rec'd
                                        at 
                                            Kingston
                                        , hi. C. Mar. 11, 1865."
                        
                        
                        Monday, 11. Today I was detailed to act as nurse at the hospital.
                                    Camp 
                                        Knox
                                    , Ind.
                        Tuesday, 12. Great anxiety prevails throughout the Comp. for the
                                    appearance of the paymaster.
                        Wednesday, 13.
                        The stars of morn on our banner borne, With the
                                    iris of heaven are blended, The hand of our sires first mingled
                                    those fires, And by us they shall be defended.
                        Friday, 15. No room for any more sick in the hospital. Health of
                                    the soldiers in Camp Knox very bad.
                        Saturday, 16. A pass granted to W. C. Benson and Thomas M. Crow
                                    [Dongola] to go into 
                                        Vincennes
                                     to take quite a no. of letters to the P. O.
                        Sunday, 17. We are warned of the arrival of the paymaster without
                                    fail on the following Monday. Great appearance of another snow.
                        Monday, 18. No paymaster arrived today. The depth of the snow
                                    this evening is estimated at twelve inches. Today the weather
                                    has been to unfavorable to drill.
                        Tuesday, 19. The weather moderates slowly. The paymaster arrives
                                    but promises no money to the camps mustered into the service;
                                    the former mustering officer not having signed the pay roll.
                        Wednesday, 20. We were paid off today ($60 only) by
                                    taking another oath of allegiance.
                        Thursday, 21. Today I was detailed as a supernumera guard. The
                                    most of Knowle's camp have leave of absence to go home
                                    until Feb. 2nd, 1864.
                        Friday, 22. Harrison Marcus [Poseyville] taken to the hospital,
                                    he being very sick with the measles. Two of Knowle's
                                    Camp are now in hospital including Lieut. [John] Stephenson
                                    [Folsomville].
                        Saturday, 23. Received a letter from home. Which brought the news
                                    that all was well also a letter from Sant-ford Howe of the 24th
                                    Ind. [Co. K] which is at 
                              Ibera, Louisiana
                           .
                        
                        Sunday, 24. A pass was granted us today to go to church in 
                                        Vincennes
                                    .
                        Monday, 25. Today I am detailed as a patrole guarde to stand at
                                    the Junction.
                        Tuesday, 26. The news comes that the 24th Ind. will be at the
                                    Junction at train time, of which is false.
                        Wednesday, 27. Two soldiers of Capt. [Henry] Gillam's
                                    Company [GI died this morning at the hospital. Camp Knox.
                        Thursday, 28. The 24th Ind. regt. [Hovey's] arrives at
                                    princeton. [On veteran furlough.] The wildest enthusiasm exists
                                    among the citizens. The veterans in fine spirits.
                        Friday, 29. Rumors are afloat that the rebels are fighting among
                                    themselves.
                        Saturday, 30. The 42nd Ind. arrives at the junction. [
                                        Vincennes
                                    .]
                        Sunday, 31. Rumors of the Smallpox in 
                                        Vincennes
                                    .
                        Monday, February 1. Cases of Small Pox confirmed. Great exertions
                                    are being made to prevent it getting into camp Knox.
                        Tuesday, 2. A great many furloughed soldiers return to Camp.
                        Wednesday, 3. To day I am granted a furlough to go home on
                                    recruiting service until the 15th inst.
                        Thursday, 4. A grand supper prepared in Owensville at the Odd
                                    Fellows hall for Veteran Soldiers who have returned home.
                        Friday, 5. Publick speaking appointed at Owensville by Col. Coons
                                    and Afajor Grown. But they failed to comply with the
                                    appointment.
                        Saturday, 6. Funeral of P. Williams of the 42nd regt. Ind. Vols.
                                    took placc at Owensville.
                        Sunday, 7. Went to Antioch to church. Santford Howe of the 24th
                                    regt. Pnd. Vols. returns to 
                                        Montgomery
                                     Township 
                                        Gibson county
                                     Ind.
                        Monday, 8. Great weather for making maple sugar.
                        Saturday, 13. Thompsons Gambrel shot by a soldier of the 24th
                                    Pnd., at 
                                        Princeton
                                    , Ind.
                        Sunday, 14. Gambrel reported killed. But is only wounded.
                        
                        Monday, 15. I return to camp Knox, Indiana, and find all the
                                    soldiers in fine spirits.
                        Tuesday, 16. Capt. Knowles returns to Camp Knox.
                        Wednesday, 17. Capt. Williamson's camp of cavalry Camp
                                    Knox Ind.
                        Monday, 22. Two men of Alexandre's Comp, and one of
                                    Capt. Fisher's comp shot by
                                    accident—cavalry.
                        Tuesday, 23. 
                                        Union
                                     convention at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     continues from the 22nd.
                        Wednesday, 24. A Soldier belonging to camp Knox severely beaten
                                    by a butternut in 
                                        Vincennes
                                    .
                        Tuesday, March 1. 
                              
                                            Vincennes
                                         Sun office torn up by the 24th Ind. Vols.
                                    They receive three cheers from the boys in Camp Mnox.
                        Wednesday, 2. Was on patrole guard in the City and met several
                                    interesting Ladies which were true blue union.
                        Thursday, 3. The Sun is shinging clear and bright this morning
                                    and all nature seems to rejoice in the prospect of nice weather.
                        Friday, 4. How changeable the weather is. Today the wind is
                                    blowing cold and bleak as December.
                        Saturday, 5. The wind continues to blow as cold as ever and the
                                    snow is falling quite rapidly.
                        Sunday, 6. Several of our boys went to Church in the City today.
                        Thursday, 10. Cavalry under marching orders.
                        Friday, 11. Camp Knox. Three Comps. of Cavalry leave for 
                                        Columbus
                                    , Ind.
                        Saturday, 12. Comp D under marching orders. Also three other
                                    companies which was organized at Camp Knox, Ind.
                        Sunday, 13. Comp D. ordered to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     tomorrow.
                        Monday, 14. We leave Camp Mnox for Camp Carrington, Ind. [
                                        Indianapolis
                                    ].
                        Tuesday, 15. The 31st Ind. leave Camp Carrington for Dixie. [
                                        Louisville
                                    .]
                        Wednesday, 16. The 120th draw their nap sacks and other articles
                                    necessary for a soldier.
                        Thursday, 17. The weather very cold.
                        
                        Friday, 18. The 120th receive marching orders.
                        Saturday, 19. The 120th Ind. paid one month's wages and
                                    are to leave to morrow at 7 oclock for dixie.
                        Sunday, 20. The 120th leaves Camp Carrington for 
                                        Louisville
                                    , Ky. Arrives at 11 oclock A. M. and is quartered at
                                    the General Barracks.
                        Monday, 21. The 47th 
                                        Ohio
                                     arrives at 
                                        Louisville
                                     on their way home. They, having reenlisted.
                        Tuesday, 22. We leave the General Barracks and go Southward one
                                    mile and a half to Camp 
                                        Parke
                                    .
                        Wednesday, 23. Company D draw their tents. Expectations of a
                                    movement southward.
                        Thursday, 24. General [Alvin P.] Hovey makes his appearance on
                                    the drill ground, while the troops are drilling.
                        Friday, 25. The weather rainy and cold.
                        Saturday, 26. The 33rd leave Camp Anderson for their respective
                                    homes on 30 days furlough.
                        Sunday, 27. The 120th Ind. leaves 
                                        Louisville
                                        Ky
                                     for 
                                        Nashville
                                        Tenn.
                                     at about 6 oclock P. M.
                        Monday, 28. After traveling without intermission we arrive at 
                                        Nashville
                                        Tenn.
                                     at 4 oclock P. M. We pitch our tents near forte
                                    Neigly. [Negley.] Having no tent sticks we experience an unhappy
                                    night.
                        Tuesday, 29. Made a visit to Fort Neigly today, which was quite
                                    interesting haveing thoroughly inspected the plan of the Foyt
                                    which is built in the form of a Star.
                        Wednesday, 30. While the men were all busy arrangeing their tents
                                    this morning Gen. Hovey made his appearance in Camp, which put a
                                    stop to the work for a while.
                        Thursday, 31. A Man shot by a picket guarde. The weather clear
                                    and pleasant.
                        Friday, April 1. As this is considered all fools day the boys are
                                    having a great deal of sport.
                        Saturday, 2. We receive orders to be in readiness to march
                                    against 9 oclock tomorrow.
                        Sunday, 3. We are to leave tomorrow instead of today. Probably
                                    our whole division. [First of 23rd Corps.]
                        Monday, 4. The march still delaied on account of the  weather. A great many soldiers are
                                    passing to & from the direction of Chatanooga.
                        Tuesday, 5. We leave 
                                        Nashville
                                     for Murfreesborough, and march 10 miles in that
                                    direction when we pitch our tents in an open field and prepare
                                    for a good night's sleep.
                        Wednesday, 6. We resume our journey and march within 12 miles of
                                    Murfreesborough, pitch our tents and go on bat-tallion drill in
                                    the evening.
                        Thursday, 7. Our division commanded by Col. [Richard F.] Barter
                                        [Mt. Vernon] arrives at Murfreesborough
                                    and at night camp on the Stone river
                                    battleground.
                        Friday, 8. Our division leaves Murfreesborough with five days
                                    rations in havre sacks, at night pitch tents after a march of 10
                                    miles.
                        Saturday, 9. We march within 3 miles of Shelbyville the place so
                                    much noted for its patriotic people.
                        Sunday, 10. We proceed to march and rest two hours in
                                    Shelbyville. In passing through' the 120th gives three
                                    loud cheers for the place after our days march we find ourselves
                                    within 8½ miles of Tullyhoma.
                        Monday, 11. At twelve oclock asrived at Tullyhoma. A dismal
                                    looking place it is, the greatest object being the old
                                    fortification showing the intentions of a little at some past
                                    time.
                        Tuesday, 12. The division, Hovey's, leaves Tullyhoma and
                                    march to Decker Station, distant fourteen miles and a very rough
                                    road.
                        Wednesday, 13. The division leaves Decker station and march to
                                    the foot of the Cumberlain Md. there draw four days rations.
                        Thursday, 14. We cross the Mts. and camp in the plains.
                        Friday, 15. We proceed to march. At night camp in 
                                        Ala
                                    , 4 miles from Stephenson. At this camp a soldier in
                                    comp E 120th Ind. was accidentally shot. [John St. Clair,
                                    Folsomville.]
                        Saturday, 16. Today we march through Stephenson, and beyond the
                                    place 4 miles, our direction now being towards Chatanooga.
                        
                        Sunday, 17. Our march is continued to Bridgeport where we draw
                                    four day's rations to last till we get to Chatanooga.
                                    We camp on an Island in the Tennessee
                                    river.
                        Monday, 18. We march within 14 miles of Chatanooga Camp at the
                                    sumit of very high Mts. of the Cumberlain range.
                        Tuesday, 19. We take up our line of March and at night find
                                    ourselves encamped at the foot of lookout Mountain
                                        Tenn. We have now been marching fifteen days.
                        Wednesday, 20. The Division goes to Chatanooga. During our short
                                    stay at this place we are visited by many friends in the 42nd
                                    Ind.
                        Thursday, 21. The Division leaves Chatanooga for 
                                        Cleveland
                                        Tenn.
                                     Cross Missionary ridge which though rugged is
                                    interesting as it is where so complete a union victory was won.
                        Friday, 22. We are yet on our march to 
                                        Cleveland
                                    . Roads are good. Weather clear and pleasant.
                        Saturday, 23. We go to 
                                        Cleveland
                                    , halting only long enough to draw two
                                    day's rations.
                        Sunday, 24. Arrive at 
                                        Charleston
                                        Tenn.
                                     at 10 oclock A. M. Pitch tents on a Mt. near
                                    Hiwasee.
                        Monday, 25. All quiet in camp. Soldiers resting at ease, after 20
                                    day's march. General Hovey gives great praise for our
                                    good conduct during the march.
                        Tuesday, 26. Ordered to move tents a short distance further up
                                    the Mt.
                        Wednesday, 27. Soldier's busily engaged in arranging
                                    their tents so as to be more comfortable than usual. Also
                                    setting out cedar bushes before their tents so as to add new
                                    beauty to the camping grounds.
                        Thursday, 28. A rebel Lieut. gives himself up to the union
                                    authorities comes into 
                                        Charleston Tenn
                                    . and takes the oath of allegiance to the federal
                                    Government.
                        Friday, 29. I help to unload three car loads of cartrages in the
                                    morning, for which reason I am excused from bat-tallion drill in
                                    the evening. W. C. B.
                        Saturday, 30. 120th Ind. mustered for pay. Great numbers of
                                    cavalry are passing through 
                                        Charleston
                                     in the direction of 
                                        Georgia
                                    .
                        
                        Sunday, May 1. The 80th, 63rd, and 65th Ind. regiments arrive at 
                                        Charleston Tenn.
                                     The greater portion of the 23rd army corps are now
                                    concentrated at 
                                        Charleston Tenn.
                                     John M. Schoffieds corps.
                        Monday, 2. The 23rd army corps receive marching orders at 5
                                    oclock tomorrow. 120th Ind. visited by many friends in the 80th
                                    Ind. regt.
                        Tuesday, 3. General J. Schoffield's Corps leaves 
                                        Charleston Tenn
                                     and go to 
                                        Cleveland
                                    , distance 12 miles.
                        Wednesday, 4. The corps leaves 
                                        Cleveland
                                     at an early hour this morn and march a short
                                    distance in the direction of 
                                        Dalton Georgia
                                     where the rebels are said to be stationed.
                        Thursday, 5. At noon we receive marching orders. Hovey's
                                    division go to sand Hill Geo.
                        Friday, 6. All day, we remain in readiness to march but receive
                                    no such orders. Ordered to be in readiness to march at day light
                                    the following morning.
                        Saturday, 7. Hovey's division leave sand hill; at night
                                    camp on the ground held by the rebels in the morning. Late in
                                    the evening the union cavalry routes a small body of rebels near
                                    our camp.
                        Sunday, 8. We moove a short distance towards 
                                        Dalton Geo
                                    , and hear some fighting going on.
                        Monday, 9. Ordered to move on the enemy. 2nd Brigade capturing a
                                    rebel batery. Heavy firing is heard all day in the direction of 
                                        Dalton
                                    . A general engagement soon expected.
                        Tuesday, 10. Rebels attempt to shell our division but meet with
                                    little success. (Glorious news from Gen. Grant's army
                                    in 
                                        Virginia
                                    ) Hooker's Corps which is in rear of 
                                        Dalton
                                     meets with heavy loss.
                        Wednesday, 11. Rebels fire on our pickets. We are formed in line
                                    of battle, but meet with no attack from the enemy.
                        Thursday, 12. The 23rd Corps is ordered to the rear of 
                                        Dalton
                                     to keep in possession the railroad leading to 
                                        Atlanta
                                     Geo by which means the rebels might escape.
                        Friday, 13. The 23rd corps is in rear of 
                                        Dalton
                                     according to the request of our Commander in chief.
                                    Considerable cannonading still going on near the
                                    enemy's works.
                        
                        Saturday, 14. Hard fighting all day. Hovey's division
                                    not engaged but is held in readiness. The rebels are driven
                                    back.
                        Sunday, 15. Hard fighting still going on. The enemy are repulsed
                                    with considerable loss on both sides. Hovey's division
                                    engaged.
                        Monday, 16. 
                                        Union
                                     men burying their dead. Dead rebels still remain on
                                    the field. Our forces pursue the fleeing enemy.
                        Tuesday, 17. Our forces still advancing southward. Rations are
                                    scarce and details are made to forage for the subsistence of the
                                    army.
                        Wednesday, 18. Still we march towards 
                                        Atlanta
                                    . Weather warm with some rain.
                        Thursday, 19. Same old command; forward, March! yet we know not
                                    where we are going.
                        Friday, 20. March through 
                                        Kingston
                                    , Ga., a beautiful place a few days ago, but is now
                                    a lonesome spot such is the fruits of rebellion against a good
                                    Government.
                        Saturday, 21. 23rd corps remain at rest for the first time since
                                    leaving 
                                        Charleston Tenn
                                    . Now about 4 miles North of Altoona Ga where the
                                    rebs are said to be making a stand.
                        Sunday, 22. Army still remains silent. Boys busily engaged in
                                    writing home to their friends and relatives. 58th Ind at
                                    Cassville Ga.
                        Monday, 23. The army makes another moove toward the rebel nest.
                                    Roads are exceedingly dusty which renders it very disagreeable
                                    marching.
                        Tuesday, 24. We cross High Tower river on
                                    the pontoon bridge constructed by the 58th Ind. V. V. regt. At
                                    dark we have to counter-march while a thunderstorm is raging
                                    with great fury.
                        Wednesday, 25. At 10 oclock we proceed to march. The object, as I
                                    suppose is to surround the enemy. Heavy cannonading is heard
                                    late in the evening, in the direction of the rebels.
                        Thursday, 26. All day we remain at rest waiting for orders to
                                    march. Rebels are constantly giving themselves up to the 
                                        Union
                                     army.
                        
                        Friday, 27. Heavy cannonading kept up all day. Last night comps.
                                    A. F & D of the 120th are detached to guarde the train,
                                    also to assist in getting the wagons over the rough roads.
                        Saturday, 28. Countermarch to where we were three days ago. The
                                    sick are sent to the rear. Yesterday evening the rebels shelled
                                    us out of our camp.
                        Sunday, 29. Hovey's division is mooved forward near the
                                    enemy. Skirmishing all night. At times heavy firing 120th takes
                                    its position behind breast works.
                        Monday, 30. The 120th Ind. strengthen their breast works.
                                    Fighting all day.
                        Tuesday, 31. Heavy skirmishing all day cannonading at intervals.
                                    Balls flying thick and fast over our breast works.
                        Wednesday, June 1. The 120th again strengthen their works. At
                                    night are ordered north of the enemy's fortifications.
                        Thursday, 2. 120th skirmish with the enemy. Heavy thunder storm
                                    as well as thundering from the cannon is in progress. Rations
                                    scarce.
                        Friday, 3. The 120th Ind changes its position and build a new
                                    line of breast works. The sharp shooters do great execution.
                        Saturday, 4. Again the 120th moved and they build another line of
                                    works. Co A skirmish with the rebels.
                        Sunday, 5. 120th rest behind their breast works during the day.
                                    Rebels said to be leaving their fortifications and going towards 
                                        Atlanta
                                    . 
                                        Richmond
                                     reported taken.
                        Monday, 6. Still we rest. No expectations of a fight north of the
                                        Chattahoochee river. Rations very
                                    scarce.
                        Tuesday, 7. We moove about 3 miles from our works and construct a
                                    new line. Co D is placed on picket with loaded guns but empty
                                    stomaches. Richmond said to be besieged by 
                                        Grant
                                    .
                        Wednesday, 8. Co D ordered from picket. 120th draw 1/4 rations
                                    after doing without two days. Informed that the supply train
                                    will be here to-morrow. Hopes of better times.
                        Thursday, 9. Informed that Gen. Hovey has resigned. He receives
                                    great praise from regimental and comp officers  for the manner in which he has
                                    conducted himself while in command.
                        Friday, 10. Again we moove from our present position, distant
                                    about 4 miles. Take a new stand at the sumit of a very high hill
                                    opposite the enemy, who make a few attempts to shell us out.
                                    Skirmishing still prevails.
                        Saturday, 11. On this hill we still remain with a few works,
                                    (thrown up hastily) in front of us. Heavy cannonading at times.
                                    It is yet raining which has hardly ceased during the present
                                    month.
                        Sunday, 12. Cos. A F D and C support the skirmish line. Rain
                                    still falling. Soldiers wet and hungry, for rations are as
                                    scarce as the weather is foul.
                        Monday, 13. Co K put on picket while the other cos. are inooved
                                    about 1 mile nearer the enemy and again fortify. Still raining.
                                    Five of co D are sent to hospital there now being 30 fit for
                                    duty out of 92.
                        Tuesday, 14. Co D placed on picket. The rebel picket and that of
                                    the federals talk to each other. Heavy cannonading on our left.
                                    Rebels fortify all night.
                        Wednesday, 15. Schoffield's corps engaged with the
                                    rebels west of their fortification. The fight so far has been
                                    successful to the federals. The 120th have now been without
                                    rations for three days.
                        Thursday, 16. We draw rations at twelve oclock which strengthens
                                    us considerably. Armies still fighting. 120th moove on the enemy
                                    at night and are considerably exposed to their shells.
                                        Rebels fall back before day light.
                        Friday, 17. Armies still fighting. One of our best Gunners killed
                                    of the 23rd corps. Heavy firing on our left.
                        Saturday, 18. Co D again placed on picket in mud and rain.
                                        Rebels fall back again in the night.
                        Sunday, 19. Still raining. Federals still pursue the fleeing
                                    enemy. Schoffield takes his position on the right of the rebels.
                        Monday, 20. Heavy firing towards the Chatahoochee
                                    river. Received a letter from the 24th Ind. V. V.
                                    regiment. Rebs supposed to be crossing the Chatahoocha
                                        river.
                        Tuesday, 21. Rumored that the 23rd corps have orders to  go back to Knoxville Tenn.
                                    Still raining. A great many soldiers sick.
                        Wednesday, 22, 23rd corps move up. Rebels attempt to cut their
                                    way through Hookers. We are sent double quick to support him.
                                    Work all night fortifying.
                        Thursday, 23. We strengthen our works as the rebels are thought
                                    to be massing their forces to cut their way out at this point.
                                    (west,)
                        Friday, 24. 120th lay behind their first line of breast works.
                                    Capt. Knowles sent out on the skirmish line as picket officer.
                                    Expectations of an attack on our left.
                        Saturday 25. Rebel skirmishers driven in expectations of an
                                    attack from the rebs. We strengthen our works.
                        Sunday, 26, co D again placed on picked. I am taken sick and sent
                                    from the skirmish line back to the regt.
                        Monday, 27. Sent to the field hospital are sent to hospital.
                        Tuesday, 28. The sick in the field hospital are sent to alatoona.
                        Wednesday, 29. Arrive at Alatoona. I am assigned to Ward B. five
                                    of co D are here in hospital.
                        Thursday, 30. Hospital is situated in a beautiful place. But they
                                    being tents and a part of the soldiers having to lay on ground a
                                    great many are dying.
                        Friday, July 1. The chief diseases which prevail in this hospital
                                    are Diarrhea and Typhoid fever.
                        Monday, 18. The hospital at Alatoona ordered to be moved to
                                    Marietta ga at which place we arrive at 9 oclock in the night.
                        Tuesday, 19. Doctors, Wards masters, nurses, and fatigue men
                                    busily engaged in making the hospital as comfortable as
                                    possible.
                        Wednesday, 20. Some appearance of rain the dampness of the
                                    weather causing the sick to not feel so well as usual.
                        Thursday, 21. 3 years since the first battle of bull run. A great
                                    many soldiers sent from hospital to convalescent camp.
                        Friday, 22. Gen. Mcpherson's body said to be lying in
                                    Marietta he having been killed near Atlanta ga.
                        
                        Saturday, 23. 250 sick and wounded sent from the front to the
                                    hospital at Marrietta.
                        Sunday, 24. Soldiers who have served their time out are returning
                                    to their homes. A great many sick and wounded here are dying.
                        Monday, 25. But little cannonading heard in front. 1100 rebel
                                    prisoners in Marrietta will be sent north tomorrow.
                        Tuesday, 26. Trains loaded with prisoners start northward. Heavy
                                    cannonading in front.
                        Wednesday, 27. To day there seems to be but little fighting in
                                    front. A very heavy rain falls.
                        Thursday, 28. Gov. Morton said to be in 
                                        Marietta
                                    , and will visit us tomorrow.
                        Friday, 29. Gen. Hooker leaves 
                                        Marietta
                                     either for home or to take a command at or near 
                                        Richmond
                                        Va.
                                     100 sick from the 2nd Division 23rd corps are
                                    brought to the hospital.
                        Saturday, 30. New tables constructed to eat from. A much better
                                    arrangement for Convalescents than heretofore.
                        Sunday, 31. Raining all day. Day of rest, but an uncommon thing
                                    in the army. Wagon train from 
                                        Ky
                                     going front.
                        Monday, August 1. More sick brought to the corps Hospital from
                                    the front.
                        Tuesday, 2. Sick brought in to hospital in large numbers. Three
                                    from company D 120th Ind arrive.
                        Wednesday, 3. Nurses busy dressing wounds of men brought in
                                    yesterday.
                        Thursday, 4. A great deal of chat prevails thruout the hospital
                                    concerning the fall elections. Soldiers taunted by cop heads in
                                    the north Stoneman said to be captured.
                        Friday, 5. Gen Grant said to be playing smash at 
                                        Richmond
                                    .
                        Saturday, 6. 300 sent from the hospital at 
                                        Marietta
                                     Ga to 
                                        Knoxville
                                        Tenn.
                                    
                        
                        Sunday, 7. A great many soldiers going to the front. Sick and
                                    wounded going to the rear.
                        Monday, 8. Wards first and 2nd draw clothing. The evening is very
                                    rainy.
                        Tuesday, 9. Heavy cannonading still going on in front.
                        
                        Wednesday, 10. More sick and wounded are sent to Knox-ville Tenn.
                        Thursday, 11. 500 sick and wounded are brought to the hospital at 
                                        Marietta
                                    .
                        Friday, 12. Ordered to 
                                        Knoxville
                                        Tenn.
                                     on the day following.
                        Saturday, 13. Start for 
                                        Knoxville
                                     at dark. nebs tare up the track between Bigshanty
                                    and Alatoona. We are detained the remlzinder of the night.
                        Sunday, 14. The train, after running back to big Shanty till all
                                    could be regulated starts about 4 oclock for 
                                        Knoxville
                                    .
                        Monday, 15. This morning we eat the best breakfast we have had
                                    since we have been in Ga at 
                                        Dalton
                                    . Arrive at 
                                        Chatanooga
                                        Tenn.
                                    
                        
                        Tuesday, 16. Arrive at 
                                        Knoxville
                                     about 2 oclock A 31. Taken to the Asylum hospital.
                        Wednesday, 17. Considerable talk about Morgan and Wheeler making
                                    a raid into 
                                        Knoxville
                                    .
                        Sunday, 21. These comps from different regts in 23rd corps are
                                    organized for the defense of 
                                        Knoxville
                                    .
                        Monday, 22. We throw up breast works fearing an attack from 
                                        Morgan
                                     and Wheeler the former said to be near Londen.
                        Tuesday, 23. We are called up at 3 oclock A. M. in order to be
                                    ready for an attack should any be made.
                        Wednesday, 24. We are still held in readiness for the Guerily
                                    Band but they are not yet in view.
                        Thursday, 25. But little news stiring the rebels having torn up
                                    the track near 
                                        London
                                    .
                        Friday, 26. Details are made to work on fortifications for the
                                    defense of 
                                        Knoxville
                                    . Brownlow gets a despatch from 
                                        Richmond
                                    . Cheering news.
                        Saturday, 27. Fifteen rebels taken by our scouts and brought to 
                                        Knoxville
                                    .
                        Sunday, 28. Inspection day. A great deal of style put on for the
                                    satisfaction of citizen Drs.
                        Monday, 29. A large detail made to work on breast works as usual.
                                    Wheeler reported cut to pieces by the union forces.
                        
                        Tuesday, 30. Reported that Grant has taken 10,000 prisners
                                    recently.
                        Wednesday, 31. Muster for pay at the Asylum hospital (
                                        Knoxville
                                    ).
                        Thursday, September 1. A despatch received at 
                                        Knoxville
                                     that Mclelan is the nominee of the Democratic
                                    party.
                        Friday, 2. The mail comes through from Chatanooga to 
                                        Knoxville
                                     partly by water.
                        Saturday, 3. Atlanta said to be taken with 15,000 prisners.
                        Sunday, 4. News confirmed that Atlanta is taken.
                        Monday, 5. A brisk fight takes place in E. T. with John Morgan.
                                    Morgan said to be killed.
                        Tuesday, 6. News still favorable to the union cause.
                        Wednesday, 7. Furloughs, descriptive rolls, paymaster, &
                                    peace are the subjects of discussion among the soldiers at the
                                    present time.
                        Thursday, 8. Furloughs are granted to the sickest men in the
                                    Asylums hospital for 30 days.
                        Friday, 9. Sherman said to have fallen back on 
                                        Atlanta
                                     but is not generally believed.
                        Saturday, 10. Work half the day on breast works. A 24 hrs. pass
                                    promised us.
                        Sunday, 11. Get a 12 hrs. pass and visit the holston hospital.
                                    Also pass the pickets and get some splendid apples.
                        Monday, 12. Another fatiege squad raised. The present one
                                    relieved for three days.
                        Tuesday, 13. Nights cool and days warm.
                        Wednesday, 14. Hospital supplied with more bed clothing.
                        Thursday, 15. Wheeler comitting depredations in 
                                        East Tennessee
                                    . Convalescents ordered to be in readiness should an
                                    attack be made on 
                                        Knoxville
                                    .
                        Friday, 16. Negro troops sent after Wheeler.
                        Saturday, 17. Soldiers in the Asylum Hospital sign the pay roll.
                        Sunday, 18. Soidiers eager for the appearance of the Pay Master.
                                    Grand inspection day.
                        Monday, 19. An examination in the Asylum Hospital for the front.
                        
                        Tuesday, 20. A great many soldiers start home on furlough. The
                                    day clear and pleasant.
                        Wednesday, 21. Receive 4 letters from home which have been
                                    —.
                        Thursday, 22. Sheridan said to have gained a complete victory
                                    over the rebs in 
                                        Virginia
                                    .
                        Friday, 23. Weather rainey and windy. I go to 
                                        Knoxville
                                     on a pass of 12 hrs.
                        Saturday, 24. Paaymaster expected soon. Great joy over
                                    Sheridan's victory in 
                                        Va.
                                    .
                        Sunday, 25. Another grand inspection day. Ward 4 of the Asylum
                                    Hospital takes the premium the 2nd time. Also ward 4 of the
                                    Holston Hospital.
                        Monday, 26. Rumored that Ind soldiers will be aloud to start home
                                    in a few days to vote at the coming elections.
                        Tuesday, 27. Confirmed that Ind soldiers will start on the day
                                    following to their respective homes.
                        Thursday, November 10. Start for 
                                        Knoxville
                                     Ten get to 
                                        Louisvill
                                        Ky
                                     two oclock next morning when we go to foundry
                                    hospital and remain there till day light on the 11th.
                        Friday, 11. Leave 
                                        Louisville
                                        Ky
                                     at 11 oclock A. M. arrived at 
                                        Nashville
                                        Tenn.
                                     at 2 oclock next morning.
                        Saturday, 12. Leave 
                                        Nashville
                                     at 3 oclock P. M. after runing all night are
                                    detained at shell mound from some cause or other.
                        Sunday, 13. Arrived at 
                                        Chattanooga
                                        Tenn.
                                     at 3 oclock P. M. stay at soldiers home during the
                                    night.
                        Monday, 14. Leave 
                                        Chattanooga
                                        Tenn.
                                     for 
                                        Knoxville
                                        Tenn.
                                     at 7:30 A. M. Arrive at 
                                        Knoxville
                                     at 7 P. M.
                        Tuesday, 15. Aply for a discharge from the hospital to go to my
                                    regt. but is not granted me.
                        Wednesday, 16. Apply for our commutation money but cant get it
                                    for three days. Rations rather short.
                        Thursday, 17. Two train loads of soldiers come up to 
                                        Knoxville
                                     from 
                                        Chattanooga
                                     on their way to strawberry plains.
                        Friday, 18. Warm and rainy Companys organized from different Regt
                                    for the defence of 
                                        Knoxville
                                    .
                        Saturday, 19. Boys who are well anxious to go to their Regts. but
                                    cannot get permission for a few days to come.
                        
                        Sunday, 20. Weather still rainy and chilly another inspection day
                                    but the inspecting officers have not appeared.
                        Monday, 21. Turning very cold and disagreeable. 
                                        East Tenn
                                     rather deceiving to most northern boys.
                        Tuesday, 22. Day cold and cloudy poor chance for fire boys
                                    trembling cold.
                        Wednesday, 23. Clear and moderating to some extent a few in
                                    hospital receive their commutation money.
                        Thursday, 24. Weather clear and tolerably pleasant 60 of us go to
                                    hospital to remove tents.
                        Friday, 25. Discharged from Asylum Hospital. Receive
                                    $11 commutation money.
                        Saturday, 26. Leave 
                                        Knoxville
                                        Tenn.
                                     for Chatanooga. Arrive 7 oclock P. M. stay at this
                                    place during the night.
                        Sunday, 27. Leave Chatanooga Tenn at three o'clock P. M.
                                    Arrive at 
                                        Nashville
                                     at day light the 28th.
                        Monday, 28. Leave 
                                        Nashville
                                     for 
                                        Columbus
                                        Tenn.
                                     where 120th Ind are said to be stationed. Get to my
                                    Regt. at dark.
                        Tuesday, 29. 120th ordered to march at 4 oclock. To guard the
                                    train to Spring Hill. Brisk fighting at
                                        Spring Hill.
                        Wednesday, 30. Thomas' Army falls back to 
                                        Franklin
                                     120th guards the train to 
                                        Franklin
                                    . Hard fighting at 
                                        Franklin
                                    .
                        Thursday, Dee. 1. [Gen. Geo. H.] Thomas falls back to 
                                        Nashville
                                        Tenn.
                                     3rd brigade 3rd divisions camped near ft. Neglge.
                                    [Negley.]
                        Friday, 2. Thomas army awaiting the approach of Hood. Federals
                                    throw up a few breast works.
                        Saturday, 3. Cloudy and disagreeable. The enemy said to have
                                    their lines extended from a point on the Cumberlain above. 
                                        Nashville
                                     to a point below.
                        Sunday, 4. Third division still resting near fort Negley
                                    skirmishing still prevails.
                        Monday, 5. Ordered to get ready to moove. Orders countermanded.
                        Tuesday, 6. Again ordered to moove and again countermanded.
                        Thursday, 8. Weather cold and the ground is covered with sleet
                                    which renders it very disagreeable.
                        
                        Friday, 9. Wood is very scarce and the boys are shivering around
                                    a small fire.
                        Saturday, 10. I have to go on picket at 4 oclock P. M. the picket
                                    lines are more comfortable than the camp as there are more wood.
                        Sunday, 11. Clear and verry cold Sunday, but I did not know it
                                    till late when some one mentioned it.
                        Monday, 12. Cold as I ever saw it in Ind. Sleet still on the
                                    ground The suny south cant wear the name at present.
                        Tuesday, 13. Weather moderating to some extent we make
                                    preparations to move but not orders to move.
                        Wednesday, 14. Warm and mudy no indication of a moove to day.
                                    frequent skirmishing with the Johnies.
                        Thursday, 15. Five of Comp D on picket at 4 o'clock P.
                                    M. 1½ S. E. of fort Negley. Hard fighting all day.
                        Friday, 16. Relieved from picket at 4 P. M. 3rd division having
                                    mooved in vain we try to find our commands. Rebs left give way
                                    stubbornly.
                        Saturday, 17. We find our division with little difficulty this
                                    morning. The Rebs fell back last night. Marched very hard during
                                    the Afternoon towards 
                                        Franklin
                                    .
                        Sunday, 18. Go to 
                                        Franklin
                                     and camp on the battle ground.
                        Monday, 19. At an early hour start for Spring
                                    Hill. Details made to bury our dead over again at 
                                        Franklin
                                    .
                        Tuesday, 20. We remain at Spring Hill.
                                    Weather very cold.
                        Wednesday, 21. Still remain at rest expecting to moove every
                                    hour.
                        Thursday, 22. Still we rest at Spring Hill.
                                    Quite unwell. Cold and blustry.
                        Friday, 23. Ordered to 
                                        Columbia
                                    . I get transportation in an ambulance.
                        Saturday, 24. We remain in Camp at 
                                        Columbia
                                     north of Duck River.
                        Sunday, 25. A dry Christmas we rest but soldiers no more
                                    interested than common.
                        Monday, 26. Ordered to moove only cross the river and go 1
                                    ½ miles South of the town.
                        
                        Tuesday, 27. Third division rest all day neare Pulaska Pike.
                        Wednesday, 28. We go into winter Quarters, or have such orders.
                                    Weather turning cold.
                        Thursday, 29. Still cold and Snowy. Strict orders against
                                    foraging.
                        Friday, 30. Very coid not much to do but cook and eat.
                        Saturday, 31. Last day in the year some of the boys try to forage
                                    a 
                                        turkey
                                     for New Year but don't succeed.
                        Sunday, January 1, 1865. A dry new year. Joseph Fisher [Fort
                                    Eranch], Henry Hamilton [Francisco], Wm. Alen [
                                        Washington
                                    ], John Garrison [Folsomville] and myself are placed
                                    on picket 1½ miles north of 
                                        Columbia
                                    .
                        Monday, 2. Relieved from picket just at sun down. See and third
                                    divisions leave 
                                        Columbia
                                    , taking the 
                                        Mt. Pleasant
                                        Pike
                                    .
                        Tuesday, 3. First Division leave 
                                        Columbia
                                     at early morn and march as far as 
                                        Mt. Pleasant
                                     via 
                                        Mt. Pleasant
                                        Pike
                                    .
                        Wednesday, 4. 120th detached to guard the wagon train. Very rough
                                    marching the country being a very wilderness part.
                        Thursday, 5. March through Laurel Hill which
                                    is situated next to nowhere.
                        Friday, 6. 120th rest about 5 miles from Laurel
                                    Hill. The division pass during the day. Snow in the
                                    evening. 1st Lieut. Simmerman of comp D arrives.
                        Saturday, 7. Start for 
                                        Waynesboro
                                     and arrive at about 3 o'clock. The ground
                                    being frozen caused the days march to be very hard on us.
                        Sunday, 8. Remain at 
                                        Waynesboro
                                     during the day. Sec. Div. leave for 
                                        Clifton
                                        Tenn.
                                     120th still guard the train.
                        Monday, 9. First Div leave 
                                        Waynesboro
                                     for Clifton. Arrive about 4 o'clock Go on
                                    picket. It rains during the night.
                        Tuesday, 10. First Div remain in camp. Relieved from picket at
                                    dark. See div leave their present camp and go down to the
                                    landing.
                        Wednesday, 11. Clear and pleasant. Ordered to be ready for
                                    inspection this forenoon.
                        
                        Thursday, 12. We have grand inspection. Picket duty very heavy on
                                    us.
                        Friday, 13. Mail goes out for the first time since leaving 
                                        Columbia
                                        Tenn.
                                    
                        
                        Saturday, 14. On picket 1 ½ miles from camp.
                        Sunday, 15. Relieved from picket 23rd Corps ordered to 
                                        Louisville
                                     Ky.
                        Monday, 16. All quiet in camp. Heavy mail comes to 120th.
                        Tuesday, 17. First division moove down to the landing on the
                                        Tenn river.
                        Wednesday, 18. 1st Div leave at dark on board the steam boat
                                    Caroline.
                        Thursday, 19. Arrive at Paduka Ky. Draw rations, and leave the
                                    place at sunset.
                        Friday, 20. Arrive at 
                                        Evansville
                                     Ind. 10 of comp D are permitted to leave the boat
                                    for a short time, to go to the commissary dept and get an order
                                    for 4 bailes of hay, which we roll aboard the boat and tarry no
                                    longer.
                        Saturday, 21. More travelling. Only arrive at Leaven-worth Ind.
                        Sunday, 22. Boat prevented from running by the fog. Arrive at 
                                        Louisville
                                    , Ky. but tarry not.
                        Monday, 23. Pass 
                                        Madison
                                     Ind. A great deal of ice floating in the river.
                        Tuesday, 24. Get to 
                                        Cincinnati
                                        Ohio
                                     at early morn. Remain but a short time, till aboard
                                    of the cars and on our way to 
                                        Columbus
                                        Ohio
                                    . Where we arrive in the night.
                        Wednesday, 25. Leave 
                                        Columbus
                                     for Belair 
                                        Ohio
                                    .
                        Thursday, 26. Arrive at Belair, cross the river, draw rations and
                                    are soon aboard of the cars on the 
                                        Baltimore
                                     and 
                                        Ohio
                                     R. R. One of Comp D comes near freezing to death.
                        Friday, 27. Still traveling, the railroad is very rough. The
                                    weather is very cold, which render it very disagreeable on us.
                        Saturday, 28. Arrive at 
                                        Washington D. C.
                                     about 10 o'clock P. M. We go in barracks A
                                    Supper of light bread meat and hot coffee is given us.
                        
                        Sunday, 29. Moove 4 miles from town to camp Stoneman draw rations
                                    and Wedge tents and seem to fix up to live in quietude awhile.
                        Monday, 30. Clear and pleasant. Nothing to do but reflect on the
                                    past and think of what we have heard of our present camp in
                                    former times, when he were enjoying the pleasures of a quiet
                                    home.
                        Tuesday, 31. Appearance of snow. All quiet in camp. Nothing
                                    strange occurring.
                        February, Wednesday, 1. 120 band reported at 
                                        Washington
                                    .
                        Thursday, 2. 120th sign the payroll some prospect of getting a
                                    few green backs.
                        Friday, 3. Capt. Knowles returns to his command at 
                                        Washington D. C.
                                    
                        
                        Saturday, 4. Clear and pleasant. Boys resting quietly in camp.
                        Sunday, 5. Windy and disagreeable. Wood scarce as hen teeth.
                        Monday, 6. Still windy and cold tents can scarcely stand with the
                                    aid of 4 or 5 of us to resist the wind.
                        Tuesday, 7. Cold with considerable snow. Wind having a sweep of 8
                                    miles is almost irresistable.
                        Wednesday, 8. 120th paid off. A great many are swindled out of
                                    their amount due from some cause or other.
                        Thursday, 9. Boys being paid are having a jolly time. Eating
                                    luxuries which we have not had for a long time notwithstanding
                                    we have recently passed through the garden of 
                                        America
                                    .
                        Friday, 10. Several of Comp D go to town and visit the white
                                    house, where we see a great many curiosities, enough to excite
                                    the minds, and cause us to reflect on past history. (I express
                                    100 dols. home).
                        Saturday, 11. No news of importance more than rumors of peace
                                    which soldiers do not consider important, as they can place no
                                    confidence such. Grant & Sherman being the only peace
                                    commissioners in which the armies have confidence.
                        
                        Sunday, 12. Very cold. But wood a little more plenty if such
                                    terms are alowable as (more plenty)
                        Monday, 13. Passes still granted to the boys to go to the city,
                                    which they make good use of, as general thing. Yet there are
                                    some exceptions, and once in awhile a great deal of noise is
                                    made in camp occasioned by the use of intoxicating liquors.
                        Tuesday, 14. Valentine day when the young folks at home are in
                                    their finest glee and merriment. But doubtless more than a few
                                    boys in the army are like myself forgot it till the day was past
                                    and gone.
                        Wednesday, 15. Rainy and cold. One year since I returned to camp
                                    Knox my last furlough from that place being expired. One year
                                    ago the day was pleasant. Quit different to day.
                        Thursday, 16. Ground covered with ice which renders it very
                                    difficult getting about. 120th draw sanitary articles from the
                                    commission 1st Division under marching orders.
                        Friday, 17. Inspection of arms for the first time since leaving
                                    Clifton Te.
                        Saturday, 18. Camp full of rumors concerning peace, the capture
                                    of 
                                        Charleston
                                     and the evacuation of Willmington, none of which
                                    are known to be true or even likly to be reliable.
                        Sunday, 19. 120th receive but little mail which has been the
                                    condition since our arrival at camp Stoneman. Supposed the 1st
                                    Div will leave camp Stoneman the day following.
                        Monday, 20. Leave Camp Stoneman near 
                                        Washington D. C.
                                     and go to Alexandre Va. distant 6 miles. We are
                                    quartered at the Soldiers rest, and well provided for.
                        Tuesday, 21. Leave the Soldiers rest at 
                                        Alexandria
                                     and go on board the Steamer 
                                        New York
                                    . But remain at the Landing during the night.
                        Wednesday, 22. Embark at 3 o'clock P. M. having to wait
                                    for the tide to rise in order to get the ship from the landing.
                                    Go to the mouth of the Chesapeake Bay and ancor for the night.
                        Thursday, 23. At early morn proceed on our journey. Said to be
                                    going to Fort Fisher.
                        
                        Friday, 24, Still traveling towards the scene of action. We are
                                    followed most of the day by a rebel iron clad but the Sew York
                                    being too swift for them they give up the chase.
                        Saturday, 25. Anchored within 20 miles of Wilmington. Miilmington
                                    said to be taken on the 22 inst.
                        Sunday, 26. Receive orders to 
                                        Moorhead city
                                     N. C. to which point we set sail. Sea very rough.
                        Monday, 27. Arrive at 
                                        Moorhead City
                                     N. C. At this place remain but a short time till
                                    aboard the cars, and bound for Newbern where we arrive at 11
                                    o'clock P. M.
                        Tuesday, 28. Moove near 2½ miles from Newbern and go
                                    in regular camp.
                        Wednesday, March 1. Cloudy and raining to some extent. Mustered
                                    for pay. We have general inspection.
                        Thursday, 2. Cloudy and cool. A few of the capts order Cornp
                                    drill. Rumored that we are to remain here for some time and do
                                    post duty, though not generally believed.
                        Friday, 3. Leave Newbern N. C. for parts not generally known by
                                    the private soldier. Though it is a march of about 10 miles
                                    through mud and rain along the r. r. line.
                        Saturday, 4. Our march is continuing about 12 miles further
                                    through country almost impassible. First Div are now about 12
                                    miles from 
                                        Kingston
                                     where the Johns are said to be fortified.
                        Sunday, 5. Remain in camp. 120 receive a large mail. Inspection
                                    of arms and accouterments by the Lieut. Col. One of comp. D put
                                    on double duty for not putting his gun in better order.
                        Monday, 6. Div drill before and after noon. Weather clear and
                                    pleasant.
                        Tuesday, 7. Moove at 7 oclock A. M. to the advance Camp in
                                    hearing of the cannon near 
                                        Kingston
                                    . Rebs report to be leaving 
                                        Kingston
                                    .
                        Wednesday, 8. Received orders and mooved to the front and built
                                    breastworks. Corporal C. W. Bryant of Co. D was wounded. I will
                                    have to quit writing and try and get some sleep.
                        Thursday, 9. Have been working on our works all day.
                        
                        What is that! The Rebs are charging our works. I will get my gun
                                    and help to drive them back.
                        Friday, 10. Was mortally wounded and taken back to field
                                    Hospital.
                        Saturday, 11. Suffered a hundred deaths on account of his wound
                                    but endured all like a Soldier who was not afraid to die for his
                                    country. died at 3 o'clock P. M. and was buried at 6 P.
                                    M.
                        J. R. Thomas, Lieut.
                        Co. E 120th Ind.
                     
                  
               
                
            The following letters show home conditions.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        SARAH ROBINSON
                                    TO LOUISA ROBINSON.
                        September 14, 1856.
                        
                           
                                        Gibson
                                     Cy.
                        Dear son I write by Roberts request as he wanted to go to meeting
                                    to day to let you know he got home safe he got here friday night
                                    about 10 oclock and found us well he is much pleased with 
                                        Illinois
                                     and I hope he will try to go there Earl has Bought
                                    Brack Clarks land he gave him fifteen hundred Dollars I have
                                    Nothing to write worth your attention they are all well at Mr.
                                    Bensons I staid there last Saturday night and Sarah staid with
                                    me Sunday night there is a great deal of sickness here at this
                                    time Mr. Roseberry Died yesterday two weeks ago to day his
                                    Daughter Mrs. Noles was Buried and Mrs. Redmun Aunt ann is very
                                    low with the flux But is thought to be mending since Compeld to
                                    Call in Doctor Cook. I will Conclude after telling you there is
                                    people enough fixing to start to 
                                        Illinois
                                     in a few days to fill up a large part of the state
                                    I think the most of the 
                                        Gibson
                                     people will soon be there if the fever keeps up
                                    another year I want to see you all more than I can express this
                                    looks like a solitary place ever since you Ieft tell Sylvester
                                    and Martha I want to see them more than any one els. Nothing
                                    more But will remain your affectionate
                        Mother till Death
                        SARAH ROBINSON
                                    R. L. ROBINSON
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        FROM WM.
                                    & MARGARET BENSON
                                    TO JAMES & LOUISA ROBINSON.
                        
                           
                                        Gibson county
                                     State of Indiana May 20th 1857
                        Affectionate Children we again write to you we are all in common
                                    health for which we have abundant reason to be thankful to an
                                    all wise providence hoping this letter may find you in the same
                                    situation your connexion on both sides are well as far as we
                                    know. We have had a  cold
                                    backward spring some frost this morning the farmers mostly
                                    finished planting corn wheat crops looks very well far better
                                    than we expected in the winter the spring appears one month
                                    later than usual we ieceived your letter dated I think in
                                    February we answered your letter we understand that Louisa is
                                    afflicted with a soar Mouth we send below a receipt which if
                                    applied is said never to fail performing a cure, take black oak
                                    bark the inside bark boil it to a quart of strong ooze Take this
                                    willow commonly called water willow such as growes along black
                                    River take the root burn it to a coal then pulverize it as much
                                    as two heaping table spoonfuls put a lump of alluni in about the
                                    size of the red part of a hens Egg mix it all together then wash
                                    your mouth often if bad wash by night as well as day Swallow a
                                    little of the medicine ocasionly continue to use it some time
                                    after you think your mouth is well—Mr. Powel of
                                    Owensvill gave your Mother Directions how to Make this Medicine
                                    She made for Lydia Massy Doctor Cooks Wife & others has
                                    never failed to cure.
                        N. B. you must use oil pills or something to keep the bowels
                                    regular I want you to write let us know how you are as soon as
                                    you receive this letter be sure and use Black oak bark no other
                                    species oak will do you can find the willow I suppose along some
                                    of the Creeks if the willow is not to be found in your County we
                                    will send it to you.
                        So I will Conclude by subscribing our names
                        To JAMES & LOUISA ROBINSON
                        
                        WILLIAM & MARGARET BENSON
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        W. C. BENSON TO SYLVESTER ROBINSON
                        
                        Camp Knox Ind.
                        March 11th 1864
                        Well Sylvester I concluded that I would write you another letter,
                                    though it is with little hope of ever receiving an answer for I
                                    have never received an answer to a letter from Ills yet. I wrote
                                    a letter to Sarah about two month ago and have never got an
                                    answer. I have also written 2 or three to you without any
                                    respond. We are still in old Camp Knox. Four Infantry Comps are
                                    organized here. The balance of the regt is at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     where I expect we will go next week when the regt
                                    will be organized and sent to the field. The company I belong
                                    has been more than full, several have been transfered to another
                                    company. I received a letter from home yesterday stating that
                                    all was well. Santford has been at home. I was also at home part
                                    of the time he was. He looks very natural only a great deal
                                    larger. The 24th met to reorganize the other day and came into 
                                        Vincennes
                                     and tore up the 
                              
                                            Vincennes
                                         Sun press (a copperhead paper) then went
                                    to Evansvill to complete their organization. I have not heard
                                    from them since I don't know whether they are gone to
                                    dixie or not. The 58th has also reenlisted they passed down the
                                    other day on their way home on 30 days furlough. They passed the
                                    camp at half speed but not so fast but what I knew Henry Burke,
                                    who was standing between the cars. I  had forgot about their coming or I
                                    would have went to the junction and seen them. Some of the boys
                                    were up there and said some of the 58th boys were enquiring
                                    about me. But they knew not who made the inquiry. Trains loaded
                                    with Soldiers are passing every day and in every direction.
                        Our Company officers Commissioned are as follows:
                        Capt: ALBERT KNOWLES
                        
                        1st Lieut: JOHN STEPHENSON
                        
                        2nd " JAMES HART
                        
                        I do not know who will be our regimental or'ficers I
                                    expect to know in about a week No mom at present but write soon
                        W. C. BENSON
                        
                        To SYLVESTER ROBINSON
                        
                        This letter (as I forgot to tell you) leaves me in very good
                                    health and I hope will find the whole family enjoying the same.
                                    W. C. BENSON
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        March 22nd 1864
                        Friend Sylvester.
                        Although I have nothing of importance to communicate at present,
                                    yet I will make the attempt to answer your much intereting
                                    letter which I received a few days since. We are all enjoying a
                                    reasonable portion of health, except Sarah who has the dyspepsa.
                                    Today is very warm and plearan, but a little indication of rain.
                                    During the past week I have been building fense &
                                    hauling old rails for stove-wood. Well Sylvester, perhaps you
                                    would be pleased to know what we talk about in Indiana. The
                                    general discussion of the day is, the drait, the Southern
                                    rebels, and the northern butternuts or copperheads. I do not
                                    know whether I need give an explanation of this last mentioned
                                    name or not for I expect the name is as common in 
                                        Illinois
                                     as any where else. But what we call butternuts are
                                    men in the north who are doing all they can against the
                                    Administration. The are men who forget that Jeff Drtvis is a
                                    traitor, but are always denounceing 
                                        Lincoln
                                     & Gov. Morton as abolition trators. I need
                                    not go on to describe this party any further for the only
                                    difference between this pai-ty and southern rebels is, that the
                                    one possesses one more characteristic than the other. The
                                    butternuts are cowards and those in the south are not.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        WM. & Peggy Benson to
                                    James and Louisa Robbinson
                        February 16th 1865
                        AFFECTIONATE CHILDREN your
                                    letter has come to hand dated Jan. 31st we are glad to hear you
                                    are all well (sorry to hear of James Mavils misfortunc getting
                                    his house burnt) we Received a letter from 
                                        Columbus
                                     dated Jan. 31st 1865 he is at or near the Citty of 
                                        Washington D. C.
                                     he left 
                                        Clifton Tenn
                                     on the night of the 38th instant and arrived at 
                                        Washington
                                     on the night of the 29th being Eleven days
                                    & nights on those rout he states they have relieved 22d
                                    army corps who has been 
                                    stationed there for two years he thinks it probble they inay
                                    stay here for some time the 22d corp was sent front the weather
                                    was cold (as much they could do to keep from freezing had
                                    several chills on the boat & cars but was all right now
                                    he says are encamped two mile:, from the white hoube in plain
                                    view) I think it is likely they wili stay there for sometime
                                    they have been going for the most of the time for almost a year
                                    and need rest. Alanoch Smith has purchased Green Bosboroughs
                                    plantation for the sum of 7000. two hundred dollars (sold his
                                    Spoor farm to David Eppeson for $60 pr ncre) Allen
                                    Wilson has got up and about the reyt of the connection are all
                                    well as far as we know the health of the people is generly good
                                    James Spear was buried yesterday the last one of old Jacobs
                                    Children which makes eight that has died of consumption Dr
                                    Neilys wife died of Dropsy since you was here old James Malone
                                    is dead James Daugherty & Elijah Lucas has volunteered
                                    and gone to war this county makes up her compliment without
                                    drafting Posey & Vandaburg will draft
                        Property of every description is high pork sold at $12
                                    ½ 13 ½ & 14 a hundred I sold mine
                                    at Harmony for 13 ½ for one thousand &
                                    fourteen dollars corn is worth one dollar & ten cents a
                                    bushel in 
                                        Evansville
                                     wheat $1.80 & 85 hands to work
                                    on the farm is asking thirty dollars a month I expect they will
                                    get it. I forgot to name old aunt Nancy Montgomery she is dead
                                    Luck Douglass was killed in the battle before 
                                        Nashville
                                     was brought home buried in the Spilman grave yard
                                    These few lines leaves us all well
                        We Remain your affectionate
                        Father & Mother WM
                                    & PEGGY BENSON
                        
                        TO JAMES and LOUISA ROBBINSON
                        
                        N.B. answer soon
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        WM. C. HIMSOX
                                    to BROTHER & SISTER
                        
                        
                                    
                                        Alexandre
                                        Va.
                                    
                                
                        February 21st, 1865
                        Dear BROTHER & SISTER:
                        I will now occupy a few moments writing you a short letter
                                    relative to my health and whereabouts. As to my health I can say
                                    it is very good, and has been since our arrival at 
                                        Washington
                                    . We left Camp Stonernan near 
                                        Washington D. C.
                                     yesterday morning and came here distant G miles
                                    from the camp While at Camp Stoneman I answered Martha &
                                    Sylvester's letters which I received at 
                                        Clifton Tenn
                                     the day before we left there. I am looking every
                                    day for another letter from Martha B Sil
                                    Louisa you requested me to send my photograph to you a long time
                                    ago which I had not a chance to do till recently. I will now
                                    send you one taken in 
                                        Washington City
                                     the 16th inst I had a dozen taken and was going to
                                    send one to each of the family. But nobody ever writes to me
                                    only Sylvester (Benson). Lemyra writes once  about every 3 months. I wrote
                                    mother a letter this morning and sent her my photograph. And at
                                    the same time give the balance of the children goss (except
                                    Sylvester) for not writing and give them to understand if they
                                    got my photograph they would have to scratch for it, and scratch
                                    something in the shape of a letter at that. We are looking every
                                    minute to fall aboard of a ship to go some where unknown to us
                                    exactly some think we will land at fort Fisher and take it by
                                    land to wherever we are going. To days papers confirm 
                                        Columbia
                                     S. C. taken and also states that the rebs are
                                    evacuating Wilmington Alexandra is a beautiful town situated
                                    about 10 miles below 
                                        Washington
                                     on the Potoniac river. As we
                                    entered the town I was scarcely thinking where I was nor careing
                                    but little till the drums & fifes struck up (Elsworths
                                    body lies mouldering in the tomb.) This aroused my feelings for
                                    a while and caused me to think and reflect on history recently
                                    passed by. I remembered what a stir it caused in the north when
                                    Elsworth was killed at this place I believe Elsworth was a
                                    succor. Tell Lum & Woedfin I am all right And tell
                                    Martha & Syl to write often. I'll be sure to
                                    answer their letters. Write yourselves as often as convenient.
                        Yours & Go.
                        W. C. BENSON
                        
                        Go D 120 Regt Ind. Vol. Inft.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        SARAH BENSON
                                    to JAMES & LOUISA
                                        ROBINSON
                        
                        March the 26th 1865
                        Dear Sister and Erother it has become my painful duty to write
                                    you a few lines. That Haveing received news by last thursdays
                                    Mail that Brother Columbus was killed in the late Battle of 
                                        Kingston
                                    . N. Carolina he was not killed instantly. but was
                                    mortaly wounded in the Second days fight we hear that he lived
                                    two days after being wounded we cannot know whether he had any
                                    thing to say befor he died or not. Our Poor Brother lies now
                                    beneath the sod of 
                                        North Carolina
                                     not far from the Atlantic
                                    Ocean. Brother Sylvester has just come and brought a
                                    letter from Dr. Marshal Neely. Stating that 
                                        Columbus
                                     was shot in the bowels also stating that he died
                                    the next day after being wounded. He was wounded in the 2nd
                                    days. (battle) Dr. Neely stated that a friend of Brothers took
                                    care of him untill he died and took possession of his body he is
                                    buried near the hospital where he died his grave is marked and
                                    may be found at any time. Sylvester says he going to have hirn
                                    brought home. I sometimes feel reconciled that he is gone as I
                                    think he is resting from all the toils and troubles of this most
                                    awful war. he sleeps in death and will hear of wars no more. he
                                    is now numbered with the Heroic dead, haveing fought for
                                    Liberty, and union we are Cheered at tine thought of his dying
                                    in a good cause.
                        We received a letter from him dated march the 2nd written just 6
                                    days before he received that fatal wound. I will now bring my
                                    letter  to a close hoping
                                    you will excuse me for not writing a more lengthy letter as you
                                    know I do not feel like writing at this time we are all well but
                                    greatly troubled no more from your Sister.
                        SARAH BENSON.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        MYRA to LOUISA ROBINSON
                        
                        Thursday April the 21st 65
                        DEAR SISTER
                        
                        I will drop you these few lines, as you requested us to write
                                    soon. Mother & Father are verry poorly. Nother was taken
                                    two weeks ago last monday and has not been able to sit up an
                                    hour at a time since. Although she is now mending and I think
                                    she will get up again if she does not take a back set she was
                                    taken with a severe cough and fever, trouble is the greatest
                                    cause of her sickness. Father is verry poorly although he is
                                    able to be up. He seems to take this trouble as hard as Mother
                                    But he was stouter and abler to bear it. he looks worse than I
                                    ever saw him. You requested us to write to you whether Brother
                                    had any thing to say before he died or not. George Williams of
                                    the same company wrote back that Columbus said to tell Mother
                                    that he died like a man and a soldier fighting for his country
                                    and was standing at his post, he said to tell her that he
                                    thought of her every day. The Boys said when they were carrying
                                    him off the battle ground, that he talked of home and Mother
                                    they did not write whether he was willing to die or not But
                                    Louisa we know Lum was a good boy and a thoughtful one and hope
                                    that he is now at rest.
                        Mr. Pritchet of Owensville started after him two weeks ago last
                                    Friday it will be three week tomorrow. when he started he
                                    supposed it would take him 4 weeks he is going to telegraph to
                                    princeton when he gets to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . and then there will be a runner sent down to let
                                    us know when he will be here. We would like for you to be here
                                    if was so you could The last accound we had of Prichet he was at 
                                        Washington City
                                     and had his papers arranged so that he could go on
                                    Father has rented his place out he had hired a hand to work on
                                    the farm but he has concluded not to raise a crop. there was a
                                    man here this morning to rent the field that he was going to
                                    hire he sent him to Sylvester and told him to tell Syl to rent
                                    him the ground for what he thought it was worth. he said he did
                                    not feel like attending to any business himself He talks
                                    sometimes of moving to Owensville. He says he knowes he never
                                    will see any more satisfaction here for he can go no where about
                                    the place but what he sees something that reminds him of 
                                        Columbus
                                    . But I think he will get out of the notion of
                                    mooving after awhile.
                        Well as my paper is about spent I will have to quit. I will write
                                    to you a gain when they bring brother home you must excuse bad
                                    writing for I have written it on my lap.
                        MYRA
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        SARAH BENSON
                                    to her SISTER
                        
                        April the 27th 1865
                        DEAR SISTER,
                        I will write again in order to inform you that Mothers health is
                                    improveing some as she is able to sit up some and walk about the
                                    room a little. Father I think is some better although he has
                                    been very poorly. This will inform you that Mr. Pritchet
                                    returned with the remains of Brother Columbus Monday the 24 of
                                    the present month and buried at our old family grave yard the
                                    25th. nlr. Pritchet was gone just three weeks 2nd three days
                                    makeing a very quick trip, after haveing traveled about three
                                    thousand miles in order to get him, he said he did not have any
                                    trouble in finding him, as he fell in company with the Doctor
                                    that attended on 
                                        Columbus
                                     after being wounded, he had Colum-buses name
                                    written in one of his Books Company regiment
                        The Doctor took his Book and went with Par. Pritchet and pointed
                                    out where he lay his head board being marked with his name.
                                    Company regiment D Mr. Prichet said the Doctor told him that he 
                                        Columbus
                                     seemed to suffer a great deal for awhile until he
                                    gave him medicine which seemed to relieve his sufferings he was
                                    by mistake taken to the wrong Hospital and was attended on by a
                                    Doctor from Massetustts he brought his head board home with him
                                    he had him put in a very nice Metalic coffin costing
                                    $60 there was a great many people at his burying MY.
                                    Walker made a short discours over his Death, and Concluded by
                                    the rev Mr. Hudson. I will now bring my lettey to a close as I
                                    have given you all the information I can, no more from your
                                    sister.
                        SARAH BENSON.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        SYLVESTER BENSON
                                        to JAMES & LOUISA ROBINSON
                        
                        Gibson Co. Ind May 7th 1865
                        DEAR, SISTER & BROTHER and FAMILY
                        
                        I embrace this opportunity of writing you a few lines, in answer
                                    to a short letter I received From you a few days ago. You wish
                                    to know the particulars concerning Brother Columbus death. From
                                    the Best information we can get he was mortally wounded on the
                                    10th of Narch in the Battle of Kinston N. C. at or near the
                                    close of a 2 ½ days fight, and died the next day at 3
                                    o'clock in the evening, he was shot in the left side
                                    near the groin, the Ball remaining in his body. (This is
                                    Prickett statement) He was carried to n field Hospital, but from
                                    some mistake was not taken to the hospital of his own regiment,
                                    as surgeon NeeEy of the 120th wrote to me, he was buried near
                                    the Hospital where he died, by the side of a Leutenant that died
                                    froi wounds at alniost the same moment that he died.
                        The soldiers used a couple of cracker Boxes one at his head, the
                                    other at his feet, for a coffin his grave was fenced. His head
                                    Bord was marked, with his name, Regt. Co. the day he was
                                    wounded, an the  day he
                                    died. A. Prictchett Brought the head board with his body.
                                    Fritchett was gone 3 wks and 4 ds. arrived at fathers on 24th of
                                    April. Columbus was buried on the 25th by the side of Grand
                                    Mother Leach, there was a great many people at his Burial. All
                                    of our family was there but you and Mother. He was conscious, he
                                    told some of the soldiers to tell his Mother that he died a true
                                    soldier. Surgeon J. M. Neely wrote to me that he was a brave
                                    soldier. Lt. [John M.] Siinmerman [
                                        Evansville
                                    ] that comd the company in the Battle, wrote to
                                    Father that he was a brave and good soldier. and beloved by all
                                    that knew him, I do not know who of his acquaintance was with
                                    him when he died his comrades have sent Back some of his
                                    personal affects, such as his Diary, inkstand pen, Necktye,
                                    Leather gloves, 2 Pocket Books and I believe six of his own
                                    Photographs. His diary was written By himself up to the 9th of
                                    March, he says of the 9th we are at work on the fortifications,
                                    But. winds up by saying "the rebels are charging our
                                    works. I will take my gun and help drive them back,"
                                    these I expect were the last words he ever wrote (his 2 Lt.
                                    [John R.] Thomas wrote what hapened the 10th, 11th) He was
                                    buried in a Metalic case, the expense of Bringing his remains
                                    home was $267.45 ct much less than I expected.
                                    Pritchett is possessed of both energy and honor, and should be
                                    respected by all of us while we live, I (or we) gave him
                                    $125. for his trouble, he came home By way of
                                            
                              New
                                        York, Cleaveland
                                        Toledo
                            &c. there being an
                                    order against disinterments Mother has been sick for a month or
                                    more she was conbiderably better on last sunday she has a bad
                                    cough, and some fever at times But is anxious to get well, she
                                    mends very slow, there is no doubt but trouble was the prinripal
                                    cause of her sickness, She appears in better spirits, than she
                                    was the first week or two after she heard of 
                                        Columbus
                                     Death, She was on last sunday able to be up an hour
                                    or two at a time. Father appears to be worse grived if possible,
                                    than Mother, I never saw him look so emaciated unless prostrated
                                    by sickness, he sometimes eats nothing for two or three days at
                                    a time. He wants to sell his property (personal) and move to
                                    Owensville he has but little to say, he says he cannot think of
                                    any thing but 
                                        Columbus
                                    , you request me to go and see them often, I have
                                    went to see them often, but have not seen nor heard from them
                                    for a week, but their hired hand would let me know if they were
                                    worse, I will go and see them again in a day or two. Sarah is
                                    not very well, I believe the rest of our connection are well.
                        James Rossborough Died a few days ago on the old Ricey Waters
                                    Place of Diphtheria the complaint is dangerous and is said to be
                                    contagious, Ridenour was with him and report says he has taken
                                    it to day. I am in hopes it is untrue. You must excuse me for my
                                    bad writing and blunders. I am writing by a very dim light. I
                                    calculate to go to 
                                        Princeton
                                     tomorrow, and will mail this letter their we have
                                    had a very wet spring Farmers are behind time with their corn
                                    crops. Any information you request if you will write to me I
                                    will answer you to the best of my knowledge, I have not been
                                    with Absalom Pritchett very 
                                    much since his return, and generally there was a good many
                                    others present when I was in his company, as he went out to
                                    Kinston on board of a vessel the force pump bursted and the
                                    vessel came near sinking he said he would have given all he was
                                    worth at any time during 8 hours to have been on dry land. 
                                        Columbus
                                     Body he says was much decayed, he could not
                                    recognize it, But he saw the surgeon and hospital stewart that
                                    attended on him, the surgeon told him he suffered a good deal
                                    the first evening but the day he died he was compparatively
                                    easy, so no more.
                        But remain your Brother,
                        SYLVESTER BENSON
                        
                        To J & LOUISA ROBINSON
                        
                     
                  
               
                
         
      
   
