
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 96, Issue 3, pages 213-310. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:96+issue:3+year:2000&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Fallow Yet Fertile: The Field of Indiana Women's History
            Nancy Gabin∗
            
            If scholars have taught us anything in the last twenty-five years, it is that women's
                    experiences, like men's, have varied widely and that women's history is not a
                    uniform category. Although gender provides same-sex people with shared experiences, it also is
                    affected by other sources of identity such as race, ethnicity, age, marital status, sexual
                    orientation, and class. Writing the history of women in Indiana is therefore an ambitious
                    enterprise. Despite the state's relative ethnic homogeneity, the variety of settlements,
                    occupations, and lifestyles that it encompasses makes generalizations even about white native-born
                    females difficult. And although too-often "invisible" in historical writing and in
                    contemporary society, the state's women of color complicate further any examination of
                    women's history. While there are books and articles on Indiana women's history,
                    generally speaking the subject has received little attention, either from historians whose work
                    focuses on Indiana or from those who have made women's history one of the most significant
                    developments in the discipline in the last quarter century. In contrast to the historiography on
                    women in other states, there exists no body of literature clearly identifiable as the history of
                    women in Indiana.1 For this and other 
                  
                     ∗Nancy Gabin is associate professor of history at Purdue
                            University, West 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana. The author would like to thank Barbara Steinson, Bernard Sheehan,
                            Lana Ruegamer, an anonymous reviewer, and, especially, Michael A. Morrison, for their warm
                            encouragement and helpful comments.
                  
                     Editors' Note. This is the fourth in a series of
                            bibliographical essays commissioned by the Indiana Magazine of History and
                            supported by a Clio grant from the Indiana Historical Society. Earlier essays surveyed
                            research in Indiana's geography (by John A. Jakle, September 19931, education (by
                            William J. Reese, December 1993), and rural life (by Barbara Steinson, September 1994). The
                            editors wish to thank IHS and its Projects Committee for underwriting this series.
                  
                     1Historical studies of women in other states include the following:
                            Suzanne Lebsock, "A Share of Honour": 
                                    Virginia
                                 Women, 160011945 (
                                Richmond
                            , Va., 1984); Genevieve G. McBride, On 
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Women: Working for Their Rights from Settlement to Suffrage (
                                Madison
                            , Wis., 1993); Mary R. Murrin, ed., Women in 
                                    New Jersey
                                 History (Trenton, N.J., 1985); Joan N. Burstyn, ed., Past
                                and Promise: Lives of 
                                    New Jersey
                                 Women (
                                Metuchen
                            , N.J., 1990); Margaret Supplee Smith, 
                        
                                    North Carolina
                                 Women: Making History (Chapel Hill, N.C., 1999);
                            Fane Downs and Nancy Baker Jones, eds., Women and 
                                    Texas
                                 History: Selected Essays (Austin, Tex., 1993); and Mary Martha Thomas,
                            ed., Stepping Out of the Shadows: 
                                    Alabama
                                 Women, 1819-1990 (
                                Tuscaloosa
                            , Ala., 1995).
               
                     reasons, the "field of Indiana women's
                    history is both fallow and an area of great promise.
            The most comprehensive historical study of Indiana women is Women of Indiana,
                    compiled by journalist Blanche Foster Boruff in 1941.2 The bulk of the book is a
                    "who's who" and "who was who" of Hoosier women, as
                    determined by the standards of the day. Introductory essays on Indiana women and women's
                    organizations precede the biographies of 295 individuals. These essays created the only available
                    outline of Indiana women's history. Although Boruff and her associates were not, by their
                    own admission, professional historians, their outline has been used frequently since 1941 by writers
                    of both popular and academic histories of Indiana. Beginning about 1800 and focusing on white
                    settlement, Boruff first highlights Frances Wright and Robert Dale Owen and then chronicles woman
                    suffrage organizations in Indiana and the organization and development of the Women's
                    Christian Temperance Union (WCTU), the Indiana Federation of Women's Clubs, the Legislative
                    Council of Indiana Women, Business and Professional Women's clubs, and the Indiana League
                    of Women Voters. Boruff pays some attention to post-1920 developments, including women's
                    involvement in the Republican and Democratic parties, and to women's access to professions
                    such as education, the fine and performing arts, journalism, fiction-writing, the law, nursing, and
                    medicine.
            Boruff and her contributors considered themselves amateur historians with a feminist goal.
                    "This resume of women's activities in Indiana," Boruff modestly began,
                    "is not, in any sense, a history." Aware that historical writing implies critical
                    evaluation, they apologized that their motive in writing the overview essay was "to show
                    the wonderful development women have made during the past fifty years." With a nod to
                    empiricism, the compilers "endeavored to give accurate facts, but," they
                    complained, "collecting historical data is difficult. This is especially the case in regard
                    to the work of women, as it has been ignored by historians until recent years."3 A reference to Mary Ritter Beard—an 
                        Indianapolis
                     native and DePauw University graduate—and the small group who pioneered in
                    the research and writing of women's history, this statement would hold true at least thirty
                    years after it appeared in print.4 But with all due respect for 
                  
                     2Blanche Foster Boruff, Women of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1941).
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 8.
                  
                     4 The work of this important group includes the following: Elisabeth
                            Anthony Dexter, Colonial Women of Affairs: Women in Business and the
                                Professions in America before 1776 (
                                Boston
                            , 1931); Julia Cherry Spruill, Women's Life and Work in
                                the Southern Colonies (Chapel Hill, N.C., 1938); Mary Sumner
                            Benson, Women in Eighteenth-Century America: A Study of Opinion and Social
                                Usage (
                                New York
                            , 1935); and Mary Ritter Beard, Woman as Force in History: A Study
                                in Traditions and Realities (
                                New York
                            , 1946; reprint, 1987). See also Bonnie Smith, "The Contribution of
                            Women to Modern Historiography in Great Britain, 
                                France
                            , and the 
                                United States
                            , 1750-1940," American Historical Review, LXXXM (June
                            19841, 709-32; Nancy F. Cott, A Woman Making History: Mary Ritter Beard Through
                                Her Letters (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1991).
               
                     the challenges that they faced and the work that they
                    accomplished, Boruff and her colleagues evaluated historical significance in ways that narrowed and
                    limited their purportedly general narrative. Women were pioneers who worked "hand in hand
                    with the men, ran the gauntlet of hostile Indians and established homes."5 Oblivious to the presence of Native American women, the authors also excluded black women
                    from the list of notable Hoosier women. The compilers were selective in other ways as well. Of the
                    295 women whose biographies are included (most of whom were alive at the time of writing), a mere
                    handful are Jewish or Catholic and all are decidedly middle-to-upper-class. Moreover, Boruff s
                    interpretive focus on individual biography and the white middle-class experience has not been
                    replaced or eclipsed since its articulation nearly sixty years ago.6
            
            Complementing Women of Indiana are histories of women's organizations such
                    as the Federation of Women's Clubs, the WCTU, and the League of Women Voters, written by
                    members of their own groups.7 Although they collect useful information about the
                    organizations, their goals and purposes, and their leaders and members, these organizational
                    histories are uncritical. They avoid controversy and canonize women leaders. Representatives of the
                    notable woman approach to women's history, they provide little context for their
                    subjects' lives and are more interesting as primary sources than as histories of women in
                    the Hoosier state.8
            
            While no comprehensive history of Indiana women has yet appeared, there has been a significant
                    expansion of work in this field, especially since 1970. Whereas Boruff s volume and the histories of
                    Hoosier women's organizations celebrate their subjects, much of this newer research offers
                    a more critical perspective. This essay examines the available scholarship and suggests further
                    opportunities for research and writing. Although works available now offer a broader perspective on
                    and knowledge of the female experience in the state 
                  
                     5 Boruff, Women of Indiana, 11.
                  
                     6 The works on black women in Indiana written by Darlene Clark Hine
                            and Emma Lou Thornbrough are exceptions. Hine, When the Truth is Told: A
                                History of Black Women's Culture and Community in Indiana,
                            1875–1950 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1981); Thornbrough, "The History of Black Women in Indiana,"
                            in Indiana's African-American Heritage: Essays from Black History
                            News & Notes, ed. Wilma L. Gibbs (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1993), 67-85.
                  
                     7 Grace Gates Courtney, History, Indiana Federation of
                                Clubs (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Ind., 1939); Frances Hendrickson, Hoosier Heritage 1874-1974:
                                Women's Christian Temperance Union (n. p., 1974); Katharine Greenough, A History of the League of Women Voters of Indiana, 1920-1952 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1977); Caroline McMath Goodwin, History of the Indiana League of
                                Women Voters during World War IZ, 1941-1945 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1946).
                  
                     8 On the historiography of the field see Gerda Lerner,
                            "Placing Women in History: Definitions and Challenges." Feminist Studies, III (Fall 1975). 5-14; Linda Gordon, "U. S.
                            Women's History," G The New American History, ed. Eric
                            Foner (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1990), 185-210; and Mari Jo Buhle, "Feminist Approaches to Social
                            History," in Encyclopedia of American Social History, ed. Mary
                            Cayton et al. (
                                New York
                            , 1993), 319-33.
               
                     than those of thirty years ago, there is much more we could and
                    should know. What is needed is research that complicates, modernizes, and extends the narrative
                    established sixty years ago.
            The history of women in Indiana's frontier period remains a barren landscape. There is no
                    study that focuses specifically on women in Indiana before the early 1800s. Boruff and the other
                    white middle-class women who established the standard historical narrative projected themselves
                    self-centeredly (if unconsciously) backward through time and sought their seventeenth- and
                    eighteenth-century origins not in North America but in the British Isles and western Europe. They
                    overlooked the Indian peoples who were displaced by whites from 
                        France
                     and 
                        England
                    . If Boruff and her colleagues thought about Native Americans at all, it was as an
                    undifferentiated male mass. Yet, as Andrew Cayton reminds us in his recent survey of frontier
                    Indiana, Indian tribes were "the masters of Indiana in the first half of the eighteenth
                        century."9 Moreover, by the mid-eighteenth century the territory
                    contained a multicultural world, populated by the Miami and other Indians, French families in 
                        Vincennes
                    , British land speculators and traders, and Anglo-American farmers, all living on land
                    along the banks of the Wabash River and its tributaries.10
            
            Women's place in this middle ground warrants greater attention. Scholars debate about the
                    extent to which the experience of European colonization undermined native women's power
                    relative to men. European settlement in North America heightened the importance of native
                    men's activities as hunters, traders, warriors, and diplomats, and this prompted a general
                    and pervasive shift to patridominance. The American Midwest, however, may have seen an exception to
                    this historical trend. In her analysis of the Mandan, Omaha, and Fox, semisedentary village tribes
                    in what we now know as 
                  North Dakota, Kansas
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , Tanis C. Thorne argues that the experiences of native women in the Midwest differed
                    from that of women in other regions. She emphasizes that midwestern tribes-people had
                    "relatively gender-balanced economies and ideologies." Native American women also
                    actively participated in intertribal as well as European trade from the mid-1600s to the mid-1800s.
                    Thorne also questions the widely held view that marriages between white men and native women were a
                    form of racial bondage and female commodification. She instead highlights the role of native women
                    "as cultural brokers and political intermediaries" and speculates that this
                    "public responsibility… was perhaps more highly developed in the Midwest than
                    elsewhere…." Lucy Eldersveld Murphy argues similarly. Examining the Fox and Sauk
                    in 
                        Wisconsin
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    , Murphy 
                  
                     9Andrew Cayton, Frontier Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1996), 6.
                  
                     10For the prestatehood period see John D. Barnhart and Dorothy L.
                            Riker, Indiana to 1816: The Colonial Period. Vol. I: The
                                History of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1971).
               
                     finds that native women's domination of agriculture
                    and mining offered them independence as well as power and influence.11
            
            Although no one has examined gender roles and relations among the native groups along the
                        Wabash River, evidence suggests that similar dynamics obtained there. Many
                    Indian tribes lived in the area that would become Indiana, but the most important were the Miami.
                    Like other Indian groups, the Miami had a strict gender division of labor; at the same time they
                    offered women a degree of respect and equality that was ordinarily denied European women. Indian
                    women not only bore, cared for, and socialized children, made clothes, and prepared meals, but they
                    were also agriculturists with responsibility for the cultivation and distribution of crops.
                    Women's control of crops and the frequent absences of men to hunt, fish, trade, and fight
                    offered women power and influence that offset or balanced male power and privilege. The Miami
                    divided themselves into clans based on patrilineal kinship ties, but they also had female chiefs who
                    were in charge of feasts, collecting supplies for war parties, and negotiating the end of
                    long-standing feuds.
            Marriages between native women and European men acquire a different significance when
                    women's power is taken into account. Although native villages remained fairly segregated
                    from the French, British, and Americans, some relationships among them did develop. In the
                    eighteenth century at French posts such as Ouiatenon, Kekionga, and 
                        Vincennes
                    , the most important of these were between French males—traders and
                    officials—and Algonquian women. These relationships were often both economic and
                    diplomatic alliances, and formal marriages were performed according to the customs of the Indians.
                    Both groups benefited from these relationships. On the one hand, they gave Frenchmen entry into
                    village society, which required that they have both companions and trading partners; and on the
                        
                  
                     11 Tanis C. Thorne, "For the Good of Her People: Continuity
                            and Change for Native Women of the Midwest, 1650-1850," in Midwestern Women: Work,
                            Community, and Leadership at the Crossroads, ed. Lucy Eldersveld Murphy and Wendy Hamand
                            Venet (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1997), 95-120; Murphy, To Live Among Us: Accommodation, Gender, and
                            Conflict in the Western Great Lakes Region, 1760-1832," in Contact Points: American
                            Frontiers from the Mohawk Valley to the 
                                Mississippi
                            , 1750-1830, ed. Andrew R. L. Cayton and Fredrika Teute (Chapel
                            Hill, N.C., 1998), 270-303; Murphy, "Autonomy and the Economic Roles of
                            Indian Women of the Fox-Wisconsin Riverway Region, 1763-1832," in Negotiators of
                            Change: Historical Perspectives on Native American Women, ed. Nancy Shoemaker (
                                New York
                            , 1995), 72-89. For analyses of the impact of colonization on native women and
                            information about Native American women in Indiana before removal see Mona Etienne and
                            Eleanor Leacock, eds., Women and Colonization: Anthropological Perspectives (
                                New York
                            , 1980); Sylvia 
                                Van
                             Kirk, Many Tender Ties: Women in the Fur-Trade Society, 1670-1870 (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 1980); Nancy Shoemaker, "Introduction," in Shoemaker,
                            ed., Negotiators of Change, 1-25; Carol Devens, Countering Colonization: Native American
                            Women and Great Lakes Missions, 1630-1900 (Berkeley, Calif., 1992); and Richard White, The
                            Middle Ground: Indians, Empires, and Republics in the Great Lakes Region, 1650-1815 (
                                Cambridge
                            , U.K., 1991).
               
                     other hand, they offered Indian women greater influence and
                    privileges for themselves and their kin.12
            
            British and American traders and officials also married Indian women; indeed, this is how native
                    women most often have found their way into observers' reports and historians'
                    accounts. John Lauritz Larson and David G. Vanderstel tell the story of William Conner, a fur trader
                    turned land agent, who married a 
                        Delaware
                     woman named Mekinges in 1802. Describing Conner as an "agent of
                    empire" whose "story reveals … the central role of enterprise as the
                    primary constant in a frontier life that offered wrenching changes," Larson and Vanderstel
                    criticize their subject for taking an Indian wife to advance his own career: Conner helped to
                    negotiate the removal of the 
                        Delaware
                     from the state and then coldly bade Mekinges farewell as she and her people were driven
                    from Indiana to 
                        Missouri
                    . Within four months of the removal of his Indian wife and children from the region,
                    Conner married a white woman and subsequently never mentioned his first wife or their children.
                    While evidence of Conner's intent is scant—he left no written statements about
                    his feelings for his first wife and her removal—Larson's and
                    Vanderstel's sophisticated analysis is compelling. Yet at the same time, we learn little
                    about Mekinges. If Thorne, Murphy, and others are right, there may be another personal narrative
                    here worth reconstructing.13
            
            
               
                  12Cayton, Frontier Indiana, 7-8. We also know too little
                        about the French in Indiana. The French who settled 
                            Vincennes
                         in the late seventeenth and eighteenth centuries followed different gender systems
                        than those of the Indians. But French law regarding the protection of family property and the
                        frequent absence of husbands gave Frenchwomen much the same kind of power and influence that
                        Miami women enjoyed. Treatments of Frenchwomen in North America in the seventeenth and
                        eighteenth centuries include the following: ibid., 49-50; Winstanley Briggs,
                        "The Enhanced Status of Women in French Colonial 
                            Illinois
                        ," in The Quiet Heritage: Proceedings from a Conference on the
                            Contributions of the French to the Upper Midwest, ed. Clarence A. Glasrud (Moorhead,
                        Minn., 1987); Susan C. Boyle, "Did She Generally Decide? Women in Ste. Genevieve,
                        1750-1805," William and Mary Quarterly, XLIV (October 19871, 775-89;
                        and Joseph L. Peyser, "The Fall and Rise of Thérése Catin: A
                        Portrait from Indiana's French and Canadian History," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XCI (December 19951, 361-77. Bridgett Williams-Searle's
                        dissertation-in-progress will tell us much more about gender, ethnicity, and race in Indiana in
                        the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. See Williams-Searle, "Resolving the
                        Revolution: African-American Women and the Restructuring of Civil Society in Indiana,
                        1778-1825" (paper in author's possession, presented at the Berkshire
                        Conference on the History of Women, University of 
                     Rochester, Rochester
                  , N. Y.,
                        June 5, 1999).
               
                  13John Lauritz Larson and David G. Vanderstel, "Agent of Empire:
                        William Conner on the Indiana Frontier, 1800-1855," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, LXXX (December 1984), 301-28, quote on p. 303. William Wells is another
                        intermediary worthy of further investigation. Born in 1770, Wells was captured by a party of
                        Miamis in 
                            Kentucky
                         in 1784. He became a Miami warrior and married a daughter of Little Turtle. But
                        Wells shiffed back-and-forth between Miami and American societies, serving as an army scout and
                        Indian agent for the 
                            United States
                         government and as a leader of the Miami; he also abandoned his wife and children
                        for long stretches of time. After his Miami wife died, Wells married a white woman. See Paul A.
                        Hutton, "William Wells: Frontier Scout and Indian Agent," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, LXXIV (September 19781, 183-222.
            
            
            The story of William Conner and Mekinges, however, also suggests the extent to which this
                    once-multicultural region changed after the 1760s as first the British and then American officials
                    and Hoosier settlers asserted themselves. French policy, based on mutual economic advantage, pursued
                    cooperation and persuasion rather than exploitation or coercion of Indian allies. American policy,
                    by contrast, was to acquire land for colonization and development by Americans and to remove
                    Indians. Americans accomplished their goals in stages, at first offering Indians cash annuities,
                    land allotments, gifts, salt, the elimination of debts claimed by traders, and acculturation of
                    Indians to a new way of life—in return for land. Hence, as Cayton explains, Indian
                    villages became home "to peoples feeling the full effects of spatial, ecological, and
                    cultural dislocation. Virtually everything in Indian society was at issue, from gender roles to the
                    power of shamans to the role of hunting."14
            
            Over the years, Native American men's work became increasingly difficult. Settlers reduced
                    the size of forests, diminishing the population of beavers and deer, while European conflicts
                    curtailed the market for furs and skins. Indian men, nevertheless, would not farm, because to them
                    it was women's work; the Potawatomi and Miami refused to become, like whites, a society of
                    sedentary farm families. It was, moreover, only a matter of time before they were forced to leave
                    Indiana. In the first decade of the nineteenth century, the Miami and the 
                        Delaware
                     surrendered their claims to southern Indiana. In the twenty years following the War of
                    1812, these tribes and the Potawatomi gave up the northern half as well. By 1840, only the Miami
                    were left as an intact tribe wholly within Indiana.
            The impact on Native American gender roles and relations of the Indians' transition from fur
                    traders to land traders and of the increased presence of a white pioneer population in northern
                    Indiana warrants greater attention. In his book on the Miami in Indiana, Stewart Rafert opens
                    several promising lines of inquiry into the history of Native Americans in Indiana in the
                    post-Revolutionary years. Rafert notes that tribal population declined by two-thirds in one
                    generation because of increased disease, violence, and desertion, and that most of the losses were
                    men. This in turn, he argues, had two separate but related consequences for women. First, the
                    unbalanced sex ratio further weakened the tribe by encouraging women's out-marriage.
                    Secondly, it also tended to raise the status of women, many of whom now preserved tribal culture,
                    remaining in their cabins and fields, going out little, and speaking only the Miami language. The
                    importance of the subject and the availability of primary sources make this a promising project.15
            
            
               
                  14Cayton, Frontier Indiana, 200.
               
                  15Stewart Rafert, The Miami Indians of Indiana: A Persistent
                            People, 1654-1994 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1996). See also Rafert, "Ozahshinquah" A Miami Woman's
                        Life," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History (hereafter, Traces), IV (Spring 1992), 4-11.
            
            
            While white male pioneer experience in Indiana has been studied frequently, the daily lives of the
                    white women who settled here remain beclouded and distorted. As a result, the role of pioneer women
                    has long been highly romanticized and to some extent fictionalized. As Barbara Steinson notes in her
                    review of the historiography of rural Indiana, "the settlement era has generated a
                    substantial corpus of 'hardy pioneer' literature."16
                    The characterization of the female settler in Women of Indiana as "the
                    pioneer mother [whose] courageous heart and undimmed vision gave life to the founding of our
                    commonwealth" is typical.17 At its best, this approach can provide
                    useful and suggestive information: Logan Esarey's The Indiana Home, for
                    example, is more than just a charming evocation of life in early Indiana. The essays, found after
                    his death in 1942, were written both as lectures and as entertainments and memoirs for his
                    grandchildren; they offer vivid descriptions of women's work—-swapping seeds,
                    dropping corn, washing wool, caring for poultry. But many details remain undeveloped, undocumented,
                    and unverified.18
            
            The prospects for a revision of our knowledge about the female experience in antebellum Indiana
                    improved somewhat in the early 1970s. In a suggestive essay published in 1971, John Modell argued
                    that families, not self-sufficient frontiersmen, "provided the basic element of social
                    structure on the frontier." Analyzing punchcard transcriptions of entries by household in
                    the census enumerators' manuscripts for Indiana in 1820, Modell found that family structure
                    was overwhelmingly nuclear in all areas on the Indiana frontier. "The family,"
                    Modell concluded, "passed almost intact to the Old Northwest frontier."19 Modell's essay was part of a trend in frontier studies challenging
                    Frederick Jackson Turner and his disciples. Studies of communities, such as John Mack
                    Faragher's Sugar Creek: Life on the 
                            Illinois
                            Prairie
                        
               , confirmed and reinforced Modell's discovery.20
                    Like Modell, Faragher emphasized the role of kinship groups in settling 
                        Illinois
                    , and his strategy naturally integrated women into the narrative. Unfortunately, no one
                    has used Sugar Creek as a model for a detailed local study of rural life in
                    Indiana during the period of settlement. Older studies tended either to overlook women or to speak
                    sentimentally about them. Esarey's evocation of the sturdy pioneer woman's life
                    seems to have been based largely on his imagination. Published in the same period, R. Carlyle
                    Buley's Pulitzer prize-winning The Old Northwest reads as though everyone
                    in the territory had 
                  
                     16Barbara J. Steinson, "Rural Life in Indiana,
                            1800-1950," Indiana Magazine of History, XC (September 1994),
                            206.
                  
                     17Boruff, Women of Indiana, 11.
                  
                     18Logan Esarey, The Indiana Home (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1953).
                  
                     19John Modell, "Family and Fertility on the Indiana Frontier,
                            1820," American Quarterly, XXIII (December 19711, 615-34.
                  
                     20John Mack Faragher, Sugar Creek: Life on the 
                                    Illinois
                                    Prairie
                                
                      (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1986).
               
                    
                    
                  "SARAH ELKINS FEEDING CHICKENS, ELKINSVILLE," JULY 16, 1929, PHOTOGRAPH
                            BY FRANK M. HOHENBERGER:
                  Courtesy, The Lilly Library, Indiana university, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana
                been male. "The pioneer's world was essentially a man's
                    world," Buley asserted in 1950. But Buley at least occasionally integrated women into his
                    narrative, particularly in his discussion of the settlers' "self-sufficient
                    domestic economy," which, he admitted, "was left largely to the
                        women."21 A more recent study pays even less attention to women. In
                    his 1998 survey of Indiana from 1816 to 1850, Donald Carmony devotes a disappointing three of 632
                    pages to women.22 By narrowing questions about women's lives as
                    pioneers to the problem of "morality and abuses," Carmony ignores the work of
                    scholars who have enriched western and frontier history in the past two decades by examining the
                    diverse experiences of women.23
            
            
               
                  21R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                            1815-1840 (2 vols., 1950; reprint, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1964) 1, 202, 222, 315.
               
                  22Donald F. Carmony, Indiana, 1816-1850: The Pioneer
                        Era. Vol. 11: The History of Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1998), 77-79, 656n.
               
                  23For this literature see Joan Jensen and Darlis Miller, "Gentle
                        Tamers Revisited: New Approaches to the History of Women in the American West," Pacific Historical Review, XLIX (May 1980), 173-214; Glenda Riley, The Female Frontier: A Comparative View of Women on the 
                                Prairie
                             and the Plains (Lawrence, Kans., 1988); Elizabeth Jameson,
                        "Towards a Multicultural History of Women in the Western 
                            United States
                        ," Signs, XIII (Summer 1988), 761-91; Elizabeth Jameson
                        and Susan Armitage, eds., The Women's West (
                            Norman
                        , Okla., 1987); and Jameson and Armitage, eds., Writing the Range:
                            Race, Class, and Culture in the Women's West (
                            Norman
                        , Okla., 1997).
            
            
            Despite the absence of a social history of rural life in early Indiana, historians have begun to
                    study white Indiana women during the frontier and early statehood eras, and Turner has influenced
                    these historians of women on the frontier just as forcefully as he influenced historians of men.
                    These works raise questions about the significance of the frontier for women: did the frontier
                    liberate women from their dependent and inferior status, or did it reinforce gender inequality? Did
                    the demands of settlement and new community-building encourage greater gender equality? Did
                    settlement conditions mitigate, modify, or undermine the trend toward the separation of
                    men's and women's spheres evident in the East in the nineteenth century? Published
                    work on Indiana women in this period tends to address these questions indirectly. Like frontier
                    studies that look primarily at men, they focus on Turnerian notions of democracy, individualism, and
                    the ordering of society through the development of political, social, and economic institutions,
                    while they also highlight women's role in community- and institution-building. Although
                    voteless, women engaged in politics, founded charities, and operated boardinghouses. While it is
                    interesting and promising, this work is still in early stages.
            The life of Eliza Julia Flower offers an example of the frontier experience that challenges more
                    conventional views. In their biography of her, Janet Walker and Richard Burkhardt deem Flower
                    "no ordinary woman," but it is the ways in which she reflected
                    "ordinary" life that make her so compelling. Eliza's story offers
                    evidence of the gap between the ideology of female dependence and passivity and the practice of
                    female activism, particularly, perhaps, on the Indiana and midwestern frontier.24
            
            Eliza Andrews Flower was an English emigrant who married George Flower in 1817 in 
                        Vincennes
                    , while en route to southern 
                        Illinois
                    . With Morris Birkbeck, the Flowers founded the English Settlement in Edwards County. An
                    antislavery activist, George Flower was a close associate of Frances Wright and overseer (1825-1826)
                    at 
                        Nashoba
                    , her experimental community near 
                  Memphis, Tennessee
               . Daughter
                    of a minister, Eliza challenged gender conventions in her teens by disguising herself as a man to
                    gain admittance to the House of Commons. She married Flower nearly twenty years before he was
                    formally divorced from his first wife and had fourteen children with him. Both the Flowers also were
                    well acquainted with Robert Owen, his son Robert Dale Owen, and the reform community at 
                        New Harmony
                    , and they were central figures in the establishment and failure of Wright's
                    colony. When the Flowers lost their money and property 
                  
                     24Janet R. Walker and Richard W. Burkhardt, Eliza Julia
                                Flower: Letters of an English Gentlewoman—Life on the 
                                    Illinois
                                -Indiana Frontier, 1817-1861 (
                                Muncie
                            , Ind., 1991). For the life of a less privileged woman settler in central
                            Indiana see David L. Kimbrough, "Malinda Clark Slawson Pugh," Indiana Magazine of History, XCIV (March 1998), 29-38.
               
                     after 1837, Eliza became the principal breadwinner of the
                    family, running inns in Graysville, 
                  Illinois,
                            New Harmony
               , Indiana, and Mt.
                        Vernon, Indiana, while George gardened and wrote.
            The challenge in writing Eliza Julia Flower's biography, as it so often is with other women,
                    is in part a lack of sources. Flower's surviving manuscripts are few, although high in
                    quality. The twelve letters she wrote to a nephew between 1833 and 1837 reveal her as intelligent,
                    shrewd, and hard-working, and they richly detail life on the 
                        Illinois
                     prairie. Flower's correspondence expresses her love for her husband and
                    children and offers insight into child-rearing practices. It also illuminates the character of
                    economic life in 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana in the 1830s-1850s. Actively involved in the family's financial
                    and business affairs, Eliza served as "deputy husband" during George's
                    extended absences; "I am Master, Mistress, Servant—in short Factotum," she explained during one of his trips. Two letters in 1844 to a
                    creditor and two to her sons in 1858 and 1859 reflect her growing preoccupation with financial
                    matters after the couple fell on hard times, and they underscore the economic instability of the
                    middle period. Taken together they offer a view of women's experience in early Indiana that
                    challenges the conventional narrative.
            Until recently, the role of women in the antebellum Indiana economy has received little attention.
                    For example, while Esarey and Buley describe the way in which preparing wool for market, a
                    woman's task, provided either cash or barter, they do not examine women's place in
                    the economy of the frontier and settlement period. But in her 1997 dissertation Anita Ashendel
                    demonstrates that from the beginning of frontier settlement, women like Eliza Flower were part of
                    the merchant community. They developed economic ties with western travelers and eastern merchants,
                    dealt with currency and barter and unpaid bills, and routinely transacted business with men.
                    Although women's economic history was "largely submerged in the history of family
                    business and pioneer struggles to settle the Ohio Valley," Ashendel
                    explains, women's business activities shed important light on the history of Indiana.
                    Ashendel is interested not only in how women merchants supported themselves and their families, but
                    also in how they came to view the market, "which was then defined as male, but controlled
                    by no one," as an arena for self-definition and self-determination. To be sure, Ashendel
                    focuses on businesswomen. Had she looked at wage-earning women, she would have been less likely to
                    argue that the market revolution fostered personal independence even for women. But her study is a
                    significant advance over the work of the past.25
            
            
               
                  25Anita Ashendel, "She is the Man of the Concern: Entrepreneurial
                        Women in the Ohio Valley, 1790-1860" (Ph.D. dissertation, Purdue
                        University, 1997). Ashendel uses census data, newspapers, probate records, court orderbooks,
                        account books, credit reports, and county commissioner records as well as manuscript collections
                        and
            
            
            Another approach to integrating women into the history of early Indiana is to examine the many
                    utopian communities in the state before 1850. Challenging conventions (including gender) and
                    emphasizing equality among individuals regardless of rank or sex, utopians in theory offered women
                    freedom from established norms. Robert Owen's colony at 
                        New Harmony
                     is the most prominent example. Having experimented with reform at his New Lanark mills
                    in Great Britain, Owen purchased the Rappite community's buildings at Harmonie in Indiana
                    in 1824 to establish a "Community of Equality" according to the principles of
                    communitarian socialism. Focusing on gender ideology and gender relations, Carol Kolmerten
                    reexamines the utopian communities established by Owen and his followers in the East and Midwest.26 Kolmerten finds in the backgrounds, ideas, and actions of the residents some
                    potentially promising material for creating gender equality. All women were guaranteed the right to
                    vote in public meetings; women were encouraged to wear practical, unrestrictive clothing; boys and
                    girls were supposed to be taught the same subjects; and marriage was to be a partnership of equals.
            Yet by 1828, all the Owenite communities disbanded. Kolmerten indicates many reasons for this:
                    economic problems, the lack of cohesion among strangers, the splintering of the settlers, conflict
                    among reformers living at 
                        New Harmony
                    , and Owen's inability or refusal to provide leadership. More damaging,
                    Kolmerten argues, were conflicts among the residents over the promise of equality and its limited
                    application. Because the settlers were not required to renounce all their property before joining
                    the communities, some owned more than others; and the evidence of economic inequality clashed with
                    the principle of communal equality. Of even greater consequence, Kolmerten contends, was the
                    persistence of gender inequality: girls and boys did not receive the same education; the political
                    rights of women were limited; and women were regarded as not only different from but inferior to men
                    by nature. Moreover, married women—like men—were expected to perform work for
                    the community; but—unlike men—they were also to continue to assume all
                    responsibility for the care of their own families. The "Community of Equality"
                    actually 
                  contemporary literature in her analysis. For women wage earners see Ashendel,
                            "Fabricating Independence: Industrial Labor in Antebellum Indiana," 
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 Historical Review, XXIII (Fall 19971, 1-24; David Schob, Hired Hands and Plowboys: Farm Labor in the Midwest, 1815-60 (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1975), 191-208; and Robert V. Robinson and Ann-Marie Wahl,
                            "Industrial Employment and Wages of Women, Men, and Children in a Nineteenth
                            Century City: 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1850-1880," American Sociological Review, LV
                            (December 1990), 912-28. On women as school teachers in the antebellum period see Kathleen
                            A. Murphey, "Schooling, Teaching, and Change in Nineteenth-Century 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XCIV (March
                            19981, 1-28; Polly Welts Kaufman, Women Teachers on the Frontier (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1984).
                  
                     26 Carol Kolmerten, Women in Utopia: The Ideology of
                                Gender in the American Owenite Communities (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1990).
               
                     increased women's burden to produce for others. Female
                    discontent, Kolmerten contends, was a significant factor in the decision of settlers to leave the
                    communities and thus in the ultimate demise of 
                        New Harmony
                     and the other sites.
            Making effective use of women's private writings as well as men's accounts,
                    Kolmerten demonstrates the centrality of gender in the history of the communities and, by extension,
                    of all communal reform movements. The material she has gathered about communities in the 1820s and
                    in succeeding decades as a second generation experimented with utopias suggests how widely discussed
                    and contested nineteenth-century gender ideology—the view that the sexes were inherently
                    different and unequal and women's place was in the domestic sphere—was in
                    America. Kolmerten emphasizes the uniqueness of the Owenite communities' pledge of gender
                    equality in a period when the power of patriarchy was seemingly immutable (as the sad story of
                    Frances Wright, told in a separate chapter, is meant to demonstrate); but between 1820 and 1850
                    gender ideology was in flux outside as well as inside the Owenite communities. Greater consideration
                    of the tone and content of cultural engagement with gender ideology in those years throughout
                    Indiana—in and out of reform-minded communities—would not only widen our
                    perspective on women in the state but also situate the region in broader context.
            Women's involvement in politics and other more conventional reform organizations in the
                    antebellum period offers additional opportunities for assessing the effect of the frontier on gender
                    and women. In view of the attention the topic has received elsewhere, it is surprising that no
                    historian of Indiana has looked closely at women's role in the temperance movement in the
                        state.27 Nor have scholars examined women's role in party politics
                    in this era, although there is a growing literature on women in the political history of the
                    antebellum period.28 Women's involvement in antislavery activity in the
                    state 
                  
                     27For women and temperance before 1860 in Indiana see Emma Lou
                            Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 1850-1880. Vol. III: The History of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1992), 3 In; and Charles E. Canup, "Temperance Movements and
                            Legislation in Indiana," Indiana Magazine Of History, XVI (March
                            1920), 3-37. For women and temperance in other states in this period see Ruth M. Alexander,
                            'We Are Engaged as a Band of Sisters': Class and Domesticity in the
                            Washingtonian Temperance Movement, 1840-1850," Journal of American
                                History, Ixxv (December 1988), 763-85; Barbara Epstein, The Politics
                                of Domesticity: Women, Evangelism, and Temperance in Nineteenth Century America (
                                Middletown
                            , Conn., 1980); and Jack S. Blocker, Jr., American Temperance
                                Movements: Cycles of Reform (
                                Boston
                            , 1989).
                  
                     28For recent analyses of other states see Ronald J. Zboray and Mary
                            Saracino Zboray, "Whig Women, Politics, and Culture in the Campaign of 1840: Three
                            Perspectives from 
                                Massachusetts
                            ," Journal of the Early Republic, XVII (Summer 1997),
                            277-315; Elizabeth R. Varon, We Mean to be Counted: White Women &
                                Politics in Antebellum 
                                    Virginia
                                
                      (Chapel Hill, N.C., 1998); Nicole Etcheson,
                            "'Labouring for the Freedom of This Territory': Free-State 
                                Kansas
                             Women in the 1850s," 
                        
                                    Kansas
                                 History, XXI (Summer 1998), 68-87; Mary P. Ryan, Women in
                                Public: Between Banners and Ballots, 1825-1880 (
                                Baltimore
                            , Md., 1990); and Stephanie McCurry, Masters of Small Worlds:
                                Yeoman Households, Gender Relations, and the Political Culture of the Antebellum 
                                    South Carolina
                                 Low Country (
                                New York
                            , 1995).
               
                     has received some consideration.29 But by
                    far the greatest attention has been paid to the state's women's rights movement.
                    To some extent, the treatment of Indiana's female reformers hews closely to the narrative
                    established in Women of Indiana in 1941, which was dominated by Robert Dale
                        Owen.30 Yet some recent scholarship has begun to move beyond this approach
                    to provide more information on the movement's rank and file and local leaders.
            In her survey of Indiana history between 1850 and 1880, Emma Lou Thornbrough offered what has become
                    the standard treatment of the Indiana women's rights movement. Thornbrough described the
                    state constitutional convention of 1850-1851, in which Owen proposed a revised married
                    women's property rights law, prompting attacks by traditionalist opponents and attracting
                    support from women who publicly dissociated themselves from woman suffrage advocates. Consequently,
                    "a more militant group of women" organized the first woman's rights
                    association in the state and one of the earliest in the nation. At a 
                        Quaker
                     antislavery meeting in 
                  Greensboro,
                            Henry County
               , in January 1851, Amanda Way
                    proposed "that we call a Woman's Rights Convention, and that a committee be now
                    appointed to make the necessary arrangements." Calling upon "all the friends of
                    self government and human equality," organizers Way, Mary Thomas, Agnes Cook, and Owen met
                    in 
                        Richmond
                     on October 14, 1851, and established a Women's Rights Association (WRA).
                    Thornbrough's survey of the WRA's goals and purposes, founders, leaders, and
                    activities in the 1850s drew upon—and drew attention to—the
                    association's records at the Indiana Historical Society, the popular press, and legislative
                        reports.31
            
            
               
                  29Peggy Brase Seigel, "Moral Champions and Public Pathfinders:
                        Antebellum 
                            Quaker
                         Women in Eastcentral Indiana," 
                     
                                Quaker
                             History, IXXXI (Fall 1992), 87-106; Julie Roy Jeffrey, The
                            Great Silent Army of Abolitionism: Ordinary Women in the Antislavery Movement
                            (Chapel Hill, N.C., 1998).
               
                  30Most of those who have examined the movement date its public appearance
                        to Robert Dale Owen and the 1850-1851 state constitutional convention. Owen submitted a
                        resolution giving married women the right to acquire and possess property for their sole use and
                        disposal and to secure for married women all property that they owned before or acquired after
                        marriage. This resolution was defeated by one vote. Owen's modified resolution, which
                        guaranteed to women their real and personal property, passed by a margin of seven votes on the
                        first ballot but failed on the second ballot. Owen tried and failed twice more, although the
                        votes were close. Owen's effort to reform the state's married women's
                        property rights law was, of course, not unique. The trend toward such reform was well
                        established in other states by 1850. But none of the scholars who accord Owen the role of
                        women's movement founder have sought to place the Indiana effort in a national context.
                        On married women's property rights see Michael Grossberg, Governing the
                            Hearth: Law and the Family in Nineteenth-Century America (Chapel
                        Hill, N.C., 1985); Norma Basch, In the Eyes of the Law: Women, Marriage,
                            and Property in Nineteenth Century 
                                New York
                            
                   (
                            Ithaca
                        , N.Y., 1982); and Carole Shammas, "Re-assessing the Married
                        Women's Property Acts," Journal of Women's History,
                        VI (Spring 19941, 9-30.
               
                  31Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                    34-37.
            
            
            Her claim that the women's rights movement "had relatively little popular
                    support" and that, in contrast to the antislavery and temperance movements, "the
                    woman's rights movement had little impact upon Indiana politics" has not been
                        challenged.32 While Peggy Brase Seigel goes further than Thornbrough in
                    examining the principal leaders and members of the WRA, she, too, minimizes their impact and
                    significance. Seigel argues that the progression of women from antislavery organizations into
                    women's rights activism, so well established for the East, is harder to document for
                    Indiana. Seigel acknowledges that leaders such as Way participated in both antislavery work and
                    woman's rights meetings. But she also notes that the names of most of the leaders of the 
                        Henry County
                     Female Antislavery Society do not appear in records of the WRA. Seigel suggests that
                    Indiana was different from eastern states, citing "Indiana's isolation from
                    Eastern reformers … [and] Eastcentral Indiana's strong 
                        Quaker
                     agrarian subculture." WRA's ineffectiveness, Seigel therefore
                    implies, was due in part to its lack of integration into the antislavery reform network in
                        Indiana.33
            
            Similarly, 
                        Pat
                     Creech Scholten finds precedents in the 1840s for the WRA actions after 1850.
                    Nonetheless, in her detailed discussion of the association's promotion of a
                    women's property rights reform bill and a woman suffrage resolution during the 1859 Indiana
                    state assembly, she emphasizes the strongly negative response to the bill and petition. Relying
                    principally on newspaper coverage of the petition in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana Weekly State Journal, 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Daily Gazette, 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana Daily State Sentinel, and Indiana House Journal and Senate Journal, Scholten points out that the speeches made by Mary Birdsall, Agnes
                    Cook, and Mary Thomas were consistent with other women's rights texts of the 1850s, thus
                    establishing national context for the state story. But the negative response to the bill and
                    petition prompts Scholten to conclude, as Thornbrough did earlier, that there was scant support for
                    gender equality in Indiana in the 1850s.34 However, it could be argued that the
                    public political rejection of legal equality did not necessarily mean there was no social support
                    for gender equality in Indiana in the 1850s. Nor does the failure of the petition drive in 1859
                    prove that women did not engage in politics before the Civil War or that gender was not an engaging
                    political idea. Studies in other states reveal the fruitful-ness of examining how gender and
                    equality were understood in cultural as well as political terms in Indiana before the Civil War.
            The questions of how Indiana's gender politics were typical or unique warrant further
                    reflection and research. There is evidence 
                  
                            32
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     33 Seigel, "Moral Champions and Public Pathfinders,"
                            quotation on p. 87.
                  
                     34
                     
                                Pat
                             Creech Scholten, "A Public 'Jollification': The 1859
                            Women's Rights Petition before the Indiana Legislature," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXII (December 1976), 347-59.
               
                     that Indiana not only resembled other states but that the
                    WRA's leaders were well connected to activists in the East. Like the delegates at the first
                    women's rights convention at Seneca Falls, 
                        New York
                    , in 1848, who refused to endorse woman stage, the members of the WRA did not do so
                    until an 1853 meeting attended by Frances Gage. The group, which met annually during the 1850s in 
                        Richmond
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , used a 
                        Cincinnati
                     journal (Genius of Liberty) published by Elizabeth Aldrich as its
                    organ, further suggesting an eastern orientation and network connections with 
                        Ohio
                    . Notable, too, was the decision of Birdsall and Thomas to bring The
                    Lily, a 
                        New York
                     woman suffrage newspaper, to 
                        Richmond
                     (Birdsall bought it from the well-known Amelia Bloomer).
            But there is also evidence of the WRA's independence and uniqueness. Unlike eastern groups,
                    the WRA emphasized women's economic independence in its 1850s resolutions and platforms,
                    calling, for example, for laws to eliminate the "political, religious, legal, and pecuniary
                    [disabilities] to which women as a class are subjected and from which results so much misery,
                    degradation and crime." Echoing others who participated in the movement in the 1850s, the
                    Indiana group endorsed "the idea of the equality of the sexes" and sought to
                    banish "the idea of inferiority and superiority of the sexes." The WRA, however,
                    not only called for the abolition of discriminatory state laws, but also urged women
                    "everywhere … to fit [themselves] in early life for some useful and lucrative
                    employment" and called for equal pay for equal work.
            The Indiana women's rights group's concern with female independence is not unique
                    among women's rights activists before the Civil War, but it is unlike the agendas of other
                    states' meetings and conventions in the decade. Drawing together newspapers, including the
                    feminist The Lily and WRA's and other reform platforms from the 1850s,
                    Ashendel speculates that this unusual emphasis on wage earning reflects the volatility of economic
                    development in the Ohio Valley compared to that in more developed areas in the
                    East. Ashendel also links WRA's emphasis on independence and equality to the experiences of
                    leaders like Thomas (a physician) and Way (a schoolteacher turned minister) as
                    "entrepreneurs." "This emphasis on women's employment in
                    commercial enterprises," Ashendel concludes, "is fitting not only given the
                    individual backgrounds of local woman's rights advocates but also [given] the circumstances
                    that stimulated the growth of the Ohio Valley."35
                    Work along these lines extends our knowledge, moves beyond the conventional narrative of hardy but
                    quite Victorian heroines of the prairie, and facilitates integration of the Indiana story into a
                    national political, social, and economic context.
            
               
                  35Ashendel, "Entrepreneurial Women," 144.
            
            
            The terrain of women's history for the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries is more
                    varied than that of the earlier period. Yet, to mix the metaphor, there are still gaping holes in
                    our knowledge. We know most about the organizational and political activity of middle-class white
                    and black women. Indiana women, like those throughout the 
                        United States
                    , moved purposefully into the public sphere during the Gilded Age and Progressive Era in
                    numbers so great that they were called collectively "the woman movement," a term
                    that embraced apolitical women as well as suffragists. In Indiana, the all-female WCTU claimed more
                    than 5,000 members in 1900. When the Indiana State Federation of Clubs formed in 1906, it brought
                    together 185 clubs with a membership of 7,000 women. African American women, who were excluded from
                    white women's organizations, also were active. Between 1880 and 1920, more than 3,000 black
                    women participated in nearly 500 women's church and secular clubs in 
                        Indianapolis
                     alone. With some exceptions, much of this information about Hoosier women's
                    public engagement comes from biographical studies of a few leaders rather than from examination of
                    women's collective actions. Because of this "notable woman37
                    approach, scholars have neither placed women's involvement in the public sphere into a
                    broader context nor evaluated the extent to which it changes what is known about politics or society
                    in Indiana.
            Several biographical studies of prominent Indiana women help establish the outline if not the
                    substance of a history of women in the state after the Civil War. Robert Kriebel's
                    biography of Helen Gougar, for example, offers insight into women's relationship to
                    politics at the end of the nineteenth century. Born in Hillsdale, 
                        Michigan
                    , in 1843, Gougar followed her brother and three uncles to 
                        Lafayette
                     in 1860. There she began teaching. She was named principal of the public school in
                    1863, the same year in which she married 
                        Lafayette
                     attorney John Gougar. They had no children, but she gave up teaching after the spring
                    of 1864. Helen Gougar became involved in the temperance movement in the 1870s, serving as a speaker
                    for the cause. In November 1878, she began a weekly column in the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier; between 1881 and 1885 she owned and operated the weekly Our
                        Herald. Gougar claimed that she was converted to woman suffrage upon learning about the
                    death of a mother of four in 1878 from domestic violence. "I had been a member of a small
                    temperance society…," she confessed in an 1882 account. "I believed in
                    praying away the evil. But I became convinced that the best way was to vote it away!"
                    Gougar became, as she put it, "a fanatic on both subjects."36
            
            While Kriebel recapitulates 
                        Lafayette
                     newspaper reports of Gougar's comings and goings and her articles and
                    lectures, he offers 
                  
                     36Robert C. Kriebel, Where the Saints Have Trod: The Life
                                of Helen Gougar (West 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., 1985), 53.
               
                     no analysis of Helen Gougar's place in
                    history—her work for woman suffrage and temperance, her impact on Gilded Age politics
                    regionally and nationally, and her significance for women's history. What is apparent from
                    his biography of her, however, is Gougar's commitment to gender equality, her prickly
                    relationships with woman suffrage leaders, and her independence. Gougar's importance in
                    state politics and her national and financial success as an orator are also evident—
                    though only implicitly—in Kriebel's biography.
            Temperance and woman suffrage were strongly linked issues in Indiana in the 1880s and 1890s, which
                    helps explain the influence that Gougar—and by implication, other women—had in
                    Indiana politics. Gougar at first stumped for temperance and woman suffrage as a Republican; but
                    when the state and national GOP rejected her effort to include woman suffrage and temperance in the
                    party platform in 1888, Gougar switched her allegiance to the Prohibition party, which endorsed
                    woman suffrage. In the 1890s, Gougar persisted in supporting the Prohibition party, though other
                    suffragists preferred nonpartisanship. Gougar's "drift into third-party
                    politics" ended her friendship with the eminent Indiana feminist May Wright Sewall and
                    strained her relations with friends and allies like Susan B. Anthony. Representing the Indiana
                    Suffrage Association, Gougar also sued the 
                        Lafayette
                     election board, which denied her the right to vote in the November 1894 election. She
                    was unsuccessful, but her suit raised the issue and importance of woman suffrage in the state.37
            
            Gougar was only one of many Hoosier women active in politics in the Gilded Age. Zerelda Wallace,
                    Sewall, Ida Husted Harper, and Grace Julian Clarke were all well known, not just in Indiana
                    political circles but in national politics as well. While there have been several biographical
                    articles written on these women, they are limited in scope.38 How did these
                    women and the institutions they led affect 
                  
                     37On the woman suffrage movement in Indiana after 1860 see
                            Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 258-61, 284; Clifton J.
                            Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth,
                                1880-1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 19681, 498-502; Barbara A. Springer, "Ladylike Reformers: Indiana
                            Women and Progressive Reform, 1900-1920" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University,
                            1985); Janice Mane La Flamme, "The Strategy of Feminine Protest: A Rhetorical Study
                            of the Campaign for Woman's Rights in Indiana, 1881" (M.A. thesis, Indiana
                            University, 1968); L. Alene Sloan, "Some Aspects of the Woman Suffrage Movement in
                            Indiana" (Ph.D. dissertation, Ball State University, 1982); and Tatjana
                            Bürgener, "Angels May Be Devils: The Women's Suffrage Movement
                            in Indiana, 1851-1920" (M.A. thesis, Purdue University, 1991).
                  
                     38Susan Vogelgesang, "Zerelda Wallace: Indiana's
                            Conservative Radical," Traces, IV (Summer 1992); Clifton
                            Phillips, "Zerelda Wallace," in Edward T. James, ed., Notable
                                American Women 1607-1950, (3 vols., 
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1971), 111, 535-36; Jane Stephens, "May Wright Sewall: An
                            Indiana Reformer," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXVIII (December
                            1982), 273-95; Phillips, "May Wright Sewall" in Notable
                                American Women, 111, 269-71; Nancy Baker Jones, "A Forgotten Feminist: The
                            Early Writings of Ida Husted Harper, 1878-1894," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, LXXIII (June 1977), 79-101; Phillips, "Ida Husted
                            Harper," in Notable American Women, 11, 139-40; Phillips,
                            "Grace Julian Clarke," ibid., I, 341-42.
               
                     Indiana politics, broadly defined? What was the meaning of
                    gender in Indiana politics in this period? Only with answers to questions like these will historians
                    be able to integrate our state studies into the broader context of Gilded Age and Progressive Era
                    women's and political history. One useful approach to some of these issues appears in Wendy
                    Gamber's provocative analysis of newspaper coverage of and public reaction to a murder at
                    Cold Spring, a resort northwest of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1868. She links the diverse opinions both to differences between the major political
                    parties on the subject of women's economic place and to social tensions about changes in
                    gender roles and relations in the Gilded Age. A speculative foray into micro-history,
                    Gamber's effort to interrogate the primary sources on a sensational episode in Indiana
                    history from the perspective of gender and cultural studies warrants emulation.39
            
            The decades following the Civil War were significant not only for women's involvement in
                    formal politics but also for their extensive institution-building. Women throughout the state formed
                    groups with purposes ranging from cultural enrichment to religious reform to social welfare. Most
                    groups blended goals. For example, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Woman's Club, founded in 1875 and the oldest of its type in Indiana, was
                    designed "to form an organized center for the mental and social culture of its members and
                    for the improvement of domestic life," and at the same time it challenged prevalent
                    assumptions about the inferior intelligence of women. The same was true for African American
                    women's literary clubs. These organizations, formed ostensibly for individual
                    self-improvement, also protested against the denial of education to blacks of both sexes and
                    expressed a collective concern with racial survival and uplift.
            Other women's groups combined self-improvement and sociability with benevolence, fulfilling
                    a middle-class commitment to social efficacy as well as acting on the widely held belief that female
                    nature served a social purpose. Literary clubs often went beyond their stated purposes by engaging
                    in a variety of private charitable activities such as collecting and distributing food and clothing
                    to the poor. In 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the African American women's Bethel Literary Society and the Allen Chapel
                    Literary Society not only sponsored lectures and debates but also aided black migrants to the city
                    from the South and 
                  
                     39Wendy Gamber, "The Cold Spring Tragedy: Murder and the
                            Politics of Gender in Gilded Age 
                                Indianapolis
                            " (paper presented at Indiana Association of Historians meeting, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, March 1996, copy in author's possession). An important
                            recent treatment of women and politics in the late nineteenth century is Rebecca Edwards,
                                Angels in the Machinery: Gender in American Party Politics from the Civil
                                War to the Progressive Era (
                                New York
                            , 1997). See, too, Paula Baker, "The Domestication of Politics: Women
                            and American Political Society, 1780-1920," American Historical
                            Review, LXXXM (June 1984), 620-47; Michael McGerr, "Political Style and
                            Women's Power, 1830-1930," Journal of American History,
                            LXXVII (December 19901, 864-85; and Suzanne Lebsock, "Women and American Politics,
                            1880-1920," in Women, Politics, and Change, ed. Louise A. Tilly
                            and Patricia Gurin (
                                New York
                            , 1990), 35-62.
               
                     provided other forms of community service. Similarly, other
                    groups operated under the aegis of churches and synagogues. The Hebrew Ladies Benevolent Society,
                    part of the Jewish Welfare Federation of 
                        Indianapolis
                     (established in 1905), provided social services to poor Jewish immigrants, including
                    financial support, employment opportunities, health care, and assistance in adjusting to American
                    life. Secular women's organizations also offered social welfare and social services in a
                    period when tax-supported poor relief was limited at best.40
            
            Efforts by women's groups to expand and institutionalize private charity, raise public
                    health and safety standards, extend and improve the public school systems, and increase access to
                    medical care created durable institutions that transformed the quality of life for their fellow
                    citizens. At the same time, this work established networks of experienced women activists, enhancing
                    their power and influence.
            One example of women's political and social power in this period was the work of the
                    Women's Improvement Club of 
                        Indianapolis
                     (WIC). Organized as a literary circle in 1903, WIC became the group most responsible
                    for attacking tuberculosis among the 
                        Indianapolis
                     black population, which was excluded from the health care provided to white 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Independent of public funding or assistance, the WIC set up an outdoor tuberculosis
                    camp and offered a class in nursing to black women, who were excluded from the training programs
                    associated with hospitals. WIC also raised money for supplies, groceries, and nursing care. When the
                    WIC closed the camp in 1916 in response to both a lack of funds and a trend toward home care for
                    tubercular patients, its members sought other strategies to prevent and treat tuberculosis. The most
                    acute need was for long-term care for blacks in advanced stages of the disease, and WIC eventually
                    supplied such a facility. In the wake of these successes WIC turned its attention to poor children,
                    providing funds for summer vacations outside the city, and to blacks about to be evicted.41
            
            The organizational and institutional efforts of women in Gilded Age and Progressive Era Indiana were
                    extensive, diverse, and of profound consequence. In addition to the activities of the WIC, other
                    institutions organized and operated by women included orphanages, homes for aged women,
                    boardinghouses for single working women, and settlement houses. So well developed and
                    institutionalized was 
                  
                     40For African American women's organizations see Earline Rae
                            Ferguson, "A Community Mair: African-American Club Women's Work in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1895-1920" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1996); Hine, When the Truth is Told. For Jewish women see Judith E. Endelman, The Jewish Community of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                : 1849 to the Present (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1984).
                  
                     41Earline Rae Ferguson, "The Woman's Improvement
                            Club of 
                                Indianapolis
                            : Black Women Pioneers in Tuberculosis Work, 1903-1938," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIV (September 19881, 237-61.
               
                    
                    
                  ROSE HUMMONS, ONE
                            OF
                            THE WOMEN'S IMPROVEMENT
                                CLUB
                            OF INDIANAPOLIS
                            IN 1903, WAS
                            A
                            LEADER
                            IN INDIANAPOLIS'S AFRICAN
                                AMERICAN
                            COMMUNITY
                            IN
                            THE
                            EARLY
                            DECADES
                            OF
                            THE
                            TWENTIETH
                            CENTURY
                  
                  Courtesy, Indiana Historical Society
                the "woman movement" in 
                        Indianapolis
                     that its white members established their own building and organized a formal federation
                    in the 1890s. Begun in 1892 with 49 groups, including literary societies, charities, and missionary
                    and church associations, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Council of Women met monthly to address issues related to women and children, such as
                    women's suffrage and school matters; investigated conditions for women prisoners in jails
                    and the presence of children in taverns; lobbied for municipal legislation regarding public health
                    and housing; and campaigned for the appointment of women to local commissions and government
                    offices.
            Ruth Crocker's Social Work and Social Order studies settlement houses in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Gary from 1889 until 1930, with separate chapters on each of seven Hoosier
                    settlements (Christamore, Foreign House, and Flanner House in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Campbell
                     Friendship House, Neighborhood House, Gary-Aldering Settlement  House and Stewart House in Gary). Her organization allows Crocker to
                    highlight issues of race and ethnicity, since the settlements were segregated. Crocker argues that
                    the seven Indiana settlement houses were typical of "second-tier" settlements, in
                    contrast to more prominent ones like Hull House in 
                        Chicago
                     and Henry Street Settlement in 
                        New York
                    . Religion was more important in the Indiana settlements, which were often sponsored by
                    churches, than in the more secular Hull House; "they were less interested in social
                    science," explains Crocker, "than in saving souls."42
            
            The Indiana settlements were also different from Hull House in their relations with immigrants;
                    Indiana settlement workers were Americanizers rather than cultural pluralists. Crocker contends that
                    Indiana settlements may have begun as communities of women— like Hull
                    House—but that they did not have long-term women residents and soon came under male
                    control. Too, settlement workers advanced conventional middle-class ideas about gender for
                    working-class adoption while they focused on issues of health and welfare for working-class women
                    and children. Crocker notes conflict, both among residents and between them and their constituents,
                    over married women's paid employment, with some residents endorsing jobs over handouts for
                    married women. The Indiana settlements, Crocker concludes, "were at once more conservative
                    and more practical than the more famous settlements." Unlike other studies of settlements,
                    Crocker's finds no link between organized labor and Hoosier settlements. Instead she finds
                    increasing involvement by businesses in finding and controlling the houses. As opposed to those who
                    argue that settlement houses narrowed their larger, grander, more radical original intents and
                    purposes as time went on, Crocker shows that at least in Indiana the settlements were rather
                    conservative from the outset. In this respect, Crocker's analysis dovetails with the view
                    of Indiana and Hoosiers as nonradical, cautious, and less than progressive.
            American women enjoyed a new measure of individuality and autonomy between 1870 and 1920, thanks in
                    large part to greater educational and occupational opportunities. But these changes also heightened
                    the tension between women's self-fulfillment and their duty to family. Mina
                    Carson's study of Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                     is unusual in its effort to situate one Indiana woman within this larger context of
                    middle-class female experience at the turn of the century. Relying almost exclusively on 
                        Hamilton
                    's diaries, Carson is particularly interested in the emotional and
                    psychological dimensions of that experience. Agnes grew up with her cousins, the more prominent
                    Alice (expert in industrial toxicology) and Edith (popularizer of ancient culture), in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . An adherent of Charles Kingsley's Christian socialism, Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                     believed in social salvation through individual 
                  
                     42Ruth Hutchinson Crocker, Social Work and Social Order:
                                The Settlement Movement in Two Industrial Cities, 1889-1930 (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1992).
               
                     regeneration, rather than working-class organization and
                    collective action. Earnestly she put her faith into practice, first at 
                        Nebraska
                     Mission, a nondenominational social center in a poor section of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     where she taught Sunday school and managed a tea-and-lunch service for working women.
                    In 1894, 
                        Hamilton
                     led the founding of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     YWCA and served as its first president. In the late 1890s, she moved to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , where she served as director of a Presbyterian settlement; she never returned to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Carson concludes that for Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                     the Christian ideals of duty and service "constituted a confused and confusing
                    mandate of propitiatory selflessness achieved by scrupulous attention to self. For one who could not
                    allow herself the unleashed ambition of single-minded professional or creative endeavor, the
                    settlement substituted a real-world battleground for the rigged and treacherous battlefield of her
                    own soul."
            Carson's approach is intensely personal; only by implication can her analysis of Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                    's individual psychology apply more generally to other women involved in
                    charity and welfare work in Indiana. But Carson's attention to the religious faith and
                    activism of middle-class women bears notice. Katherine Tinsley's 1995 doctoral dissertation
                    takes a wider sample. Mining a rich vein of correspondence, journals, and diaries from some thirty
                    midwestern families (including many in Indiana), Tinsley renders a sensitive portrait of
                    middle-class women's options, choices, and experiences between 1870 and 1920. Tinsley finds
                    evidence of marked changes during this period; correspondence between engaged couples, for example,
                    reveals the growing importance of emotional relationships and the development of true companionship.
                    Parents also paid increasing attention to preparing daughters for economic self-sufficiency. Yet
                    marriage and career remained mutually exclusive concepts for most women. And strong emotional ties
                    among family members could as easily immobilize women as buffer the trauma of altered material
                    relationships and expectations.43
            
            The legal status of women in Indiana remains another important and understudied subject. Just as
                    politics entailed more than voting or running for office, the law affected women in more ways than
                    by denying them the vote; women's legal status also is found, for example, in the provision
                    of property rights and the settlement of divorce cases. Indiana acquired a reputation for quick and
                    easy divorces in the nineteenth century, instanced by William Dean How-ells' novel, A Hazard of New Fortunes.
               44 Although the loosening of 
                  
                     43Mina J. Carson, "Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                             of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            : The Education of a Christian Settlement Worker," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, LXXX (March 1984), 1-34; Katherine Ann Tinsley,
                            "Continuing Ties: Relations between Middle Class Parents and Their Children in
                            Midwestern Families, 1870-1920" (W.D. dissertation, University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , 1995).
                  
                     44William Dean Howells, A Hazard of New Fortunes
                            (1889; reprint 
                                New York
                            , 1983).
               
                     restrictions on divorce in some ways accompanied a loosening of
                    restrictions on women, a liberal divorce code did not necessarily mean female independence or
                    autonomy. In her study of the shift in the 
                        United States
                     from a virtually divorceless society to one that provided divorces in the civil courts
                    for a variety of grounds, Norma Basch examines how divorce was implemented in the county courts and
                    what role was played by women in the divorce process. Situating Indiana at the liberal end of the
                    divorce spectrum, Basch explains that the state provided broad statutory grounds for divorce from
                    the beginning of statehood, including the most liberal of provisions, the so-called omnibus clause
                    that gave judges discretion in granting decrees in situations that did not fit the statute. Basch
                    argues that divorce was not so much an appealing recourse for most women in this period as a
                    response to higher rates of male desertion. "As men created de facto divorces,"
                    Basch explains, "women sought out legal ones." There were only three economic
                    remedies available to female plaintiffs: provisions for alimony; the wife's right to recoup
                    her property and earnings from her husband; and a simple decree dissolving marriage. In 1852,
                    Indiana limited alimony to a one-time, lump-sum settlement to be paid out at most over a few years.
                    While the concept of separate marital property was well entrenched in Anglo-American legal
                    tradition, it was not the same as joint-ownership of a couple's assets; a woman could
                    expect to receive what she brought to the marriage as well as her own earnings but not half of all
                    the couple owned. So, in practice, the principal form of relief that divorce afforded Indiana women
                    in the nineteenth century was to provide them with single status and the right to remarry.
                    "Although these were not inconsequential gains," admits Basch, "they do
                    not fully support the view that the presence of women in court as plaintiffs was a symptom of their
                    autonomy, particularly since they were often contending with abandonment."45 The status and experience of women at law, Basch's work demonstrates, offer rich
                    subjects for closer examination of gender roles and relations, marriage and the family, conflict and
                    consensus in community standards, and change and continuity over time.
            More attention has been paid to dispensers than to recipients of charity and social welfare, though
                    by emphasizing the voluntary character of working people's use of the settlements, Crocker
                    challenges the view that settlement houses were simply institutions of social control. Several other
                    Indiana historians have effectively pursued the same approach. Joan E. Marshall has studied the
                    history of social welfare in 
                        Lafayette
                     in the Gilded Age and Progressive Era, drawing 
                  
                     45Norma Basch, "Relief in the Premises: Divorce as a
                            Woman's Remedy in 
                                New York
                             and Indiana, 1815-1870," Law and History Review,
                            VIII (Spring 1990), 1-24; Basch, Framing American Divorce: From the
                                Revolutionary Generation to the Victorians (Berkeley, Calif., 1999).
               
                     on evidence from city records, newspapers, and organizational
                    materials. Sensitive to the gap between intent and effect, between goals and outcomes, Marshall
                    illuminates not just the important role of middle-class women in the institutionalization of social
                    welfare but the experience of working-class and poor women as objects of reform and as clients of
                    the system. Similarly, Ferguson's work on African American women's organizations
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the same period enriches and complicates our knowledge of Indiana women's
                    history. Building on Crocker's analysis of Flanner House, Ferguson highlights the diversity
                    among middle-class and working-class African American women. Ferguson emphasizes "the
                    interconnectedness of race and class and an overarching sisterhood" and suggests that black
                    clubwomen tended to discriminate less than their white counterparts between the
                    "worthy" and the "undeserving" poor. Ferguson attributes the
                    acceptance of all members of the African American community as "worthy" to the
                    emphasis in black churches on individual sanctity. It may also reflect the shared consequences of
                    racism and its economic hardships.46
            
            Like their antebellum counterparts, Hoosier working women in the period between the Civil War and
                    World War I are rarely studied. Following the middle-class focus of Women of
                    Indiana, historians have given some attention to educated women and their prospects as nurses,
                    teachers, writers, and artists.47 Fewer, however, have studied women in service
                    and manufacturing jobs. These women do not go completely unnoticed, but there is a tendency to
                    slight them.48 For their part, labor historians have emphasized working-class
                    men and 
                  
                     46Joan E. Marshall, "The Charity Organization Society and
                            Poor Relief for the Able-Bodied Unemployed: 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, 1905-1910," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XCIII (September 1997), 217-43; Marshall, "Parents and Foster Parents, Shapers of
                            Progressive Era Child Saving Practices: A Case Study, 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County, Indiana, 1887-1916," ibid., XC (June 19941,
                            147-73; Ferguson, "A Community Affair"; Earline Rae Ferguson,
                            "Sisterhood and Community: The Sisters of Charity and African American
                            Women's Health Care in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1876-1920," in Murphy and Venet, Midwestern Women,
                            172. See also Thomas W. Cowger, "Custodians of Social Justice: The 
                                Indianapolis
                             Asylum for Friendless Colored Children, 1870-1922," Indiana Magazine of History, WMVIII (June 19921, 93-110; Alida Joyce Moonen,
                            "The Missing Half: The Experience of Women in the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Athenaeum Turnverein Women's Auxiliary" (Ph.D. dissertation, 
                                Ohio
                             State University, 1993).
                  
                     47 See for example, Peggy Brase Seigel, "She Went to War:
                            Indiana Women Nurses in the Civil War," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, LXXXVI (March 19901, 1-27; Murphey, "Schooling, Teaching, and
                            Change"; M. Georgia Costin, Priceless Spirit: A History of the Sisters
                                of the Holy Cross, 1841-1893 (
                                South Bend
                            , Ind., 1994); H. Tracy Schier, "History of Higher Education for Women
                            at Saint Mary-of-the-Woods, 1840-1980" (Ph.D. dissertation, 
                                Boston
                             College, 1987); Earline Rae Ferguson, "Lillian Thomas Fox: 
                                Indianapolis
                             Journalist and Community Leader," in Indiana's
                                African-American Heritage, 139-50; Ray Boomhower, The Country
                                Contributor: The Life and Times of Juliet V. Strauss (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1998); Betty Clayton Harris, The Role of Women on Indiana
                                Newspapers, and in Other Media, 187G1976 (
                                Muncie
                            , Ind., 1977); and Judith Reick Long, Gene Stratton-Porter:
                                Novelist and Naturalist (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1990).
                  
                     48For information on working women in the period 1870-1920 see
                            Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 440; and Phillips, Indiana in Transition, 327-331.
               
                     overlooked working-class women, and women's
                    involvement in the labor movement similarly has gone unexamined. With the exception of studies of
                    African American women in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Evansville
                     and a few analyses of the working-class family economy in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , there is no historical writing that focuses on Indiana's working-class women
                    in a critical period that witnessed the expansion not just of industry but also of service-sector
                    jobs, a traditional mainstay of women.49
            
            A recent study of labor and politics in 
                        Evansville
                     and New 
                        Albany
                     in the nineteenth century offers significant new information about how the two major
                    parties mobilized working-class voters and neatly illustrates this problematic area of Indiana
                    women's history. Lawrence Lipin recognizes the importance of women's wage earning
                    in these two industrial towns. In his discussion of an 1877 strike by cotton mill workers, most of
                    whom were female, Lipin emphasizes the extent to which 
                        Evansville
                     Democrats used the strike to curry favor with working-class voters. But Lipin ignores
                    women's inability to vote in this period. Although he emphasizes a broad realm for
                    politics, arguing that it concerns not just the ballot box but also meetings, conventions, rallies,
                    and informal discussions within and without the workplace—places where women clearly
                    could have and must have participated and played important roles, Lipin relies on a notion of
                    "worker" that excludes women. "It was this heavy involvement of ordinary
                    men—of workers—as much as the corruption of the urban
                    'machine' with which elites were so concerned in the Gilded Age," he
                    contends in one typical statement that makes all workers male.50 Lipin thus
                    subverts his own intentions by erasing women from his study of working-class life and politics in
                    southern Indiana before the twentieth century.
            While the politics of gender after 1900 has received some attention, the subject demands more. A
                    truism that emerges from studies of Indiana state politics in this period is that progressivism
                    arrived in Indiana late (and, some would say, left too soon). In accounting for the limited impact
                    of the Progressive movement in the state, scholars point to factors such as Hoosiers'
                    resistance to change; the 
                  
                     49On African American women see Hine, When the Truth is
                                Told; Emma Lou Thornbrough, The Negro in Indiana before 1900: A Study
                                of a Minority (1957; reprint, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1993), 348-49, 359, 361, 393-94; Ferguson, "A Community
                            Affair"; and Darrel Bigham, We Ask Only a Fair Trial: A History of the
                                Black Community of 
                                    Evansville
                                , Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1987). For working-class families in 
                                Indianapolis
                             see Robert V. Robinson, "Making Ends Meet: Wives and Children in the
                            Family Economy of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1860-1920," Indiana Magazine of History, XCII
                            (September 1996), 197-234. See also Richard Lindstrom, "'It would break my
                            heart to see you behind a counter!' Business and Reform at L. S. Ayres &
                            Company in the Early Twentieth Century," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XCIII (December 1997), 345-76.
                  
                     50 Lawrence M. Lipin. Producers. Proletarians. and
                                Politicians: Workers and Party Politics in 
                                    Evansville
                                 and New 
                                    Albany
                                , Indiana: 1850-1887 (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1994), 252.
               
                    
                    
                  WOMEN
                            CLEANING
                            AND
                            PREPARING
                            CHICKENS
                            FOR
                            THE COLUMBIA CONSERVE COMPANY, 1930s Courtesy, The Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana
               
                     even balance between the two major parties, which made them
                    cautious and unwilling to advocate innovation and change; the slow and unwieldy state constitution
                    amendment process; and the persistent opposition of business to regulation and reform. It is not
                    clear whether these circumstances posed obstacles to women's political activism and the
                    achievement of reforms that were advanced by women in other states—such as regulation of
                    child and female labor, temperance, and woman suffrage—or whether women themselves helped
                    create the conditions that stymied reform. Barbara Springer's work on the woman movement in
                    the state criticizes middle-class reformers as too meek. "Except for the most aggressive
                    leaders," Springer argues, "most Hoosier women remained timid and reverted to
                    'ladylike' methods of political persuasion—petitions and memorials.
                    They blanched at the idea of speaking in public, and worse yet, of becoming 'career
                        women.'"51 Hoosier women may have been more conservative
                    than women in other states, but to some extent the contention that women in Indiana failed to
                    achieve as much as their counterparts elsewhere is valid only because scholars have made legislators
                    their principal focus.52 This approach overlooks the efforts and achievements of
                    interest groups that emerged as a dominant force in American politics during the Progressive Era. In
                    this realm women shone, 'even' in Indiana, a recognition that has been the basis
                    for studies of important Indiana progressives like Albion Fellows Bacon, who held no elective office
                    but was responsible for Indiana's public housing law, among other accomplishments.53 Too great a reliance on electoral politics not only obscures various other
                    figures in the state's woman movement but it also minimizes the Progressive-style efforts
                    of those, like African Americans and labor unionists, who were not central players in state
                    government. As the work of Springer, Robert Barrows, Ferguson, and Darlene Clark Hine indicates,
                    women's activism in the Progressive Era ought to be made a point of departure for, rather
                    than a footnote to, the political history of Indiana from the turn of the twentieth century through
                    World War I.
            The eighty years following passage of the Nineteenth Amendment are both among the least studied and
                    the most promising in 
                  
                     51Springer, "Ladylike Reformers," 30.
                  
                     52Tee, for example, Philip R. VanderMeer, The Hoosier
                                Politician: Officeholding and Political Culture in Indiana, 1896-1920 (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1985).
                  
                     53Robert Barrows, "'The Homes of Indiana':
                            Albion Fellows Bacon and Housing Reform Legislation, 1907-1917," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXI (December 1985), 309-50; Mary Boewe,
                            "Annie & Albion: Reformers of Riverville," Traces, VII (Winter 1995), 4-11. See, too, Robert Barrows,
                            "'Building Up the State': Women Reformers and Child Welfare Work
                            in Indiana during World War I," Mid-America, LXXVII (Fall 19951,
                            267-83. Barrows's biography of Bacon is forthcoming from Indiana University Press.
                            For another view of women and Progressivism in Indiana see Dwight W. Hoover, "Daisy
                            Douglas 
                                Barr
                            : From 
                                Quaker
                             to Klan 'Kluckeress,'" Indiana Magazine
                                of History, LXXXVII (June 1991), 171-95.
               
                     Indiana women's history. James H. Madison's
                        The Indiana Way and his volume on Indiana between 1920 and 1945 highlight
                    themes worthy of further examination.54 Overall, however, scholarship on the
                    history of women since 1920 (and especially since mid-century) is thin, despite the considerable
                    changes that have occurred in women's lives and the writing of women's history in
                    this period. With the recent acquisition of several large collections of primary sources by the
                    Indiana Historical Society, prospects for new and informative works are brighter.55 The larger national narrative of women in the 
                        United States
                     in this century is still being written, and the integration of Indiana women into it is
                    overdue.
            The Nineteenth Amendment had at least the potential to change the way that women behaved politically.
                    As Boruff put it in 1941, "For years women … worked side by side for the
                    suffrage amendment with no thought of party affiliation; then suddenly the number of voters was
                    doubled … and women were no longer suffragists but Republicans or Democrats."56 The two major parties recognized this potential and sought, with varying
                    degrees of energy and effectiveness, to recruit women as voters and as politicians. Both parties in
                    the 1920s created seats for women on their national committees and integrated women into the state
                    apparatus by requiring that vice chairmen be the opposite sex of chairmen in precinct, county,
                    district, and state organizations. Women began running for—and winning—local
                    and state office almost immediately after 1920. The first woman elected to Congress from Indiana was 
                        Virginia
                     Jenckes, who served from 1932 to 1938.57
            
            Yet researchers need not limit themselves to an examination of women's relationship to the
                    two major parties. Women were mobilized not just by parties but also by a variety of voluntary
                    organizations, one of the most notable being the League of Women Voters, which after 1920 sought to
                    educate the enlarged electorate and to promote public interest legislation.58
                    Another fruitful approach would 
                  
                     54James H. Madison, The Indiana Way: A State History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1986); 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana through Tradition and Change: A History of the Hoosier
                                State and Its People, 1920-1945 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1982).
                  
                     55Organizations whose collections have been recently accessioned by
                            the Indiana Historical Society include the following: National Council of Negro
                            Women— 
                                Indianapolis
                             Section; Indiana National Organization of Women (NOW); Indiana Women's
                            Political Caucus; 
                                Indianapolis
                             Woman's Club; 
                                Indianapolis
                             Archdiocesan Council of Catholic Women; Grand Body of the Sisters of Charity;
                            Indiana Association of Intercollegiate Athletics for Women; Governor's Commission
                            on the Status of Women in Indiana; League of Women Voters of Indiana; and League of Women
                            Voters of 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     56Boruff, Women of Indiana, 36.
                  
                     57Edward K. Spann, "Indiana's First Woman in
                            Congress: Virginia E. Jenckes and the New Deal, 1932-1938," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XCII (September 1996), 235-53. On women and politics in the
                            1920s see Kristi Andersen, After Suffrage: Women in Partisan and Electoral
                                Politics before the New Deal (
                                Chicago
                            , 1996).
                  
                     58The National American Woman Suffrage Association transformed itself
                            into the National League of Women Voters in 1920. The records of the state and
               
                     be to examine women's participation as reformers and
                    activists in the post-World War I decades. The persistence of interest group politics and the
                    increasingly democratic definition of citizenship helped to create, maintain, and enlarge a space
                    for women in the public sphere. All the twentieth-century reform movements in Indiana (as elsewhere)
                    included women, but this history has yet to be written. We need state-level studies of women in the
                    anticommunist movement after World War II, the urban reform movement of the 1950s and 1960s, the
                    labor movement, the civil rights movement, the antibusing movement of the 1960s and 1970s, the
                    environmental movement, the feminist and the antifeminist movements, and the farmers'
                    protest movement of the 1980s. Many Hoosier women also played prominent roles in national politics,
                    national reformism, and national social movements since 1920; but their work has not yet been
                        analyzed.59
            
            One monograph on women in Indiana since 1920 illustrates some of the possibilities for innovative
                    research. Kathleen Blee's Women of the Hun integrates gender into an
                    analysis of the Ku Klux Klan, extends our understanding of the Klan in the twenties, and tells much
                    about Indiana women after 1920. Blee argues that by looking only at highly visible actions of
                    Klansmen, like electoral corruption, night-riding, and gang terrorism, "we might conclude
                    that in many places the Klan's attack on Catholics, Jews, blacks, and other minorities was
                    relatively ineffectual. When we include the less public actions of Klanswomen—the
                    'poison squads' that spread rumor and slander or organized consumer
                    boycotts—the picture changes." "Klanswomen," Blee explains,
                    "acted in different ways that complemented those of Klansmen, making the Klan's
                    influence both more extensive and more deadly than the actions of Klansmen alone would 
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             organizations at the Indiana Historical Society are extensive—there
                            are 91 manuscript boxes in the League of Women Voters of Indiana collection and 28
                            manuscript boxes in the 
                                Indianapolis
                             collection. See Louise M. Young, In the Public Interest: The
                                League of Women Voters, 1920-1970 (
                                New York
                            , 1989); Greenough, League of Women Voters of Indiana; and
                            Susan Ware, "American Women in the 1950s: Nonpartisan Politics and Women's
                            Politicization," in Tilly and Gurin, Women, Politics, and Change,
                            281-99.
                  
                     59On women's social and political activism in Indiana after
                            1930 see James H. Madison, "Flossie Bailey: 'What a
                            Woman!"' Traces, XII (Winter 2000), 23-27; Evelyn
                            Baldwin, "Civic Housekeeping 50s Style: Women's Citizen's
                            Committee, Gary, Indiana" (M.A. thesis, American Studies, Purdue University, 1992);
                            Hine, When the Truth is Told, 69-78; Ray Boomhower, "Mattie
                            Coney," Traces, VIII (Fall 19961, 57-61; Marian Kleinsasser
                            Towne, That All May Be One: Centennial History of Church Women United in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1898-1998 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1998); James B. Lane, "Women and the Work Place: The Calumet District
                            Women's Caucus" (October 1991, paper in author's possession);
                            Nancy Gabin, "Gender and Power in Rural America: Women Factory Workers and Labor
                            Activism in Indiana since 1880" (paper delivered at Berkshire Conference on the
                            History of Women, Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, 
                                New York
                            , June 12, 1993); Gabin, "Overview: Women," in The Encyclopedia of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , ed. David J. Bodenhamer and Robert G. Barrows (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 19941, 218-28; and Linda Gail Seward, "The Equal Rights
                            Amendment in Indiana: A Study of Ideas and Arguments" (Ph.D. dissertation, Purdue
                            University, 1991).
               
                    
                    
                  "QUILTING
                            PARTY
                            AT GOSPORT," FEBRUARY
                            3,1928, PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK M. HOHENBERGER
                  
                suggest."60 Though women do not always act or participate in
                    ways different from those of men, Blee's emphasis on the extent to which attention to women
                    requires a revision of political and social history should be a constant reminder to those writing
                    the history of women in Indiana.
            Some recent work on rural women suggests another means both to uncover the history of Hoosier women
                    in this century and to incorporate Indiana into a broader national and intellectual context. In the
                    past most women's historians have either focused on cities or overlooked midwestern states,
                    while rural sociologists for their part have been blind to the significance of women's role
                    in maintaining farms and sustaining communities. But several scholars within the last ten years have
                    compared the state's rural and urban women over time. Much of this work finds that, in
                    contrast to the better-studied lives of urban middle-class women, the rural female experience in
                    this century challenges the notion of separate spheres for women and men. So blurry and permeable
                    have the boundaries been between home and work in rural Indiana, between the so-called private and
                        
                  
                     60Kathleen Blee, Women of the Klan: Racism and Gender in
                                the 1920s (Berkeley, Calif., 1991), 2-3.
               
                     public spheres, that they nearly disappear, both for scholars
                    and their subjects.61
            
            Steinson has analyzed transcripts of interviews with nearly 300 Indiana Extension Homemaker club
                    members. She looks at the impact of World War II on two groups of women: the agents of
                    Indiana's agricultural extension programs and the members of the homemakers'
                    extension clubs. She challenges scholars who claim that extension agents sought to mold farmwomen
                    into efficient, scientifically knowledgeable homemakers and consumers by showing that home extension
                    agents in Indiana had to respond and adapt to local women's interests if they wanted an
                    audience for their programs. Steinson argues that World War II in many ways empowered rural women by
                    requiring them to take on new responsibilities—to act like family doctors or to do
                    appliance repair or to run tractors—and by encouraging them to demand home extension
                    education for these new responsibilities.
            While Steinson concludes that extension programs in Indiana accommodated the interests of rural women
                    in a society at war, she also notes that the war challenged the basic premise of the land grant
                    university home demonstration programs, i.e., that the preferred role for rural women was as
                    efficient, scientifically informed full-time homemakers. Indiana agents, like their counterparts in
                    other states, thus lagged behind their constituents in appreciating the already blurry boundaries
                    between men's and women's work in the rural family economy. The war, she
                    demonstrates, also offered rural women a newly enhanced civic role. While Steinson does not portray
                    rural women as the vanguard of a modern trend toward gender equality, she argues convincingly that
                    urban women were not necessarily the first to push against the barriers of separate
                    spheres' gender ideology. She also serves notice that attention to the politicization of
                    women after 1920 must consider rural women, whose opportunities for political participation and
                    whose identity as citizens differed from those of urban women.62
            
            
               
                  61See, for example, Kathy Miller, "Rural Women's Work
                        and Community Building in Indiana from 1900 to 1980" (Ph.D. dissertation, Purdue
                        University, 1997); Nancy Gabin, "Labor and Gender Relations in the Indiana Food
                        Processing Industries: Women in Tomato Canning Factories, 1920-1950" (paper delivered
                        at North American Labor History Conference, 
                            Wayne
                         State University, 
                     Detroit, Michigan
                  , October 17,1992); and Julia
                        Wilder, "Female Farmer Talk Show: Farm Wives in Central Indiana Who Dare to Call
                        Themselves Farmers" (unpublished manuscript in author's possession based on
                        interviews with twenty-four women).
               
                  62Barbara Steinson, "Home Extension on the Home Front Rural
                        Indiana Women During World War II" (paper delivered at Organization of American
                        Historians meeting, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, April 4,1998). The Indiana homemakers interviews are also available in
                        six volumes edited by Eleanor Arnold and originally published by the Indiana Extension
                        Homemakers Association between 1983 and 1990; they are Feeding Our Families
                        (1983), Party Lines, Pumps, and Privies (1984), Buggies and Bad
                            Times (1985), Girlhood Days (1987), Going to Club
                        (19881, and Living Rich Lives (1990). See also Barbara J. Steinson, "Memories of Hoosier Homemakers: A Review
            
            
            One of the most important economic trends since 1945 is the growing significance of female labor
                    force participation. For a variety of reasons, paid employment has become increasingly a permanent
                    part of women's lives. Female employment in Indiana mirrors patterns throughout the 
                        United States
                    . But a few distinctive features especially warrant consideration in the history of
                    Hoosier women in this century. In contrast to 
                  Ohio, Michigan
               , and 
                        Illinois
                    , the majority of industrial workers in Indiana in the last one hundred years (except
                    for those in the northwest corner of the state) were native-born Americans recruited from the farm
                    populations of Indiana and nearby states and from the developing towns and cities. Women played an
                    important part in this industrial workforce. Although personal and domestic service employed the
                    largest group of women in the state until the mid-twentieth century, manufacturing was the second
                    most important occupational category for them. In 1900 women employed in manufacturing in Indiana
                    represented 25 percent of the female labor force and 15.5 percent of all workers engaged in
                    manufacturing. By 1940, they represented 18 percent of those employed in manufacturing in the state.
                    At the peak of World War 11, in the fall of 1943, more than one-third of all factory workers in the
                    state were women. Although women lost defense jobs after the war, they soon regained their
                    importance in the state's manufacturing sector when electrical goods manufacturing and the
                    related electronics industry, both of which employed women, expanded in Indiana in the postwar
                    period. The prominence of agriculture, the steel industry in the northwestern part of the state, and
                    limestone quarrying and coal mining in the southern section have long given the Indiana economy a
                    distinctly masculine image, so that the less visible women factory workers have attracted little
                    attention from historians interested in the labor and economic history of Indiana.
            What makes Indiana unusual—and therefore intriguing—among midwestern states is
                    that women factory workers failed to capture the attention of contemporary reformers and labor
                    activists. In contrast 
                  Essay," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVI (June 19901,
                            197-222. For extension home-makers' clubs in other states see Kathleen Babbitt,
                            "The Productive Farm Woman and the Extension Home Economist in 
                                New York
                             State, 1920-1940," Agricultural History, LXVII
                            (Spring 1993), 83-101; Joan Jensen, "Canning Comes to 
                                New Mexico
                            : Women and the Agricultural Extension Service, 1914-1919," 
                        
                                    New Mexico
                                 Historical Review, LVII (October 1982), 361-86; Jensen,
                            "Crossing Ethnic Barriers in the Southwest: Women's Agricultural Extension
                            Education, 1914-1940," Agricultural History, LX (Spring 19861,
                            169-81; and Dorothy Schwieder, "Changing Times: 
                                Iowa
                             Farm Women and Home Economics Cooperative Extension in the 1920s and
                            1950s," in Murphy and Venet, Midwestern Women, 204-22. On rural
                            farm women in the twentieth century see Katherine Jellison, Entitled to Power:
                                Farm Women and Technology, 1913-1963 (Chapel Hill, N.C.,
                            1993); Mary Neth, Preseming the Family Farm: Women, Community, and the
                                Foundations of Agribusiness in the Midwest, 1900-1940 (
                                Baltimore
                            , Md., 1995); Deborah Fink, Open Country, 
                                    Iowa
                                : Rural Women, Tradition, and Change (
                                Albany
                            , N.Y., 1986); and Fink, Agrarian Women: Wives and Mothers in Rural 
                                    Nebraska
                                , 1880-1940 (Chapel Hill, N.C., 1992).
               
                     to their peers in neighboring 
                  Ohio, Michigan
               , and 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana legislators paid little attention to the problems of women in industry. While
                    laws were passed in the 1890s requiring seats for women employed in retail stores and factories and
                    prohibiting their employment in manufacturing between the hours of 10 p.m. and 6 a.m., the laws were
                    never augmented to include minimum wages, maximum hours, or weight-lifting limits. Unlike women in
                    other states, moreover, activist Indiana women's organizations in the Gilded Age and
                    Progressive Era generally did not press for protective legislation for working women. The principal
                    historian of Indiana's woman movement notes bluntly that "the issue of protective
                    legislation for working women remained secondary to other causes for most females, and never found a
                    personal champion among Hoosier reformers."63 Although some women
                    lobbied for a ten- or an eight-hour day for wage-earning women in the state before and after 1920,
                    the loudest female voices on this issue, those of members of the Indiana Business and Professional
                    Women's federation, successfully opposed such legislation.64 This
                    apparent anomaly in the history of the politics of gender merits attention.
            The limited legislation regulating female working conditions did not mean either that occupational
                    segregation by sex did not exist in Indiana or that gender equality was somehow taken for granted.
                    What it meant was the labor market was not laden with the well-established rhetoric of gender
                    difference and gender hierarchy that characterized similar discussions in other states. It also
                    meant that women in Indiana had little historical experience of either cross-class cooperation or
                    conflict around issues of employment. Working women were neither passive nor quiescent. Although
                    they remained invisible to contemporaries as well as historians, women factory workers sometimes
                    upset Hoosier labor relations, the industrial economy, and politics.65 These
                    circumstances had implications for the resurgence 
                  
                     63Springer, "Ladylike Reformers," 51.
                  
                     64The self-proclaimed spokespersons for all working women in the
                            state, the Indiana Business and Professional Women's federation (BPW)
                            self-consciously advocated employers' interest in no regulation. The BPW openly
                            referred to itself as the Women's Chamber of Commerce, the men's version
                            of which also led the campaigns against female labor laws. For more information on this
                            subject see Lisa Phillips, "Indiana's 'Female
                            Breadwinners': The Politics of Protective Labor Legislation, 1913-1929"
                            (M.A. thesis, Purdue University, 1993); Nancy Gabin, "The Politics of Gender: A
                            Framework for a History of Women in Indiana" (Emma Lou Thornbrough Lecture, paper
                            presented at Indiana Association of Historians meeting, 
                                Butler
                             University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , November 8,1996).
                  
                     65See Nancy Gabin, "Gender and Power in Rural America: Women
                            Factory Workers and Labor Activism in Indiana since 1880"; Gabin, "The
                            Campaign for Right-to-Work Legislation and the Political Economy of Gender in Indiana,
                            1935-1965" (paper delivered at Indiana Association of Historians meeting, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , February 25, 1995); and David Anderson, "'Are You Sure You
                            Want to Call Them Ladies?': Restoring Women's Participation in the Perfect
                            Circle Strike of 1955" (paper delivered at North American Labor History Conference, 
                                Wayne
                             State University, 
                                Detroit
                            , Mich., October 17, 1998).
               
                    
                    
                  "LIBRARIANS
                            AT SPEARSVILLE," MAY 12,
                            1926, PHOTOGRAPH
                            BY FRANK M. HOHENBERGER: Courtesy,
                            The Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana
                of the women's rights movement beginning in the 1960s and the campaign for the
                    equal rights amendment in the 1970s. They also have influenced the dynamics of labor and party
                    politics in the state. Historians of Indiana need both to explain the invisibility of wage-earning
                    women in Indiana and to make them visible.
            The wage earning of Indiana women is just one of a host of subjects worthy of attention by historians
                    of the modern era. Lana Ruegamer highlights the achievements of Dorothy Riker, the historian and
                    editor for the Indiana Historical Bureau and Indiana Historical Society, who, with her fellow
                    editors Nellie Armstrong Robinson and Gayle Thornbrough, "exercised considerable influence
                    over what was published in Indiana history" between 1929 and 1979. Little, however, is
                    known about the integration of Indiana women into other male-dominated professions, such as law,
                    medicine, and the ministry. Moreover, as women's labor historians have long argued,
                    "work" must be broadly defined, to include not only remunerated labor but unpaid
                    efforts within the home as well. At this point the daily lives and domestic experience of females in
                    rural areas are better understood than those of their counterparts in towns and cities. Social
                    historians have paid too little heed to Indiana. The impact of modern developments in technology,
                    medicine, and popular culture on Hoosier  girls and women, for
                    example, is yet unknown. The work of sociologists Helen Merrell Lynd and Robert Lynd on 
                        Muncie
                     in the 1920s and 1930s, combined with the follow-up work of the 
                        Middletown
                     III project and the Center for 
                        Middletown
                     Studies at Ball State University, offer suggestions for essential and rewarding
                    research. The Lynds examined a range of themes that are still important some sixty years after they
                    declared 
                        Muncie
                     the middletown of America. Getting a living, making a home, training the young, using
                    leisure, engaging in religious practices, and engaging in community activities continue to define
                    the lives of Hoosiers. By exploring these aspects of life in historical context, in the distant as
                    well as the recent past, scholars will enrich and advance our understanding of women and gender and
                    their place in the history of the state, the Midwest, and the nation.66
            
            A new framework for Indiana women's history to replace the one constructed by Boruff and her
                    contemporaries sixty years ago is long overdue. Most studies of the history of women in Indiana have
                    not transcended the narrow paradigm established by Women of Indiana. The strengths
                    of these studies—their inward looking, painstaking attention to detail and biographical
                    focus—also constitute the great weakness of Indiana women's history. Although
                    there is an important place for biographical studies of women, the tendency of this approach to
                    degenerate into uncritical examination of famous women, without regard for context, is evident since
                        Women of Indiana was published.
            The historiography on women in Indiana implicitly demonstrates that Indiana history is not merely
                    local in significance. Despite the hesitance of some historians of the state to broach the larger
                    significance of their research, taken as a whole their work engages various important debates about
                    historical change and continuity in 
                  
                     66Lana Ruegamer, "Dorothy Lois Riker, 1904-1994: Reflections
                            on Indiana History, Historical Editing, and Women in the Historical Profession,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, XCI (September 19951, 246-66. For 
                                Muncie
                             see Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrell Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                : A Study in Modern American Culture (1929; reprint, 
                                New York
                            , 1956); Lynd and Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition: A Study in Cultural Conflicts (
                                New York
                            , 1937); Theodore Caplow, et al., 
                                    Middletown
                                 Families: Fifty Years of Change ad Continuity (
                                Minneapolis
                            , Minn., 1982); and Audrey Gale Boltz, "The Changing Roles of Women of 
                                Middletown
                            : A Three-Generational Study" (Ed. D. dissertation, Ball State
                            University, 1991). The work of sociologists, anthropologists, and folklorists offers insight
                            into the recent experiences of women in Indiana. See, for example, Susanne P. Bair,
                            "The History and Development of Girls' High School Sport in the State of
                            Indiana" (P.E.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1991); Jennifer Livesay,
                            "Women at the Church Doon: Gender, Protest, and Belief in a Midwestern Women-Church
                            Group" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1998), an examination of a small
                            group of Catholic women in 
                                Bloomington
                            ; and Elaine J. Lawless, God's Peculiar People:
                                Women's Voices & Folk Tradition in a Pentecostal Church (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1988), an ethnographic analysis of women's participation in
                            several small Holiness churches in southern Indiana.
               
                     politics, economics, and society. The history of Indiana women,
                    for example, casts new light on the notion that men and women occupied separate spheres. Indiana
                    women's history reveals the extent to which rural as well as urban women were active
                    performers in both private and public arenas simultaneously, and it also indicates the importance of
                    the Indiana experience for understanding the political and economic history of the region and the
                    nation.
            Boruff s design need not be abandoned. But it needs remodeling and expansion to include the
                    experience of women who were not white, urban, and middle class. It also should move from individual
                    to collective biography. And we need to know not only what women have done but also how attention to
                    gender as an analytical category alters Indiana history. Thus women's history—a
                    field often criticized as too narrow and particular—can show us the extent to which state
                    history is neither parochial nor provincial.
         
         
         
            
               ADA ELSWORTH STUART
                        AND ALICE EARL STUART, TWO
                        OF
                        THE
                        MOST
                        PROMINENT
                        MEMBERS
                        OF LAFAYETTE'S
                        CORE
                        GROUP
                        OF
                        WOMEN
                        VOLUNTEERS
                        DURING
                        THE PROGRESSIVE ERA, AT
                        THEIR
                        ESTATE, EARLHURST: Courtesy,
               Tippecance County Historical Association
            
            
            The Changing Allegiances of Women Volunteers in the Progressive Era, 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana, 1905-1920
            Joan E. Marshall∗
            
            After the terrible flood of the Wabash River following torrential spring rains
                    in 1913, 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana, Mayor George R. Durgan put the 
                        Lafayette
                     Charity Organization Society (LCOS) in charge of relief for the homeless, and the
                    city's Morning Journal lauded its work. Since its establishment in 1905,
                    this voluntary association had become dominant in the city's poor relief system, replacing
                    many isolated organizations with a network of private relief givers coordinated under its direction
                    to help the poor help themselves.1 Part of LCOS's strategy was to
                    subsume women activists from clubs, church societies, and charitable groups under its umbrella,
                    making LCOS the place for 
                        Lafayette
                    's elite women volunteers.2 LCOS's success was
                    recognized in November 1913 when its board president, Thomas 
                  
                     ∗Joan E. Marshall is a former social service agency
                            director whose current interest is making the records of 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County poor relief accessible for researchers in the 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Historical Association archives. Her most recent publication is
                            "Shaping Poor Relief for the Sick-poor in Indiana's Pioneering Era, 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County, Indiana, 1826-1846," forthcoming in the Social
                                Service Review. She wishes to thank Nancy F. Gabin, Purdue University, West 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, for her invaluable assistance in commenting on earlier drafts.
                  
                     1
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, March 28, April 10, 1913. For an overview of the Charity
                            Organization Society see Frank Dekker Watson, The Charity Organization Movement
                                in the 
                                    United States
                                : A Study in American Philanthropy (
                                New York
                            , 1922); Robert H. Bremner, "'Scientific
                            Philanthropy,' 1873-93," Social Service Review, XXX
                            (June 19561, 168-73; and James Leiby, "Charity Organization Reconsidered,"
                                ibid., LVIII (December 19841, 523-38. For COS in Indiana see W. C.
                            Ball, "The Work of the 
                                Terre Haute
                             Society for Organizing Charity," Indiana Bulletin of
                                Charities and Corrections (December 1909), 423-26; Joan E. Marshall,
                            ""he Charity Organization Society and Poor Relief for the Able-Bodied
                            Unemployed 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, 1905-1910," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XCIII (September 19971, 217-43; Emily Walker McNew, "A History of Associated
                            Charities of 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, 1889-1899 (Masters thesis, Indiana University, 1955); Maude Prier,
                            "Charity Organization in the Smaller Cities," Proceedings of
                                the National Conference of Charities and Corrections, 1907, pp. 379-83; and
                            Genevieve C. Weeks, Oscar Carleton McCulloch, 1843-1891: Preacher and
                                Practitioner of Applied Christianity (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1976), 184-206.
                  
                     2LCOS's embrace of volunteer organizations did not include
                            Catholic, working-class, or African American groups. Nonelite women's groups were
                            not listed in city directories or covered in newspapers. See Anne Firor Scott,
                            "Most Invisible of All: Black Women's Voluntary Associations,"
                                Journal of Southern History, LVI (February 1990), 3-22. One exception
                            was newspaper notice of the African American Royal Crescent Club's lobbying of the
                            school board, demanding improvements at the segregated Lincoln School. See 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, March 16, 1916. For African American women activists in
                            Indiana (primarily 
                                Indianapolis
                            ) see Darlene Clark Hine, When the Truth is Told: A History of
                                Black Women's Culture and Community in Indiana, 1875-1950 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1981).
               
                     Moran, was elected president of the Indiana Board of Charities
                    and Corrections state conference.3 But just five years later, in November 1918,
                    LCOS had fallen so far from its lofty position that the Journal (mistakenly)
                    reported its demise.4 In one more year the fading LCOS was gone. What happened?
            LCOS's dissolution was not unique. The loss of women volunteers to new
                    interests—such as civic reform, women's suffrage, and World War I home front
                    efforts—was a critical factor in the waning of the Charity Organization Society.5 Some scholars see the process by which women activists were drawn away from
                    participation in traditional religious/charitable organizations and toward public policymaking as
                    simply an expansion of women's domestic sphere.6 Women were said to
                    have followed their maternal interest in the wellbeing of children and families by gradually
                    extending their nurturance and superior morality beyond religious/benevolent/cultural societies;
                    this development led to civic matters and then on to the fight for women's suffrage. More
                    recent researchers on women's activism in the Progressive Era analyze factors of race,
                    ethnicity, and class and challenge the women's separate sphere paradigm, which focused on
                    elite white Protestant native-born women.7 However, 
                  
                     3
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, November 19, 1913.
                  
                     4For the Journal's apology for its mistake
                            see ibid., November 29, 1918.
                  
                     5See, for example, Kenneth L. Kusmer, "The Functions of
                            Organized Charity in the Progressive Era: 
                                Chicago
                             as a Case Study," Journal of American History, LX
                            (December 19731, 672; Watson, Charity Organization Society, 385, 437.
                  
                     6Paula Baker, "The Domestication of Politics: Women and
                            American Political Society, 1780-1920," American Historical
                            Review, LXXXM(June 19841, 620-47; Maureen A. Flanagan, "Gender and Urban
                            Political Reform: The City Club and the Woman's City Club of 
                                Chicago
                             in the Progressive Era," American Historical Review,
                            XCV (October 1990), 1032-50. For an historiography of the separate spheres paradigm see
                            William H. Chafe, "Women's History and Political History: Some Thoughts on
                            Progressivism and the New Deal," in Visible Women: New Essays on
                                American Activism, ed. Nancy A. Hewitt and Suzanne Lebsock (
                                Chicago
                            , 1993), 102-108; Linda K. Kerber, "Separate Spheres, Female Worlds,
                            Woman's Place: The Rhetoric of Women's History," Journal of American History, LXXV (June 1988), 9-39; Manuela Thurner,
                            "Subject to Change: Theories and Paradigms of U.S. Feminist History," Journal of Women's History, IX (Summer 1997), 124-26.
                  
                     7Women activists in the Progressive Era came from a wide diversity of
                            backgrounds. See, e.g., Nancy A. Hewitt, "Varieties of Voluntarism: Class,
                            Ethnicity, and Women's Activism in Tampa," in Women,
                                Politics, and Change, ed. Louise A. Tilly and Patricia Gurin (
                                New York
                            , 1990), 63-87; Hewitt, "In Pursuit of Power: The Political Economy of
                            Women's Activism in Twentieth-Century Tampa," in Hewitt and Lebsock, Visible Women, 199-222; and Hewitt, "Politicizing Domesticity:
                            Anglo, Black, and Latin Women in Tampa's Progressive Movements," in Gender, Class, Race, and Reform in the Progressive Era, ed. Noralee
                            Frankel and Nancy S. Dye (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1991), 24-41; Stephanie J. Shaw, "Black Club Women and the
                            Creation of the National Association of Colored Women," Journal of
                                Women's History, I11 (Fall 1991), 10-25; Elizabeth Hayes Turner, Women, Culture and Community: Religion and Reform in Gulveston, 1880-1920 (
                                New York
                            , 19971, 228-60,249-69; Jacqueline A. Rouse, "
                                Atlanta
                            's African-American Women's Attack on Segregation,
                            1900-1920," in Frankel and Dye, Gender, Class, Race, 10-23;
                            Judith Weisenfeld, African American Women and Christian Activism: 
                                    New York
                                's Black YMCA, 1905-1945 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1997); and Deborah Gray White, "The Cost of Club Work, the
                            Price of Black Feminism," in Hewitt and Lebsock, Visible Women,
                            247-69.
               
                     even for this elite group, the separate spheres trope has
                    limitations, as it discounts the significance of class and ignores the effects of mixed-sex
                    interactions in women's journey away from benevolent work.
            Important steps on that journey reinforced the volunteers' identity as women of a
                    "superior" class. Both the women's suffrage movement and the World War I
                    homefront mobilization effort targeted women like those on the LCOS board precisely because of their
                    social position. Sara Hunter Graham describes how Carrie Chapman Catt, leader of the National
                    American Woman Suffrage Association (NAWSA), devised a "Society Plan" to recruit
                    members from charitable organizations and women's clubs in order to make suffrage more
                    acceptable to those who were offended by the image of strident suffragists. Moreover, arguments that
                    women should have the vote because they had the capacity to exercise it and that the votes of
                    "superior" women could counteract votes of "inferior" groups
                    enhanced the volunteers' self-satisfaction and underlined their class status.8
            
            Trained clubwomen from white middle and upper classes were sought to mobilize women volunteers for
                    the homefront efforts. Elite class identification was also strengthened by women's club
                    membership, a critical factor in the movement of women into the larger political arena. Clubs served
                    as a protected environment where women gained self-confidence by learning speaking and organizing
                    skills. Ironically, at the same time that club membership increased their exposure to new ideas and
                    widened their connections with similar women throughout the country in a national network of clubs,
                    it also distanced clubwomen from those they had been seeking to help in charitable organizations by
                    reinforcing class boundaries; club membership was often exclusive and reflected the
                    community's hierarchy. In addition, clubwomen's lobbying public officials to
                    persuade them to change laws also reinforced the women's class position and kept them less
                    sensitive to the needs of other classes.9
            
            
               
                  8For elitism in benevolent organizations see Linda Gordon, "The
                        New Feminist Scholarship on the Welfare State," in Women, the State, and
                            Welfare, ed. Gordon (
                            Madison
                        , Wis., 1990), 25-26; Turner, Women, Culture, and Community, 119,
                        148-49; and Sarah Deutsch, "Learning to Talk More Like a Man: 
                            Boston
                         Women's Class-Bridging Organizations, 1870-1940," American Historical Review, XCVII (April 1992), 384-88. For elitism in the
                        women's suffrage movement see Sara Hunter Graham, "The Suffrage Renaissance: A
                        New Image for a New Century, 1896-1910," in One Woman, One Vote:
                            Rediscovering the Womens Suffrage Movement, ed. Majorie Spruill Wheeler (Troutdale,
                        Ore., 1995), 157-78; Wheeler, "A Short History of the Woman Suffrage Movement in
                        America," in ibid., 14-15; Aileen S. Kraditor, The Ideas
                            of the Woman Sufi frage Movement, 1890-1920 (
                            New York
                        , 1965), 43-71.
               
                  9For elitism in World War I homefront efforts see Emily Newell Blair, The Woman's Committee, 
                                United States
                             Council of National Defense: An Interpretive Report, April 21,1917 to February
                            27,1919 (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1920); Ida Clyde Clarke, American Women and the World War (
                            New York
                        , 1918), 1-50; Susan Zeiger, "In Uncle Sam's Service: American
                        Women Workers with the American Expedrtionary Force, 1917-1919" (Ph.D. dissertation, 
                            New York
                         University, 19911, 14-33. For elitism in women's clubs
            
            
            Although much research has examined the role of single-sex groups in the development of the
                    self-confidence, autonomy, and indirect political style necessary for elite women to change their
                    commitment from traditional charity work to wider civic participation,10 less
                    attention has been given to the effect of women's interactions with the male civic
                    establishment. Case studies in Galveston and in Tampa illustrate some of the ways that male civic
                    leaders could affect the course of women activists.11 In both cities
                    women's collaboration with men in the creation of city commission governments enhanced
                    their social standing and also gave them the personal experience of political power. By contrast,
                    when men opposed them, as, for example, Galveston's civic leaders opposed the
                    Women's Health Protective Association's health ordinance reform, women activists
                    became aware of the limits of class connections; as Elizabeth Hayes Turner observes, "As
                    unenfranchised citizens, the women learned that parlor politics was no substitute for
                        votes."12 Women's failures could also enhance gender
                    solidarity and lead to actions to address newly perceived powerlessness. In Tampa the failure of
                    elite white women activists to place a female on the school board led to the formation of the Equal
                    Suffrage League the next year.13
            
            Much of the research on women's activism in the early twentieth century has concentrated on
                    the evolution of organizations, ignoring the changing allegiances of influential volunteers.14 This article examines the demise of one midwestern community's
                    charity organization movement and argues that it reflected the changing interests of a group of
                    women volunteers essential to three interrelated private philanthropic organizations: LCOS, the Free
                    Kindergarten and Industrial School Association (FKISA), and the Martha Home. From 1905 to 1920 a
                    core group of women shifted their affiliations from mixed-sex charitable groups aimed at needy local
                    residents to women's organizations centered on women's issues, including the 
                  see Karen J. Blair, The Clubwoman as Feminist: True Womanhood Redefined,
                                1868-1914 (
                                New York
                            , 1980), 63-64; Turner, Women, Culture, and Community, 151-84;
                            and Marsha Wedell, Elite Women and the Reform Impulse in 
                                    Memphis
                                , 1875-1915 (
                                Knoxville
                            , Tenn., 1991), 76-107.
                  
                     10see, for example, Blair, Clubwoman as Feminist;
                            Estelle Freedman, "Separatism as Strategy: Female Institution Building and American
                            Feminism," Feminist Studies, V (Fall 19791, 512-29; Michael
                            McGerr, "Political Style and Women's Power, 1830-1930," Journal of American History, LXXVII (December 1990), 864-85; Anne Firor
                            Scott, Natural Allies: Women's Associations in American History (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1992); and Theda Skocpol, Protecting Soldiers and Mothers:
                                The Political Origins of Social Policy in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 19921, 321-43.
                  
                     11Hewitt, "In Pursuit of Power"; Turner, Women, Culture, and Community, 187-227.
                  
                     12Turner, Women, Culture, and Community, 223.
                  
                     13Hewitt, "In Pursuit of Power," 210.
                  
                     14See, e.g., Blair, Clubwoman as Feminist; Deutsch,
                            "Learning to Talk More Like a Man," 379-404; Marion W. Roydhouse,
                            "Bridging Chasms: Community and the Southern YWCA," in Hewitt and Lebsock,
                                Visible Women; Wedell, Reform Impulse in 
                                    Memphis
                                .
                  
               
                     vote for women. Their change in priorities came about because
                    club work gave these women the skills, ideas, and techniques to step beyond benevolence into the
                    civic arena. When their failures to influence municipal officials demonstrated the limits of elite
                    women's influence, they formed female organizations aimed at civic participation and the
                    vote for women. The public recognition of women's World War I homefront activities cemented
                    the leadership of the upper/middle-class female community, which continued after the achievement of
                    suffrage. The core volunteer women chanty leaders were first and foremost women of their class, and
                    each step on the way enclosed them more tightly within their gender and class, making them less
                    sensitive to the needs of the city's poor and less interested in affiliations with
                    benevolent organizations.
            In 1913, 
                        Lafayette
                    , the seat of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County, a rich agricultural area of northwest Indiana, was a thriving city of just over
                    twenty thousand people. Although the city had grown 11 percent between 1900 and 1910, it was
                    sheltered from many of the problems stemming from immigration, urbanization, and industrialization
                    that were common elsewhere in the northeastern states because of its homogeneous population (98
                    percent white and 95 percent native born) and its limited industrial base. With many small plants
                    but no large factories, 
                        Lafayette
                     was not an industrial giant. It was a railroad center, featuring many warehouses and a
                    large mercantile trade.15 Although the diversified economy offered some
                    protection from hard times, the ordinary laborer eked out a minimal living, teetered on the brink of
                    poverty, and was easily felled by any passing misfortune.
            Soon after 
                        Lafayette
                    's settlement in 1826, religious women got together to help the needy poor.
                    LCOS's precursors were citywide groups of volunteer churchwomen who organized each autumn
                    to collect donations of flour, wood, and pork for distribution to the indigent during the cold
                    weather. Relief efforts became more secular at the turn of the century; goods were distributed to
                    the needy by the nondenominational FKISA, which was established in 1896.16
                    FKISA's 
                  
                     15 U.S., Thirteenth Census, 1910: Vol. 11, Population, 536, 562, 569; Mary A. Stubbs Moore, State of
                                Indiana: Bureau of Statistics, Twelfth Biennial Report for 1907 and 1908 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 19081, 560, 839-41; John L. Peetz, State of Indiana: Bureau of
                                Statistics, Thirteenth Biennial Report for 1909 and 2910 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 19101, 1222-24; Thomas W. Brolley, State of Indiana: Bureau of
                                Statistics, Fourteenth Biennial Report for 1911 and 1912 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 19131, 750-52; State of Indiana: Ninth Annual Report of the
                                Department of Inspection of Manufacturing and Mercantile Establishments, Laundries,
                                Bakeries, Quarries, Printing Offices, Hotels and Public Buildings, 1905 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 19061, 106-108; Carl Leonard Jorosz, "The Industrialization of 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, 1850-1900: A Half Century of Frustration" (Masters thesis,
                            Purdue University, 1975).
                  
                     16
                     
                                Tippecanoe
                            
                            Journal and Free Press, March 25,1847; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, January 7, 1856, November 12, 1879; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, December 5, 1861;
               
                     purpose was to change "the homes and lives of the
                    children of the poor for the better through education and moral training."17 With FKISA, the role of volunteers became more specialized; a paid professional teacher and
                    interns from Purdue University did the face-to-face work with clients, leaving the management of the
                    organization in the hands of a board of women volunteers and a male advisory board. As the number of
                    industrial school and kindergarten pupils increased, handling poor relief became burdensome for the
                    professional teacher, which prompted the establishment in 1905 of LCOS, a permanent year-round
                    organization managed by a mixed-sex volunteer board and staffed with women professionals.18
            
            
               
                        Lafayette
                     volunteers were aware of the organized charity movement, which was promoted by the
                    Indiana Board of State Charities. The board's eighth annual state conference, held in 
                        Lafayette
                     in October 1899, included an address by national reformer Charles R. Henderson on the
                    "Value of Associated Charities in Small Cities," as well as a session and a round
                    table devoted to that topic. At that time four Indiana communities had charity organization
                    societies; by 1906 there were eighteen communities and by 1914 fifty-five.19 The
                    charity organization society movement was in the forefront of the professionalization of social
                    work, replacing all-volunteer charitable organizations with agencies that included trained, paid
                    workers. 
                        Lafayette
                     volunteers had heard Rev. J. Challen Smith at the 1899 conference define a qualified
                    secretary as Some one who is trained by actual experience to do scientific charity work; some one
                    who can give all his time and thought, who knows when to give and when wisely to
                        withhold."20 The new 
                        Lafayette
                     organization hired as its general secretary Mary E. Fauntleroy, who had worked for the
                    Associated Charities of 
                        Evansville
                    . The board supported her further training in the summer of 1906, when she attended the
                    school of philanthropy in 
                        New York
                     City and studied under Dr. Edwin Divine.21 After Fauntleroy
                    identified a "crying need" for an industrial training home 
                  
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Journal, December 15,1893; Alice Earl Stuart, "Record of
                            the Formation of the Free Kindergarten and Industrial School and First Public
                            Playground," manuscript ca. 1920, Free Kindergarten and Industrial School
                            Association (FKISA) Collection (
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Historical Association, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind).
                  
                     17Constitution of 
                                Lafayette
                             Free Kindergarten and Industrial School Association, Article II, FKISA
                            Collection.
                  
                     18Stuart, "Formation of Free Kindergarten"; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, September 5, 1905.
                  
                     19Prier, "Charity Organization in the Smaller
                            Cities," 379-383; Indiana Bulletin of Charities and Corrections
                            (June 1900), 10-15, 47-63,106-20; ibid. (December 1907), 23-49; ibid. (June 1915), 277; U.S., Twelfth Census, 1900, Vol.
                            I, Population, 446-48.
                  
                     20
                            Indiana Bulletin of Charities and Corrections (June 1900), 49.
                  
                     21
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, December 8,1905, December 7,1906, January 8,1909. In 1909
                            Fauntleroy resigned because of poor health and was replaced by Mary W. Lindly, an Indiana
                            University graduate with ten years' experience in the 
                                Indianapolis
                             COS.
               
                    
                    
                  LAFAYETTE'S
                            CORE
                            GROUP
                            OF
                            WOMEN
                            VOLUNTEERS
                            FOUNDED
                            THE FREE KINDERGARTEN
                            AND INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL ASSOCIATION
                            IN 1896 TO
                            HELP
                            "THE
                            CHILDREN
                            OF
                            THE
                            POOR." THE INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL
                            OFFERED
                            SEWING
                            CLASSES
                            LIKE
                            THIS
                            ONE
                            AT
                            THE
                            TURN
                            OF
                            THE
                            CENTURY.
                  Courtesy, 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Historical Association
               
                     for "friendless and misdirected girls" who
                    were "drifting into … paths of unrighteousness,"22
                    in 1908 LCOS sponsored the establishment of the Martha Home, a nondenominational organization run by
                    a mixed-sex board and staffed with a paid matron.23
            
            A group of thirteen women had crucial leadership positions with LCOS, FKISA, and or the Martha
                        Home.24 The organizations were peripheral to their male board
                    members' main interests, but for this core of women volunteers these charities were a
                    central interest. Without their commitment, FKISA, LCOS, and the Martha Home would not have
                    commenced, nor would they continue. These thirteen acted as managers, directing paid professionals,
                    rallying community support, and affecting policy. They did not participate in the "friendly
                    visiting" that characterized some volunteer work at this time. Only Ida Lahr, Irene
                    Coulter, and Ada McMahan had any direct contact with clients. Lahr and Coulter assisted
                    FKISA's teachers for a short while, and McMahan served as medical consultant for the
                    residents of Martha Home.25 Although there is little documentary evidence about
                    the women's feelings toward and perceptions of the poor, their lack of contact with clients
                    and their organizations' rigid focus on inculcating middle-class values suggest that they
                    viewed the lives and needs of their clients through a class prism. Training poor females in sewing,
                    laundry, and cooking prepared them to become well-qualified domestics, which also kept them in their
                    place. Scraps of evidence seem to reveal a class-based bias, as seen in Alice Earl Stuart's
                    comments on the availability of industrial school pupils for serving at luncheons and dinner parties
                    and in Mary Ely's complaint to the LCOS Advisory Council about the imperfect sewing of
                    Martha Home inmates. Ely criticized them for being unwilling to work under supervision and attested
                    to a "need to educate poor women to secure a better attitude."26 At the state conference in 1899 Father Francis H. Gavisk, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     Catholic priest, criticized "a certain self-sufficiency on part of officers of
                    charity organizations; a sort of toplofty attitude, a feeling of 'I am better than
                    you,'" which probably characterized the 
                        Lafayette
                     women.27
            
            
               
                  22
                        
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Sunday Times, October 7, 1907.
               
                  23
                  
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Daily Courier, September 24,1896; 
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Daily Call, February 11, October 4, 1897.
               
                  24The core group analyzed in this essay was composed of Selvena Blaine
                        Alder, Lucy Post Coulter, Mary Post Ely, Flora Work Kern, Ida Lahr, Mary Marshall Hay-wood, Ada
                        McMahan, Alice Earl Stuart, Ada Ellsworth Stuart, Caroline Shoemaker, Gertrude Simison Taylor,
                        Eliza Jenkins Vinnedge, and Velnette Adams Wilson. What distinguishes these thirteen volunteers
                        for LCOS, FKISA, and the Martha Home from scores of others was their leadership positions year
                        after year.
               
                  25Stuart, "Formation of Free Kindergarten"; Martha Home
                        Annual Report, 1909-1910, printed pamphlet, Martha Home Collection (
                            Tippecanoe
                         County Historical Association, 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind.).
               
                  26
                  
                            Lafayette
                         Charity Association Society Advisory Council Minutes, February 1908-April 1910,
                        November 9, 1909 (
                            Tippecanoe
                         County Historical Association, 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind.).
               
                  27
                  "Indiana Bulletin of Charities and
                        Corrections (June 1900), 112.
            
            
            The core women fit the category of volunteers described by one historian as a "small group
                    of the unusually favored."28 Because of their affluence and stage of
                    life, they were comparatively free from domestic responsibilities. All thirteen were active members
                    of Protestant churches (7 Presbyterian, 4 Methodist, and 2 Episcopalian). In the city's
                    social scheme the women were in the top layer, daughters and wives of substantial citizens; their
                    successful fathers were professional men (2 doctors, 2 ministers), businessmen (a hotel owner),
                    bankers, and large landholders; their spouses were multifaceted businessmen and civic leaders
                    (primarily Republican). Eight of their spouses, along with the two Stuart widows and McMahan, were
                    on the list of "gentlemen" who contributed $100 each to the 
                        Lafayette
                     Country Club's start-up fund. Nine of the thirteen were educated beyond high
                    school at places as diverse as Mount Holyoke College, the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , and an art school in 
                        New York
                     City. The three unmarried women were employed professionals—McMahan was a
                    physician; Caroline Shoemaker was Purdue's first dean of women; and Lahr was an accountant.
                    Three more had taught school for several years before marriage. They traveled widely and belonged to
                    a variety of organizations that had national agendas, and they were also closely connected to
                    powerful men through kinship and marriage.29
            
            The two most socially prominent of the thirteen were Alice Stuart and Ada Ellsworth Stuart, who were
                    friends and sisters-in-law. Their social standing rested on the positions of their fathers and
                    husbands. Ada's father, Henry W. Ellsworth, was the grandson of Oliver Ellsworth, a
                    delegate to the constitutional convention of 1787 and a 
                        United States
                     Chief Justice; Henry was a Yale graduate who had been the owner of the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier and served as minister to Norway and Sweden under President James K. Polk.
                    Alice's father, Adams Earl, had developed a large wholesale merchandising operation coupled
                    with banking interests, and then went on to build a railroad, buy thousands of acres of farmland,
                    and breed champion cattle, parlaying his interests into a fortune that was displayed in a grand
                    estate, Earlhurst. The women's spouses, the Stuart brothers, were both graduates of Amherst
                    College and 
                        Columbia
                     Law School and were attorneys for the 
                        Wabash
                     Railroad. Both widowed in the 1890s, the Stuart women were freed from spousal roles to
                    become more active outside the home. In 1896 Alice became FKISA's first president and 
                  
                     28Scott, Natural Allies, 80.
                  
                     29Their median age in 1907 was 49. The ten married women averaged 1.3
                            children each, with three being childless. R. P. DeHart, Past and Present of 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                 County (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1909), 11, 533-36, 635-37; Logan Esarey, History of Indiana from
                                its Exploration to 1922, also a history of 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                 County and the Wabash Valley
                      (3 vols.,
                                    
                        Dayton, Ohio
                     , 1928), 111, 166-67,176-78,635-37; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, November 6, 1909; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, June 2, 1916; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal Courier, August 10, 1925, November 11, 1927, May 16, 1936, March
                            29, 1937, October 9, December 4, 1942, October 7, 1943, March 4, 1946.
               
                     served often in that office for more than two decades. At
                    Alice's elbow was her friend Ada, who served as vice president in 1897. The women were also
                    side-by-side on LCOS's founding board and at the Martha Home's organizational
                        meetings.30
            
            The core women's place in the local social structure was reinforced by their club
                    memberships, which included the Monday Club, the Parlor Club, and the Twentieth Century Club.31
                    
                        Lafayette
                    's most exclusive club, the Monday Club, included most of these women. The
                    Monday's prospective members were looked over during an annual Guest Day and then culled
                    with some sort of a blackball procedure. The details remain clouded in a coy extract from a history
                    written by one of the original members: "When a lady in Lafayette came to me, after she had
                    attended a 'Guest Day' meeting of our Club, and asked me what a person had to do to become a member of the
                    'Monday Club,' I smiled and gave no answer."32 The
                    Monday Club encouraged self-improvement by presentations and discussions in programs that went
                    beyond cultural topics to political questions about the role of women. One of the more frivolous
                    presentations was Ada Stuart's impersonation of Mrs. Jelly by on the club's first
                    Dickens Day in 1888, but eight years later in 1896 Ada spoke on "Decorative Art as a
                    Profession for Women." The next year, Lucy Coulter's topic was "Margaret
                    Fuller: A study of the Woman Question," and in 1903 subjects included "The Double
                    Standard of Morality."33 The way club work prompted women volunteers to
                    move into civic activism was described in 1916 by a 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal columnist, the "Woman About Town." She wrote that clubs
                    freed women "from their natural timidity and self-distrust, and afforded opportunities to
                    study those things heretofore closed to them," which enabled them "to assert and
                    cultivate their civic conscience."34
            
            Karen Blair credits the organization of women's clubs into state and national federations
                    with pushing local women's clubs toward community reform. After the Monday Club joined the
                    Indiana Federation of Clubs in 1890, which connected 
                        Lafayette
                     clubwomen with the National Federation in 1906, more of its study topics were aimed at
                    civic improvement; a 1908 topic was "Civic Beautification," for 
                  
                     30DeHart, 
                        
                                    Tippecanoe
                                 County, 11, 612-15, 1199-1201; Esarey, History of
                            Indiana, 111, 150-51,156-59,181-83; Charles Roll, Indiana: One Hundred and
                                Fifty Years of American Development (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1931), IV, 358-59,439-40; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, December 21,1876, September 4,1878; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, August 12,1892, July 23,1895, January 14,1898; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, December 1,1896; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Sunday Times, March 26, 1905. Alice inherited the Earl estate after her
                            parents died in 1905. She managed a large livestock operation and was a director of the
                            Merchants National Bank of 
                        Lafayette.
                                    Lafayette
                     
                            Journal and Courier, July 27, 1937.
                  
                     31Women's Club Collection (
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Historical Association, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind.).
                  
                     32Mary Weaver Perrin, "Monday Club History,"
                            typescript, 1936, p. 2, ibid.
                  
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., p. 5; Monday Club Booklets, 1896-1897, 1908-1909, ibid.
                  
                  
                     34
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, March 19, 1916.
               
                     example. The Indiana State Federation of Clubs worked for
                    legislation connected with the women's sphere, such as laws on pure food, better housing,
                    and child labor. The federation also moved toward supporting women's suffrage, passing a
                    resolution in 1909 to place women on every school board and finally endorsing the vote for women in
                    1913. The Monday Club followed by voting unanimously to support women's suffrage in 1915.
                    That same year, Ely took the affirmative in a Monday Club debate, "Have men left tasks for
                    women voters?"35
            
            Although some of the core women participated in federation events (Ada Stuart chaired the state
                    program committee, and the two Stuarts traveled together to 
                        New York
                     City to attend the biennial conference of the National Federation of Women's
                    Clubs), they were not state or national club leaders.36 But they did bring ideas
                    and techniques back to the local scene. They learned, for example, that rather than providing
                    kindergartens or industrial schools for poor children one at a time, here and there, one could
                    induce the government to do this across the board. Learning how to lobby for legislation affected 
                        Lafayette
                    's core women's philanthropic work by enlarging their frame of
                    reference and giving them another way besides fundraising to handle that work.
            In 1908 two of 
                        Lafayette
                    's women leaders, Alice Stuart and Nettie Wilson, applied their club-learned
                    lobbying skills to work for a civic reform targeted by LCOS, the appointment of a municipal police
                    matron to deal with women and children who came in contact with the authorities. At an Indiana Board
                    of Charities and Corrections conference the year before, Wilson had supported the appointment of
                    jail matrons to take charge of women inmates, and a police matron for 
                        Lafayette
                     had been on LCOS's agenda since 1906; but it was a communication in 1908 from
                    Amos 
                        Butler
                    , the president of the Indiana Board of State Charities and Corrections, that
                    jump-started the action. The police matron reform had particular appeal to the core women, because
                    of the advantages that the presence of a police matron promised for LCOS and Martha Home. As noted
                    in the minutes of the LCOS Advisory Board, a police matron could both relieve LCOS's
                    overburdened secretary of extra duties connected with police referrals and supervise the residents
                    of Martha Home, providing a remedy for its financial struggles.37
            
            
               
                  35Blair, Clubwoman as Feminist, 93-99; Perrin,
                        "Monday Club History," pp. 4, 6, 15; Monday Club program booklets, 1904-1905
                        to 1916-1917, Women's Club Collection. For 
                            Lafayette
                         clubwomen's early participation in the state federation see Grace Gates
                        Courtney and Arcada Stark Balz, History: Indiana Federation of Clubs (
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Ind., 1939), 42-49, 80-82, 120-23, 191-94, 222-25; 
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Morning Journal, March 23, 1915.
               
                  36
                  
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Morning Journal, October 15, 1917; Courtney and Balz, Indiana
                            Federation of Clubs, 193, 253.
               
                  37
                  
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Morning Journal, February 4,1908; 
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Daily Courier, April 4, 6, 1908; Indiana Bulletin of Charities
                            and Corrections (June 1901), 37-40; ibid. (June 1908), 120; 
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Sunday Times, September 3, 1906; LCOS
            
            
            These organizational needs were not mentioned in the campaign for a matron led by LCOS committee
                    heads Wilson and Stuart. Instead, they used arguments based on women's unique morality. 
                        South Bend
                     police chief James McWeeny, who had taken part in the previous year's state
                    conference along with Wilson, spoke under LCOS's sponsorship and asserted that a police
                    matron would bring her "womanly ability" to cases that demanded "a
                    woman's counsel and care."38 Supporting editorials also
                    centered on gender, asserting that men were not "temperamentally constructed by
                    nature" to reform, but women with their "boundless sympathy" could
                    "point the way to right living."39 When Stuart and Wilson
                    presented the need for a police matron to the city officials, the city officials sent them to the
                    county commissioners; the commissioners, who claimed to have no jurisdiction in the matter, sent
                    them to the sheriff; but the sheriff as a county employee could not employ a city matron.40 The Daily Courier expressed admiration for the women's perseverance
                    in fighting for "so meritorious a cause" and in going "to every city
                    official, county official and even to the attorney general of the state."41
            
            When the police matron proposal finally came to the city council for a vote on June 2, 1908, Stuart
                    and Wilson attended but did not speak for themselves. Wilson's description of her earlier
                    work for the Indiana women's prison illustrates the backseat role the core women had
                    accepted in their mixed-sex ventures; Wilson had reported that, "While woman's
                    work for woman should always be aggressive, sane and sympathetic, we left it to men to investigate,
                    nourish and bring to recognition and action among the lawmakers of our State this wise reform
                        measure.42 Although Wilson and Stuart themselves led the many preliminary
                    meetings with city and county officials on the police matron issue they persuaded Republican State
                    Senator Will Wood to speak on their behalf at the critical city council meeting. He, too, cited
                    women's special attributes, claiming that "Women have a sympathy and a knowledge
                    of their own sex that no man knows anything about."43 Nevertheless, the
                    ordinance failed to receive the required two-thirds majority vote.
            
               Advisory Council Minutes, March 23, April 27, May 25, June 22, 1908. For Indiana women
                        activists' earlier attempt to secure municipal police matrons see Susan B. Anthony et al., eds., The History of Woman Suffrage (6 vols., 
                            Rochester
                        , N.Y., 1883-1920), IV, 625. For an example of an earlier campaign for a police
                        matron by elite women activists in 
                            Memphis
                         see Wedell, Reform Impulse in 
                            Memphis
                        , 91-94. For Indiana Board of Charities and Corrections see John A. Brown, Historical Sketches of Public Welfare in Indiana and Indiana State Conference on
                            Social Work ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ,] 1963), 20-22; Alexander Johnson, Adventures in Social Welfare, Being
                            Reminiscences of Things, Thoughts and Folks During Forty Years of Social Work (
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Ind., 1923), 81-169.
               
                  38
                        
                            Lafayette
                         Morning Journal, February 26, 1908.
               
                  39 Ibid., June 2, 1906.
               
                  40 Ibid., April 4, 8, 1908.
               
                  41
                        
                            Lafayette
                         Daily Courier, May 19, 1908.
               
                  42 Indiana Bulletin of Charities and Corrections (June 1908), 37.
               
                  43
                        
                            Lafayette
                         Daily Courier, June 2, 1908.
            
            
            The Journal blamed the failure of the bill on the police officials' belief
                    that the matron would be a sentimental meddler who would interfere with their work.44 Other factors, however, may have entered into the decision. The Democratic city council
                    would not necessarily have been persuaded to support the measure by a Republican state senator, nor
                    would the councilmen, mostly men of humble origins, have been easily swayed by the committeewomen,
                    who were described as "the most prominent women in 
                        Lafayette
                    ."45 The fight for a police matron did not end with this
                    failure. The women's ally, Senator Wood, introduced legislation to change the Indiana
                    police matron statute, which had excluded 
                        Lafayette
                     because of size requirements, to include 
                        Lafayette
                     specifically. The act passed but was never enforced, because it was (conveniently) lost
                    and never reached the governor's desk for signing.46
            
            The intense involvement of Wilson and Stuart in the campaign probably made the failure of the police
                    matron ordinance a personal defeat for them. This outcome triggered a decisive change, deflecting
                    the core women from an emphasis on private charitable work to an effort to increase their political
                    leverage. When the women pushed the police matron issue again in the mayoral election of 1913, they
                    did not enlist a powerful man to speak for them to the city council, and they did not appear under
                    the aegis of the mixed-sex LCOS. They lobbied as members of two new female organizations, the
                    Woman's Council and the 
                        Lafayette
                     Franchise League, both of which had been formed partly in response to the failure of
                    the police matron project.47 With these organizations the core women who had
                    been essential to FKISA, LCOS, and the Martha Home stepped beyond women volunteers'
                    traditional area of benevolence and jettisoned the protective window dressing of prominent men who
                    were members of the benevolent organizations. They also stepped beyond exclusive clubs, because the
                    two new organizations needed large memberships to achieve their purposes.
            Although the Woman's Council and the Franchise League shared some key leaders, they were two
                    distinct organizations aimed at different segments of the female white middle-class population. The
                    Woman's Council was aimed at more conservative women who might be put off by an active
                    campaign for women's rights but who, nevertheless, had an interest in civic affairs. It
                    joined clubwomen and philanthropic women in one body, with a membership composed of female
                    representatives from the now-defunct LCOS Advisory Council and women's 
                  
                     44
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, June 2, 1908.
                  
                     45
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, June 2, 1908.
                  
                     46
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, February 16, March 15,1909; Courtney and Balz, Indiana Federation of Clubs, 193.
                  
                     47
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, May 10, 1912, March 14, 1913; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, May 10, 1912; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, February 9, March 22, April 12, 1912, March 14, 1913,
                            February 4, 1914.
               
                     social clubs. The Woman's Council, like similar groups
                    formed by clubwomen throughout Indiana, engaged in noncontroversial activities in the
                    "municipal housekeeping" tradition, such as cleaning up dumps or sponsoring city
                    beautification contests, and it interacted amicably with the city leadership in the implementation
                    of these projects48 eliciting favorable comment on its "practical
                    work… in making 
                        Lafayette
                     a cleaner and more beautiful city."49 But it also used its
                    benign stance to create a wider bloc of women as a potential pressure group by backing the
                    establishment of a mothers' club in every school, groups that were represented on the
                    Woman's Council by a Mother's Council. Although the Woman's Council
                    recruited a large membership base, its reins remained in the hands of the core women. Officers Ada
                    Stuart, Ely, Lahr, and Mary Haywood were reelected each year with some reshuffling of positions.
                    President Stuart also appointed core women as five out of six committee heads (the one exception
                    being the housewives' committee).50
            
            The Franchise League aimed to attract women more open to the goal of woman suffrage, but it moved
                    gingerly toward that objective. Reports of the original meeting in McMahan's parlor on
                    March 7,1912, show that the women treated the vote like a hot potato, with the Courier stating its purpose was "to bring the franchise nearer to women" and
                    the Journal declaring that the group did "not expect to ask for local
                    suffrage," but just wanted to have a voice in local affairs.51 The
                    principal speaker at the organizational meeting, 
                        Indianapolis
                     suffrage leader Mrs. J. S. Barnhill, advocated woman's suffrage as a step
                    toward "a civilization in which man and woman shall stand side by side on the same equal
                    moral, legal, and economic footing"; but local speakers followed the conservative approach,
                    connecting suffrage to the women's sphere. Mrs. Emma McRae asked the women who did not want
                    the vote for themselves to work for the "reforms that are bound to help a vast number of
                    women"; and Henrietta Calvin urged women to extend their traditional influence beyond the
                    home, saying, "women have an instinct for housekeeping and … they must have one
                    for municipal housekeeping."52
            
            The Woman's Council and the Franchise League shared the immediate goal of putting a woman on
                    the school board. The idea had been endorsed by the Indiana Federation of Clubs three years earlier
                        
                  
                     48
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, February 29, April 26, 1912, February 18, April
                            9,13,1914; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, April 10,1912; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, March 14, 1913; Indiana Bulletin of Charities
                                and Corrections (June 1915), 279, 384-89.
                  
                     49
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, March 17, 1913.
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., February 29, 1912, April 15, 1915; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, May 10, 1912; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, March 1, 6, 14, April 12, 1912.
                  
                     51
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, March 7, 1912; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, March 8, 1912.
                  
                     52
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, March 15, 1912.
               
                     and was also a tactic of the Women's Franchise League
                    of Indiana, which was a member of the National American Woman Suffrage Association (NAWSA).53 Interest in female school board representation in Indiana originated in 1909
                    when the League's precursor, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Suffrage Society, used the issue as a way "to stimulate interest and give an
                    outlet for the energy of its members,"54 and discovered that women
                    "who were indifferent to the larger aspects of suffrage" were "eager for
                    a woman on the school board."55 In almost all of Indiana's
                    municipalities school boards were appointed, not elected, which meant that women needed the right to
                    vote for mayors and city councils in order to affect appointments to school boards. 
                        Lafayette
                    's women leaders were aware of the state League's program; just a
                    month after the 
                        Lafayette
                     League's first meeting, Ada Stuart, Ely, Lahr, and McMahan attended the state
                    convention at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The new 
                        Lafayette
                     Franchise League was among the first branches of the state organization, and its tie to
                    the state league was strengthened with McMahan's election as a director. In 1913 she helped
                    prepare a pamphlet for the Woman's Franchise League of Indiana entitled
                    "Suggestions for Suffrage Programs," which included "Police Women and
                    Jail Matrons" and "Women as School Commissioners and Trustees" as
                        topics.56
            
            The petitions presented to the city council in June 1912 by McMahan, Lahr, and Wilson of the 
                        Lafayette
                     Franchise League and the Woman's Council did not argue that women had a right
                    to vote; instead they claimed that a woman, to be selected among three nominees (Lahr, Wilson, and
                    Ada Stuart), should be appointed to the school board because "the problems of the
                    school… are essentially problems of the home and women." McMahan contended that
                    a woman board member was "proper" because mothers knew more than men about young
                        people.57 Although the city councilmen declared themselves
                    "honored" by the presence of the women, they appointed Bennett Taylor, an action
                    that rubbed salt into a wound.58 Taylor was the husband of Gertrude Taylor, a
                    core woman and a founding 
                  
                     53Courtney and Balz, Indiana Federation of Clubs,
                            194; Anthony et al., History of Woman Suffrage, VI, 171-80.
                  
                     54Anthony et al., History of Woman Suffrage, VI,
                            171.
                  
                     55
                     Ibid., 172.
                  
                     56
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, April 2, 15, 1912; Woman's Franchise League of
                            Indiana, Suggestions for Suffrage Programs (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1913), 
                                Lafayette
                             Franchise League Collection (
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Historical Association, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind.). "Municipal Suffrage" was the title of an address
                            presented to the 
                                Lafayette
                             Women's Christian Temperance Union in 1906 by Helen M. Gougar, a
                            well-known Indiana suffragist of the 1880s and 1890s. Minutes of the Frances Willard Union,
                            1905-1909, November 9, 1906, Women's Christian Temperance Union Collection (
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Historical Association, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind.).
                  
                     57
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, March 15, 1912.
                  
                     58
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, May 21, 1912.
               
                     member of the Franchise League. The same effort, for Ada Stuart
                    as the sole candidate, met with the same result in 1913.59
            
            These failures illuminated the powerlessness of the disenfranchised women and spurred more action for
                    suffrage by the 
                        Lafayette
                     Franchise League and for more direct political civic involvement by the
                    Woman's Council. The local league worked wholeheartedly for women's suffrage,
                    following instructions from the Indiana Franchise League to produce press releases, fairs, plays,
                    and other programs aimed at influencing state legislation. Core women spread the word in
                    presentations such as Flora Kern's "Women's Suffrage—Its
                    Status in Indiana" at the Women's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU) Spring
                    Institute in 1914. The 
                        Lafayette
                     league was connected to the national campaign through the state league and received
                    communications and support from national leaders such as Carrie Chapman Catt. In November 1916
                    Taylor hosted a tea for national leader Anna Howard Shaw, whose appearance was headlined
                    "Eloquent Talk Charms Crowd," and Dr. Effie McCollum Jones, director of NAWSA,
                    spoke at three 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County locations on Suffrage Sunday in 1917 "to carry the appeal
                    'Wake Up! Women of Indiana!'"60
            
            While the Franchise League was working toward state suffrage legislation, the Woman's
                    Council and its auxiliary Mother's Council concentrated on ousting the unsympathetic
                    Democratic city administration; they backed the Citizens party, a political coalition of Republicans
                    and Progressives, in the mayoral election, ostensibly to improve the moral tone of the city, which
                    their study committee had found wanting. Although these women were treading on new turf, their
                    rationale remained firmly within women's special, albeit expanding, sphere and traded on
                    their gender's acknowledged moral superiority. The Woman's Council and the
                    mothers' clubs announced their support for "any party that will eradicate the
                    city's evils and purify the city"; the mothers' clubs petition claimed
                    that the immoral conditions under the present administration were "a menace to the peace of
                    our homes the moral safety of our sons and daughters and the general welfare of the
                        community."61
            
            Citizens party candidate Thomas Bauer welcomed the women's support. He recognized that their
                    widely aired criticism of the prostitution and gambling that occurred during the
                    incumbent's administration could have an impact on what was expected to be a very close
                    election, and he adopted as the first plank on his platform a pledge to enforce "every law
                    which relates to public purity and civic 
                  
                     59
                     Ibid., May 22, 28,1912, May 30, June 3,1913; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, June 6, 1913.
                  
                     60
                     
                                Lafayette
                             Franchise League Collection; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, November 14, 1916, June 20, 28, 1917. The core
                            women's connection to the state organization became closer in 1917 with the
                            election of Ada Stuart's daughter, Mane Stuart Edwards, as its president.
                  
                     61
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, October 17, 1913.
               
                     decency."62 In addition, Bauer
                    specifically wooed these women with a plank supporting the Woman's Council's new
                    push for a police matron.63 He also promised that under his administration
                    "every man, woman, and child in the city will be treated alike," with "no
                    discrimination shown in any particular."64 Parlor politics added to his
                    openness to the core women's issues, since outspoken advocates of his candidacy included
                    LCOS president Thomas Moran, Martha Home board member Rev. Oscar McKay, and spouses of core women
                    Haywood and Selvena Alder.65
            
            The women responded by appearing at Bauer's nomination on October 13, 1913;66 on October 31, they formally endorsed him after he addressed a group of 250 women, whom he
                    praised by saying, "No man could but feel very proud at having such a gathering before whom
                    to speak."67 Bauer won the election by 16 votes, and the Citizens party
                    took control of the city council.68 The women's efforts in airing the
                    morality issue had made a difference in the city election. Former Mayor Durgan later acknowledged
                    this when he announced himself to be a candidate for the next election. He stated, "I have
                    but one promise to make during this campaign and that is, if elected, I will give the city a more
                    moral administration than this one which was elected on 'moral'
                        issues."69
            
            The women's elation was short-lived. Plank or no plank, the new mayor did not immediately
                    appoint a police matron, despite another petition from the Woman's Council.70 When the matter was forced upon the mayor's attention in February 1914 by the
                    temporary closure of the bankrupt Martha Home, he still put it off, saying, "We first want
                    to make the police department properly efficient and then we will take up extra
                        features."71 The Martha Home's board of directors was
                    particularly anxious for this appointment, expecting a city-paid police matron to relieve them of
                    the burden of providing the home matron's salary. But Mayor Bauer waffled, warning that
                    "It remains to be seen just what position she will occupy in relation to the Martha home or
                    a like institution," but then promising, "In due time we will take up this police
                    matron matter and try to solve the problem to the satisfaction of all concerned."72
            
            
               
                  62
                  Ibid. In 1914 Indiana Federation of Clubs leader Grace
                        Julian Clarke boasted about clubwomen's persuading the authorities to employ police
                        matrons in 
                            Fort Wayne
                         and 
                            Terre Haute
                        . Indiana Bulletin of Charities and Corrections (June 1915), 279,
                        384, 389.
               
                  63
                  
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Weekly Courier, October 17, 1913.
               
                        64
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  65
                  Ibid., September 12, October 17, 1913.
               
                  66
                  
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Morning Journal, October 17, 1913.
               
                  67
                  Ibid., November 1, 1913.
               
                  68
                  
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Weekly Courier, November 7, 1913.
               
                  69
                  
                            Tippecanoe
                         County Democrat, October 19, 1917.
               
                  70
                  
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Weekly Courier, January 16, 1914.
               
                  71
                  Ibid., February 20, 1914.
               
                        72
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            When a police matron was finally appointed by Mayor Bauer a year later, in March 1915, neither the
                    appointee nor her duties were what the Martha Home directors had hoped for. The mayor bypassed the
                    woman recommended by the Martha Home board and hired Eunice Martin, who was recommended by the
                    metropolitan police board and whose responsibilities were not to include the Martha Home.73 After experiencing the euphoria of helping to win an election, the core women
                    learned a bitter lesson. Although their group had the power to put a plank on the Citizens'
                    platform and to affect the outcome of an election, without the vote they lacked the necessary clout
                    to get the police matron post implemented in the way they wanted. In the end, the women's
                    contribution and social connections had not mattered a whit; a male peer with power ignored their
                    lobbying efforts just as the previous Democratic municipal officials had.
            Without the expected boost of municipal funding for the matron's salary, Martha Home was in
                    financial crisis. Moreover, the new police matron complained to the police superintendent that two
                    unsupervised teenaged girls who were locked in Martha Home would be at "the mercy of the
                    flames" in case of fire.74 Martha Home's board issued
                    defensive statements and accused Martin of making a malicious accusation because of jealousy, adding
                    that "The present police matron is not helping the city a particle in the rescue and relief
                        work."75 After weathering these crises, with the help of a
                    front-page fundraising campaign that conspicuously displayed the names of the Stuarts as patrons,
                    the Martha Home limped along with fewer residents and a more limited mission, reflecting its
                    precarious financial condition. Martha Home gave up its attempt to train residents, blaming the
                    building's small size and the constantly changing occupancy. It was moving away from
                    serving the dependent poor, and the majority of its residents were now self-supporting boarders.76
            
            FKISA was also moving away from its original purpose. The group's move, however, did not
                    stem from a failure to get government funding for their work; on the contrary, the changes occurred
                    because they had succeeded in getting local government to take over their projects. Although the
                    kindergartens were managed by FKISA, since 1907 some of their expenses had been paid with county tax
                    money. In 1914 the high school began to offer domestic science courses, and the public school began
                    a vocational program that duplicated and improved upon the Industrial School curriculum, causing an
                    immediate drop in the Industrial School enrollment and leading to its demise two years later. While
                    the need for FKISA's services was diminishing, the association was in a solid financial
                    condition because 
                  
                     73
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, March 20, 1915.
                  
                     74
                            Ibid., September 24, 1915.
                  
                     75
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, September 25, 1915.
                  
                     76
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, February 23, 24,1914, March 10,1915; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, March 31, 1917.
               
                     they sold a donated lot for almost $5,000, which
                    added a cushion to the annual tag day fundraising, in which on a given day members of the
                    organization sold tags that donors wore to show they had given (and to persuade others to give).77
            
            LCOS was in the opposite situation. The downturn in the national economy in 1914 resulted in local
                    unemployment and an influx of unemployed transients, which more than doubled its client load and
                    strained its financial resources.78 In December and January alone LCOS expended
                    half of its annual income, prompting the general secretary to complain about the "severe
                    drain" brought on by the "constant demand."79 The
                    proceeds from a hastily scheduled charity concert in March 1915 were insufficient, and by the end of
                    the year LCOS needed an immediate infusion of cash. Its condition remained so precarious that in
                    January 1916 a newspaper reported that, without immediate financial aid, "the work will
                    have to be abandoned."80
            
            In the light of the resources available to 
                        Lafayette
                    's women leaders, the financial problems of LCOS and the Martha Home do not
                    seem insurmountable. Their sister organization, FKISA, had a surplus of $5,000 in its
                    coffers. Alice Stuart, LCOS's vice president, had rescued the organization in the past and
                    had donated $10,000 to Home Hospital in 1916.81 While these women had
                    access to personal wealth and the ability to raise money, their enthusiasm was focused elsewhere.
            March 1915, a crisis month for the Martha Home and LCOS, was the month that 
                        Lafayette
                    's Franchise League distributed a special suffrage newspaper issue as part of a
                    frontal assault for the vote. The Courier cited the women's journalistic
                    work as an accomplishment that "argues most emphatically against the theory that the
                    woman's sphere extends only so far as the walls of the kitchen and the sewing
                        room."82 However, a front-page poem emphatically demonstrated that
                    their argument for suffrage was a gendered one—women's votes, by reflecting
                    women's special qualities, would improve society. The first stanza claimed:
            
               
                  77
                  
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Sunday Times, April 12, 1914; 
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Morning Journal, March 24, September 15, 1914, September 24, 30, October 1,
                        1916; 
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Weekly Courier, December 22, 1916; Free Kindergarten and Industrial School
                        Association, Minutes 1912-1922, January 1914, May 17, November 20,1916, FKISA Collection;
                        Trustees of Common School Records, 1906-1913, November 4, 1907, Education Collection (
                            Tippecanoe
                         County Historical Association, 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind.).
               
                  78
                  
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Weekly Courier, October 3, 1913; 
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Daily Courier, October 23, 1915.
               
                  79
                  
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Morning Journal, March 11, 1915.
               
                  80
                  
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Daily Courier, March 11, 15, October 27, 1915; 
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Morning Journal, March 11, 16, July 8, November 27, 1915, January 27, 1916.
               
                  81
                  
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Morning Journal, April 7, 1916.
               
                  82
                  
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Daily Courier, "Suffrage and Fashion Week Number," March 16,
                        1915.
            
            
            
                    A wondrous change will sure be seen
                    When women vote;
                    Our politics will all be clean
                    When women vote;
                    From gambling dens, from poor, and dice
                    There'll be no evils to entice
                    When women vote.83
               
                
            The issue listed eight core women on the league's board, with Lucy Coulter as president. The 
                        Lafayette
                     Franchise League that year increased its membership to 120, an achievement noted by
                    state league leader Harriet Noble at a district meeting held at 
                        Lafayette
                     in November 1915. She lauded the 
                        Lafayette
                     league as "one of the most progressive in the country and composed of
                    determined and intelligent women."84
            
            Mary Ely's conflicting interests in 1915 are representative of the core women and their
                    gravitation toward women's issues. A founding member of the Franchise League and first vice
                    president of the Woman's Council, Ely had also been a member of the LCOS advisory board and
                    was president of Martha Home.85 In her appearance before the FKISA board in
                    January and February 1915, she did not ask for help for the limping women's shelter or the
                    financially strained LCOS; instead, she came in her role as Woman's Council director to ask
                    for money to purchase a building to serve as a community house for women's activities. The
                    Woman's Council wanted their own building, a space for their affairs outside the confines
                    of their parlors or church halls, as a symbol of their new status as activists in civic affairs. But
                    a community house was not immediately obtained. Although the FKISA board favored a woman's
                    building at the end of 1915, following supporting reports by Ada Stuart and Lahr, at the March 1916
                    meeting they put the community house on hold.86
            
            In 1915-1916 no one ever suggested the use of FKISA's money to bail out the Martha Home or
                    LCOS, possibly because another solution was being explored: a federation of all the city's
                    charities, so that their needs would be taken care of in just one fund drive. Federation appealed to
                    the core women, who no longer needed or wanted the responsibility of keeping these organizations
                    afloat. Ada Stuart 
                  
                            83
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     84
                            Ibid., November 9, 1915. Lahr and Lucy Coulter spoke at this district
                            meeting, and McMahan was toastmistress at its banquet.
                  
                     85 Mary Post Ely, Lucy Post Coulter's sister, came to 
                                Lafayette
                             in 1903 after the death of her spouse, a wealthy 
                                New York
                             merchant, and became active in the Young Women's Christian Home (later
                            the Martha Home), the LCOS Advisory Committee, and WCTU. In 1908, she led LCOS's
                            unsuccessful attempt to enlist the cooperation of saloon keepers in refusing to serve LCOS
                            recipients. She conducted a bible class at Central Presbyterian Church and was a member of
                            the Monday Club.
                  
                     86 FKISA Minutes, January 11, February 15, December 13, 1915, March
                            15, 1916.
               
                     and Haywood had key positions in the yearlong series of
                    federation meetings beginning in December 1915, which included representatives from the city
                    charities, city and county officials, the Chamber of Commerce, and the Merchants Association. The
                    plan that finally emerged created a Social Service Council of charities, with individual charities
                    theoretically giving up individual fund campaigns. However, this plan was immediately undermined by
                    exceptions. Charities with long-established ways of raising money were allowed to keep them, such as
                    FKISA's tag day and the Salvation Army's kettles. In the end only two
                    organizations were completely dependent on the new Social Service Council—the Martha Home
                    and LCOS. Rather than helping these two ailing organizations, the Social Service Council put another
                    layer of bureaucracy between them and their donors.87 When LCOS general
                    secretary Lillian Mahin saw her job diminished in authority, she resigned. LCOS was without an
                    administrator for six months, because the search committee headed by Alice Stuart waited until
                    federation plans were completed before hiring a new general secretary.88
            
            During this period the Salvation Army, a presence in the city since 1911, nudged LCOS from its
                    central place in the city's charity network, receiving generous donations and widespread
                    community support. Large crowds attended its evening gospel services; it housed hundreds of
                    derelicts and aided scores of families. Army aid went beyond basic needs to providing garden lots,
                    free shaves and haircuts, and even sewing classes.89 Four years earlier, LCOS
                    had seen the Salvation Army as a threat to its control of the city's charities,
                    recommending that the Army stay out of charity work even though it was doing "commendable
                    work along religious and other lines";90 but in 1916 LCOS's
                    annual report pointed the finger at itself, faulting its assumption of "duties which it had
                    neither the staff or the funds to discharge."91 The report acknowledged
                    LCOS's failure to coordinate 
                        Lafayette
                    's charities into an efficient network, describing the year's charity
                    work as "a turmoil of indiscriminate giving" at Christmas followed by
                    "apathetic disregard," and it ended with the hope that the new Social Service
                    Council would affirm the value of 
                  
                     87
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, January 29, October 21, November 11, 1916; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, April 28, May 5, October 27, 1916; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, December 7, 1916. See Roy Lubove, The
                                Professional Altruist: The Emergence of Social Work as a Career, 1880-1930 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1965), 181-211, for a discussion of community charity federations.
                  
                     88
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, April 6, 1916; Children's Home Association Board
                            Minutes, April 10,1916 (
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Historical Association, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind.); 
                                Tippecanoe
                             Board of Children's Guardians Minutes, April 1916 (
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Historical Association, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind.).
                  
                     89
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, October 17, 1912.
                  
                     90
                            Ibid., October 14, November 28, 1911, November 29, December 18, 22, 1915,
                            January 5, February 1, 1916; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, December 24, 1915, March 3, April 4, May 30, 1916.
                  
                     91
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, November 7, 1916.
               
                     organization in charity work. LCOS's new secretary,
                    Theodosia Williams, a well-qualified graduate of the University of 
                        Chicago
                    , took over a fatally impaired LCOS in November 1916 and resigned less than a year
                        later.92
            
            The Social Service Council looked strong on paper. Its two guiding principles were cooperation to
                    prevent needless duplication and one campaidone donation financing; and its officers included Ada
                    Stuart and Haywood. But the four male bankers on the finance committee raised only half the amount
                    needed for the year in a lackadaisical campaign.93 The Social Service Council
                    attributed its financial problems to competition from World War I homefront activities, and in
                    November 1917 it chided 
                        Lafayette
                     residents for ignoring their own community, declaring that "Giving to the
                    stricken abroad ought not to deprive the really needy at our own door steps."94 But even before war work became fashionable, the core women, whose energy and status
                    were essential to fundraising, were moving away from charity work toward political and suffrage
                    activities.
            Moreover, America's declaration of war did not interrupt efforts to place a woman on the
                    school board. The political climate for this reform had become more favorable because of the headway
                    made by the Indiana Franchise League. The Indiana General Assembly of 1917 amended the state
                    constitution to delete the word "male" from the section on voter qualifications
                    and also passed a partial suffrage bill immediately granting women the right to vote for
                    presidential electors, municipal officials, and delegates to a proposed constitutional convention.
                    With women apparently able to vote in the 1917 municipal elections, 
                        Lafayette
                    's women leaders again presented a woman to the city council as a candidate for
                    the 
                        Lafayette
                     school board.95 Undeterred either by the observation of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    
                    Democrat's "Man on the Corner" that candidate Alder was
                    "not the mother of children,"96 or the fact that suffrage was
                    in sight, the core women continued to pursue the strategy of placing school board membership within
                    the woman's sphere. The "Woman About Town" columnist wrote,
                    "Suffragist or no suffragist, all must admit that there is no sphere of civic life more
                    related to womankind than the public schools."97
            
            Alder was a board member of Martha Home, the Children's Home, the Social Service Council,
                    and the Franchise League and was 
                  
                     92
                     Ibid., November 7, 12, 1916, October 10, 1917.
                  
                     93
                            Ibid., December 6, 9, 1916; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, February 7, May 21, October 10, November 9, 1917.
                  
                     94
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, November 7, 1917.
                  
                     95Phillips, Indiana in Transition, 501-502; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, June 4, 1917; 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Democrat, November 2,1917. The new Indiana suffrage
                            law was declared unconstitutional by the Indiana Supreme Court in October 1917.
                  
                     96
                     
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Democrat, June 8, 1917.
                  
                     97
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, June 7, 1917.
               
                    
                    
                  SERENA ALDER, ELECTED
                            BY LAFAYETTE
                            CITY
                            COUNCIL
                            MEMBERS
                            TO
                            THE
                            SCHOOL
                            BOARD
                            IN 1917, WAS
                            THE
                            FIRST
                            WOMAN
                            TO
                            SERVE
                            ON
                            THE
                            BOARD. Courtesy, 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Historical Association
                deaconess of the Presbyterian church. Widow of banker William W. Alder, a prominent
                    Republican, she was backed by Mayor Bauer (who had rejoined the Republican party).98 The core women's efforts on her behalf were noted by the Democrat's "Man on the Corner," who observed that councilman
                    Hinders, a drayman, was lobbied by the group—"the same faction that backed Mr
                    Bauer in his campaign of four years ago"—as if he were the guest of honor at a
                    "Pink Tea" and sarcastically suggested that Hinders' constituents would
                    be "proud" when they saw their councilman "with one of his newly
                    discovered lady friends gliding gracefully through the dreamy waltz … with the gallantry
                        
                  
                     98
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, June 19, 1917.
               
                     of a 
                        Virginia
                     colonel."99 But even so, Alder's election did not
                    come easily. McMahan's presentation on her behalf prompted "The Man on the
                    Corner" to point out that McMahan was an "old maid," caustically adding,
                    "I am sure she will not be offended when I call attention to the fact that she, also, is
                    not a mother."100 The vote of the council members deadlocked after
                    fifteen ballots. At the next city council meeting, Alder finally won on the fourth ballot, leading
                    the twenty women present (including the two Stuarts, McMahan, Caroline Shoemaker, Lahr, Kern, and
                    Haywood) to applaud.101 The Courier reported that a
                    "motherly" Alder would "exert a most wholesome influence" on the
                    public school system described as "distinctly women's sphere."102
            
            One discordant note in Alder's election was sounded by an unsigned letter in the Democrat from a disgruntled Franchise League member, who complained that the
                    election of Alder had been engineered by a small elite group. The writer called it "a
                    crooked deal" and asked, "IS it right for a few women of wealth to pick out the
                    woman that they wish?"103 Apparently the core group maintained control
                    even as the membership of its organization broadened.
            The same coterie who pushed for Alder's election to the school board dominated the homefront
                    leadership positions available to women. Their war activities dovetailed with their interests in
                    civic activism and suffrage. These women were members of the corps of fourteen and four-minute
                    "men" who spoke on patriotic topics; some served on the community service
                    committee connected with Camp Purdue; and some had their own special war relief charities, such as
                    Haywood's French and Belgian orphans. Alice Stuart was appointed as the only woman member
                    of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County of Defense. From this position she could select other women for highly visible
                    homefront posts; she chose FKISA cofounder Lucy Coulter as the chairman of the Hoover Food Pledge
                    Campaign and appointed her sister-in-law, Ada, to organize the federally mandated registration of
                        women.104
            
            Women were most persuasive on the homefront in liberty loan bond and thrift stamp campaigns, chaired
                    by Alice Stuart. When the men who managed the first two liberty loan drives turned to women to help
                    with the subsequent campaigns, the Journal's "Woman About 
                  
                     99
                     
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Democrat, June 22, 1917.
                  
                     100
                            Ibid., June 8, 1917.
                  
                     101
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, June 5, 19, 1917. For another campaign for a female
                            school board member see Wedell, Reform Impulse in 
                                    Memphis
                                
                     , 112-32.
                  
                     102
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, June 19, 1917.
                  
                     103
                            
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Democrat, June 8, 1917.
                  
                     104
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, June 18, July 29, August 15, September 10, 18, October
                            20,26, November 14,1917, February 8,15, March 29, May 28,1918; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, September 7, 14, 1918; 
                        
                                    Tippecanoe
                                 County Honor Roll (
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., 19191, 12-13, 19-23, 32.
               
                     Town" columnist crowed that something had happened
                    that was unheard of three years earlier—women were asked to cooperate with men. She
                    reported that one woman asked, "Are we to work under the direction of men?" The
                    answer was, "No we are to work WITH the men." The mayor told them, "You
                    can map out your own campaign.105 After a planning meeting, Alice Stuart
                    declared enthusiastically that although the women realized the "stupendousness of the
                    task," they felt "confident," and pledged "to do more than a
                    man's part to make 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County shine in the Liberty Loan effort."106 Alice Stuart
                    delegated duties to other Franchise League members, including her sister-in-law, Ada. These
                    campaigners did such "remarkable work in signing up 1,767 subscribers in the third liberty
                    loan drive that the very next month they were enlisted in the Red Cross drive—up to that
                    time a man's province.107 The Journal reported that
                    the Red Cross executive committee regarded themselves as "particularly fortunate"
                    to have the services of those campaigners, "fresh from their recent victory."108 These women were equally successful in the thrift stamp organization,
                    exceeding their quota by $12,000, a "feat" deemed the "most
                    remarkable" ever performed by 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County women.109
            
            In this exhilarating time, women working together were accomplishing something noticed by the outer
                    world, something different from their former work for charities. The "Parada" in
                    1910, for example, a large entertainment producing a "parade of youth and beauty"
                    for the benefit of LCOS and put together by the same core of committed women and chaired by Ada
                    Stuart, paled in comparison with these war drives.110 The women's war
                    work displayed the skills they had learned in clubs and the self-confidence they had achieved in
                    striving for school board representation. Recognized with respect, the women silenced the ridicule
                    sometimes aimed at their club work. Moreover, they accomplished important tasks without the need to
                    lobby powerful men. As the Journal's "Woman About Town"
                    declared after the war, "The strife, terrible as it was, gave women a place— one
                    might say a business place—in this world and they are not going to give up what they have
                    won without a battle."111 Their comradery and pride were demonstrated
                    in a parade in May 1918 organized by 
                  
                     105
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, March 30, 1918.
                  
                     106
                            Ibid., March 25, 1918.
                  
                            107
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     108
                            Ibid., May 16, 1918.
                  
                     109
                            Ibid., June 5, 1918. For Indiana women's part in the liberty loan
                            drives see Walter Greenough, The War Purse of Indiana: The Five Liberty Loans
                                and War Savings and Thrift Campaigns in Indiana During the World War (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 19221, 181-98. 
                                Lafayette
                             women were slightly ahead of the curve, planning their own campaign in the
                            third rather than the fourth drive and having a woman as chair of the thrift stamp campaign.
                  
                     110
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, December 6, 9, 13, 1909.
                  
                     111
                            Ibid., February 8, 1918.
               
                    
                    
                  DR. ADA MCMAHON,
                                AMONG
                            THE
                            MOST
                            ACTIVE
                            LEADERS
                            IN
                            THE
                            DRIVE
                            TO
                            GET
                            A
                            WOMAN
                            APPOINTED
                            TO
                            THE LAFAYETTE
                            SCHOOL
                            BOARD
                            AND
                            DIRECTOR
                            OF
                            THE INDIANA FRANCHISE LEAGUE, SERVED
                            IN FRANCE
                            AS
                            A
                            PHYSICIAN
                            IN
                            A
                            HOSPITAL
                            TREATING FRENCH
                            SOLDIERS
                            DURING WORLD WAR I. Courtesy, 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Historical Association
                McMahan, a Red Cross director, before she went to 
                        France
                    .112 The parade celebrated women, supposedly because the Red Cross
                    was known as "the greatest mother in the world," but it really was celebrating
                    women's war work. The Purdue military band and the Purdue attachment of the U. S. Army led
                    hundreds of marching women, including Red Cross production workers, Junior Red Cross societies,
                    nurses, and "every woman's group in town."113 Some of
                    the core women rode on floats—Lucy Coulter on the Red Cross Home Service Float and Alice
                    Stuart on the Council of Defense float.
            
               
                  112
                  
                            Tippecanoe
                         County Democrat, August 2,1918; 
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Daily Courier, October 11, 1918; American Legion Auxiliary, Dept. of Indiana,
                            Indiana Women in the War (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1936), I, 44. McMahan circumvented the 
                            United States
                         Armed Services' ban on female doctors by volunteering as a physician in a
                        French hospital sponsored by the Women's Overseas Hospital Association under the
                        auspices of NAWSA.
               
                  113
                  
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Daily Courier, May 17, 1918.
            
            
            In only ten years 
                        Lafayette
                     women's volunteer activity had gained considerable breadth. When Wilson and
                    Alice Stuart were taking the first steps into the civic arena with the failed drive for a police
                    matron in 1908, the core women's activities had been limited to church, club, and charity
                    work. By 1918 they had added municipal housekeeping projects, a successful school board campaign, an
                    active pursuit of women's suffrage; and they were in the thick of the homefront war effort
                    as well. Besides fundraising for the Red Cross, the liberty loan, and thrift stamp campaigns, they
                    headed the 
                        Lafayette
                     Library War Council, commissioned to round up reading material for the troop camps; and
                    they ministered directly to the doughboys and their families in groups like the War Mothers and the
                    Civilian Relief group. They led conservation efforts and registered women for war work; they were
                    even in charge of sock-knitting in six of Indiana's counties.114
            
            Was it these additional responsibilities that prevented core women from responding to their old
                    nemesis Durgan when he dropped the police matron issue right back in their laps? One of
                    Durgan's first acts upon his reelection as mayor in January 1918 was to abolish the
                    position of police matron "as unnecessary," claiming that "the work could
                    be handled through the Martha Home and charitable organizations and the results would be
                        better."115 But rather than protesting the elimination of the
                    police matron position, a central concern just five years earlier, the core women chose to ignore
                    this provocative move. Instead, the Martha Home board moved away from services to dependent poor
                    women and aimed at a different population, working women. Their war and suffrage activities still
                    allowed time to implement a new service for working women at Martha Home, day care of children for a
                    fee. Although this service did not prove popular enough to continue, the home's provision
                    of lodging for working women at an affordable price paid half of Martha Home's expenses
                    from February of 1918 to February of 1919.116
            
            It was not the pressure of war work that kept the core women from fighting to reinstate the police
                    matron: the issue had lost its importance. Its ostensible purpose, female representation on the
                    police force to aid women and children in trouble, had never been the sole concern of the core
                    women. If it had been, they would have celebrated the creation of that position in 1915 and
                    condemned its abolition in 1918. The women's disappointment in 1915 had revealed that their
                    primary goals were to secure public funds for Martha Home and to extend their influence into the
                    civic arena, not just to secure a general 
                  
                     114
                            Ibid., January 30, June 19, 1919; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, July 14, 18, August 8, September 8, 18, 1917, February 8,
                            March 26, May 28, June 13, 1918.
                  
                     115
                     
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Democrat, January 11, 1918.
                  
                     116
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, June 28, 1918; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, March 5, 1919.
               
                     municipal improvement to aid distressed women.117 Their failure brought home their lack of political power in the municipal arena. Their
                    success in getting a woman appointed to the school board in 1917 demonstrated that they had
                    redressed that lack, making the police matron reform a dead issue. For the core women, the goal of
                    women's suffrage had superseded benevolence.
            The demands of war work did not prevent 
                        Lafayette
                    's women leaders from pursuing the vote for women; their suffrage activities
                    continued full throttle in 1918. Nor did war work drain interest from the Woman's Council
                    community house project; in fact the project benefited from the solidarity women's war work
                    produced. In April 1918, Alice Stuart, Haywood, Ely, and Shoemaker approached the FKISA board again,
                    requesting financing for the women's community house from FKISA's
                    "considerable sum of money."118 But FKISA's vote to
                    spend $2,000 on liberty bonds appeared to end the matter. Six days later, however,
                    Haywood presented the FKISA board with a fait accompli, having purchased property
                    for the building with her personal note for $6,000. Haywood, who was also the Social
                    Service Council's treasurer, made no such generous action to help that underfinanced
                    organization, which was failing in its mission to support LCOS and the Martha Home. (She did loan
                    Martha Home $50 to make up a shortfall in 1917.) Her decisive move for a community house
                    was immediately backed by Alder, Shoemaker, Ely, and Ada Stuart.119 These
                    actions not only demonstrated their wholehearted support of a project unrelated to benevolence, but
                    also underlined the autocratic position core women held in the groups they led. When they lost a
                    vote, they found a way to move ahead anyway. The Democrat's "Man
                    on the Corner" reported that some of the Community House women were "bitterly
                    complaining because one or two women made the purchase without first consulting all interested
                        parties."120
            
            The Community House project was publically announced in May 1918 as a center for patriotic relief
                    work, a "War House,121 in order to obtain the required wartime
                    permission from the County Council of Defense for fundraising. Although the Council of Defense had
                    outlawed Chautauqua meetings as too frivolous and questioned the validity of the Battery C Rainbow
                    Cheer Association, it did authorize a tag day for the new Community House; over one hundred women
                    easily collected $1,500 for the building. Before the armistice 
                  
                     117
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, June 28, 1915, September 16, 1916; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, October 18, 1917.
                  
                     118
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, April 12, 1918.
                  
                     119FKISA Minutes, April 11,18,24,30,1918; Martha Home Cash Book,
                            1914-1917, Martha Home Collection. These meetings were taking place right after the third
                            liberty loan campaign and during the Red Cross parade preparations.
                  
                     120
                     
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Democrat, December 13, 1918.
                  
                     121
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, November 13, 1918.
               
                    
                    
                  LAFAYETTE'S WOMAN'S COUNCIL
                            ACQUIRED
                            THE
                            SMALLER
                            BULDING
                            SHOWN
                            IN
                            THIS
                            PHOTO
                            AS
                            THE
                            ORGINAL COMMNITY HOUSE
                            IN 1918. Courtesy, 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Historical Association
               
                     the Community House served as a meeting place for three
                    different kinds of groups: war groups, as advertised; women's groups, as first planned; and
                    welfare groups (FKISA and the Social Service Council).122
            
            As soon as the war was over, war groups and welfare groups disappeared from the Community House, and
                    it reverted to its original and true purpose. As put in 1919's tag day appeal, the
                    community house served "primarily to advance the welfare of women" by offering a
                    "valuable" meeting place for women's organizations.123 After FKISA ceded its kindergarten operations to the public school system, it was absorbed
                    by the Community House Association, which had replaced the Woman's Council and which was
                    governed by Alder, the Stuarts, Ely, Shoemaker, and Haywood.124 The core women
                    could feel a sense of accomplishment on the dissolution of FKISA; its educational services had been
                    replaced by public school classes that were an entitlement for all children. But LCOS and Martha
                    Home had dissolved with their original goals unaccomplished. LCOS vanished in 1919, the same year
                    that Martha Home announced that it would be used solely as a boardinghouse and rooming house. The
                    next year Martha Home was sold, and the Community House inherited its furniture.125 The feelings of the core women on the demise of Martha Home are not recorded, but a
                    retreat from the Home's former residents seems apparent in their report that a possible
                    future Community House outreach to working women would "distinctly" not be a
                    rescue home but was "designed as an attractive meeting place for self-respecting young
                        women."126
            
            Neither LCOS's goal to coordinate the cities' charities nor Martha Home's
                    aim to shelter and train troubled women to be self-sufficient was assumed by any other public or
                    private group. Even so, the loss of these charitable organizations raised no outcry—not
                    from the core women, their clients, or the community at large. Several circumstances helped to mask
                    their exit. A publicly funded employment bureau reduced the number of potential LCOS clients by
                    surveying regional job opportunities and thus lessening the number of unemployed transients
                    "tramping" for work. Private aid to supplement public aid for the indigent was
                    available from the Salvation Army and the Red Cross Home Service Section, which aided ex-service
                        
                  
                     122
                            Ibid., October 25, 26, 1918; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, September 20, October 26, November 1,1918; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, November 1,1918; FKISA Minutes, August 27, November 3,
                            1918.
                  
                     123
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, September 19, 1919.
                  
                     124
                            Ibid., March 5, September 26, 1919; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, September 25, 1919; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal Courier, November 23, 1920; FKISA Minutes, July 7, 12, 13, 1918.
                  
                     125Martha Home Cash Book, 1914-1919; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal Courier, November 23, 1920; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, September 25, 1919.
                  
                     126
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, September 25, 1919.
               
                     men's families. Women's volunteer
                    organizations, like the War Mothers and the Needlework Guild, took up some slack by sewing for poor
                        children.127 Full employment created by the wartime economic boom minimized
                    the need for LCOS and reduced the population served by Martha Home. The Home's base
                    population may also have been reduced by the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County Board of Children's Guardians more active involvement with dependent
                        mothers.128
            
            But prosperity, a reshuffling of private charities, and new government services did not appreciably
                    affect the lives of the most miserable, those whose situation had been improved by a municipal
                    police matron and Martha Home—suicidal women, deranged women, abused women, incorrigible
                    teens, runaway teens, the homeless and destitute.129 Without Martha Home or a
                    police matron, the only options left for these women were the jail or the poor farm, both miserable
                    places as indicated in December 1918 by the grand jury that reported conditions for women in those
                    facilities as "deplorable."130 The Community House women
                    responded by going "on record as indignant at the existing conditions and urged that the
                    proper authorities correct them as soon as possible."131 Their reaction
                    underlined the core women's increasing distance from the local needy population. As
                    managers of charitable organizations they had heard direct accounts of the clients from the
                    professional staff and from McMahan, who in her role as consulting physician had treated such
                    heartrending cases as a mother and child who were severely beaten by a drunken husband and a dazed
                    twenty-nine-year-old woman found crying on the street who did not know who she was.132 As lobbyists, the core women had fewer opportunities to hear reports about poor women
                    in trouble that might direct their actions to mediate local problems.
            
               
                        Lafayette
                     women's minimal response to the grand jury report caught the attention of the
                        Democrat's "Man on the Corner," who wrote,
                    "I notice this Community House is already on record regarding the grand jury's
                    report and I am just wondering if over activity is not the very thing that sooner or later wrecks
                    all women's societies." 
                  
                     127
                            Ibid., December 12,1916; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, February 29, March 4, 18,1919; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal Courier, January 7, 22, February 18, November 29,1920.
                  
                     128
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, November 21,1918, November 21,1919; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, December 7,1918, September 9,1919. The reduced need for
                            poor relief is indicated by the 
                                Fairfield
                             Township trustee figures—the number of public poor relief recipients
                            in 1919-1920 (801) was about half that of 1915-1916 (1520). Indiana Bulletin of
                                Charities and Corrections (September 1916), 343; ibid. (June
                            1920), 204. The Board of Children's Guardians increased its number of actions, from
                            69 in 1911-1912 to 112 in 1919-1920. 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Board of Children's Guardians Minutes, 1911-1920.
                  
                     129
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, August 8,1914, June 28, 29,1915, July 8,1916, October 27,
                            1917, March 29, June 17, July 9, 1918.
                  
                     130
                            Ibid., December 12, 1918.
                  
                            131
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     132
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, November 1, 1909; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, July 20, 1917.
               
                     He feared that "these women—the same
                    charmed circle of ladies … [who] are also in charge of practically every movement in this
                    city," would make the Community House " a nesting place for ambitious female
                    politicians," and he suggested that the Community House adopt "rules to prohibit
                    political subjects from being discussed within the building."133 But
                    his fears appear to have been unfounded. After woman suffrage was gained, the core women did not
                    work within political parties but lobbied for legislation from within the new non-partisan 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County League of Women's Voters, formed from the 
                        Lafayette
                     Franchise League. Their first action was to petition Indiana legislators to pass the
                    Sheppard-Towner bill for the protection of mothers and babies. The local League of Women Voters also
                    continued municipal housekeeping-style civic participation. When the league's first
                    president, Ada Stuart, stepped down in 1930, beautifying the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                     was singled out as her greatest achievement.134
            
            The core women, who continued to be active in both the league and the Community House Association,
                    remained rooted in their separate upper- and middle-class women's organizations where they
                    retained their leadership positions. These organizations, while not so rigidly exclusive as the
                    Monday Club, continued to underline the core women's class identity by using their status
                    to attract middle-class members. The "Stuart name and home [which] were favorably known in 
                        Lafayette
                     social circles" were recruiting tools for the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County League of Women's Voters.135 In 1921, when the
                    Indiana league held its convention in 
                        Lafayette
                    , chaired by Ada Stuart, Earlhurst was the site of a gala garden party. 
                        Lafayette
                     was described as a "royal host" where "beautiful
                    homes" dispensed "lavish hospitality" and the Country Club as
                    "famed for its links … its velvet lawns … its swimming
                        pool."136 This emphasis on wealth fits in with the fundamental role
                    that the core women's identity as women of position played in their evolution from
                    benevolent organization managers to civic activists. Their class identity opened the doors necessary
                    for their journey. Membership in women's clubs as well as leadership 
                  
                     133
                     
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Democrat, December 13, 1918. For the use of hostility,
                            such as the Man on the Corner's, to maintain the boundaries of separate spheres see
                            Kerber, "Separate Spheres, Female Worlds, Woman's Place," 27-28.
                  
                     134Jeanne Hadley, "History of 
                                Tippecanoe
                             League of Women Voters," c. 1935, typescript, League of Women Voters
                            Collection, hereafter LWV Collection (
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Historical Association, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind.); 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal Courier, February 21, August 18, December 14, 1920; 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County League of Women Voters Minutes, May 1930, 11, LWV Collection. For the
                            continuity of political style and vol-untaristic mode after the vote was achieved see Nancy
                            F. Cott, "Across the Great Divide: Women in Politics Before and After
                            1920," in Tilly and Gurin, Women, Politics, and Change, 153-76.
                  
                     135Hadley, "History of 
                                Tippecanoe
                             League of Women Voters."
                  
                     136 Indiana League of Women Voters, Third Annual Convention Program,
                            May 9-11, 1922, LWV Collection; The Woman Voter, II (No. 9, May 16, 19211,
                            1, 3, ibid.
                  
               
                     positions in franchise groups and homefront efforts were
                    dependent upon high social status. When the thirty-sixth state ratified the Nineteenth Amendment the
                    core women were represented on the front page of the Journal Courier by Ada
                    Stuart, who "was accorded the privilege of being the first local woman to hear the
                    news," and by Alder, who said, "I am very very glad indeed, but will say that
                    which the women have won after so earnest a fight is no more than just and right."137 Their interaction with important civic leaders, such as the governor and two
                    senators at the 1921 league convention, also emphasized their social standing and reinforced class
                    differences.
            The rewards for women's benevolent work did not match those they received for their work for
                    women's issues and the war effort. Although 
                        Lafayette
                    's core of women leaders tried to transfer their responsibility for the
                    faltering charitable organizations to the larger community in the federated Social Service Council,
                    their failure to do so did not energize them to greater effort, but instead marked the end of their
                    crucial support. Their decision to fund the Community House, rather than to try to save the
                    charitable associations, confirmed their commitment to a center for middle- and upper-class
                    volunteer women (with a possible outreach to respectable working women who yearned for the use of a
                    parlor) rather than to organizations devoted to the needy. This decision was reflected in a smaller
                    action of Alice Stuart's. She completely equipped the Community House's kitchen,
                    just as she had for the Industrial School two decades earlier, only this time it was to provide
                    refreshments for ladies in gloves and hats, rather than to teach kitchen skills to poor girls.138
            
            The core women's social position was the context within which they made profound changes in
                    their relationship to public life and politics. Their journey from charitable work to civic activism
                    was powered chiefly by prompting from outside sources—the Indiana Board of Charities and
                    Corrections, the Indiana Federation of Clubs, and the Indiana Franchise League. Although the
                    women's responses to these pushes were couched in rhetoric that emphasized the advantages
                    of women's unique qualities for the positions of police matron and school board member and
                    the importance of a moral city administration for women and children, this rationale was at least in
                    part a strategy to make their civic forays less controversial.139 The use of
                    this rhetoric cloaked their more practical goals—in the case of 
                  
                     137
                     
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal Courier, August 18, 1920.
                  
                     138 Stuart, "Record of Formation of Free
                            Kindergarten"; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal Courier, December 24, 1922.
                  
                     139An example of the suffragists' use of maternal images to
                            make women activists more sympathetic was their participation in Baby Week in March 1916,
                            under the joint sponsorship of the National Franchise Movement and the Federation of
                            Women's Clubs. Under the leadership of Kern and McMahan, the local effort promoted
                            infant health care with events such as an automobile parade of mothers with babies. 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Morning Journal, March 6, 8, 30, 1916.
               
                     the police matron, to stabilize their charitable organizations;
                    in the case of the mayoral election, to oust an unsympathetic administration; and in the case of the
                    school board, to take a first step toward women's suffrage.
            The women's changing activism does not seem to have been fueled initially by dissatisfaction
                    with their disabilities as women. Although they were female, they were also members of an elite,
                    connected by kinship with powerful men, and they had acted harmoniously with same-class men in the
                    management of charitable organizations. The constraints of their gender had to be revealed to them
                    in interactions with the male establishment outside of the charity arena before women's
                    issues mattered. The cooperation of male city leaders in "municipal housekeeping"
                    projects such as city beautification vanished when the women ventured into the political arena
                    (unless it was to the men's immediate advantage). Without the approval of municipal
                    officials, the core women were stopped in their tracks. Their failures to affect political
                    appointments opened their eyes to the boundaries that delineated the activities permitted to women
                    and awakened them to their powerlessness as disenfranchised women. It was this powerful realization
                    that led to the change of direction away from charitable work toward women's issues. The
                    critical turn of events not only removed charity from the central spot in the core women's
                    interests, it undermined the infrastructure that kept LCOS and Martha Home afloat. The core women
                    increasingly led the complex network of clubs, church societies, and sewing groups assembled under
                    LCOS and its Advisory Council to help the Woman's Council and Franchise League with civic
                    projects and women's rights.
            The core women's experience of failure in lobbying the male civic establishment led them to
                    regroup in single-sex organizations. Collective female experiences in the Woman's Council
                    and the Franchise League gave these women a greater sense of their own agency, as well as a sense of
                    pride and public recognition that far exceeded the rewards of managing charitable associations.
                    Their group solidarity was reinforced by shared experiences in wartime activities on the homefront,
                    and it was enhanced by the recognition their work received. The core women's actions first
                    illuminated and then shattered the boundaries that kept women out of civic and political arenas. But
                    at the same time their identity as elite women was reinforced, shutting them inside a community
                    where they were central and remote from the dependent poor whom their defunct charitable
                    organizations had served.
            
               
                        Lafayette
                    's small size makes it possible to follow individual leaders of voluntary
                    organizations in their movement from mixed-sex benevolent endeavors to single-sex organizations that
                    sought the vote. These women's history challenges the idea that Progressive Era women
                    activists journeyed triumphantly from the confines of the 
                    woman's sphere into the open civic arena, one activity leading to another, with new
                    interests crowding out older ones. The experiences of 
                        Lafayette
                    's core women reveal in detail the factors that reshaped their efforts and
                    agendas. Their commitment to women's suffrage was not simply an extension of municipal
                    housekeeping. All-women's organizations only emerged when women failed to accomplish their
                    policies in mixed-sex groups; only when separate women's groups also failed to change
                    governmental policies did women make an all-out campaign for the vote. The personal rebuffs the
                    women suffered in mixed-sex civic interactions politicized their goals, and to seek redress the
                    women volunteer leaders shifted political boundaries.
            Studies of women activists in Galveston and Tampa show that this pattern was not unique to 
                        Lafayette
                    . But few local studies trace the changing agendas and affiliations of individual elite
                    leaders of women volunteers; the case of 
                        Lafayette
                    's women leaders helps explain why increasing numbers of white upper- and
                    middle-class women began to support suffrage for women in the early 1900s.
         
         
         
            INDIANA ARCHIVES: Archival Holdings in Western Indiana
            John M. Glen, David E. Vancil, Johanna Herring, and Audra Simel∗
            
            The Indiana Archives series completes its tour of local archives in the state with a survey of
                    archival resources in western Indiana. As in previous articles, identifying the boundaries of the
                    region is largely an impressionistic exercise, subject to a variety of viewpoints. Yet highways,
                    geography, and history once again offer a useful working definition. Bounded on the north by state
                    highway 52—which parallels Interstate 65 for more than sixty miles between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Lafayette
                     before veering westward—and on the south by state highway 67, much of
                    western Indiana is marked by sweeping prairie land. Bluffs bordering the Wabash
                    River and other waterways and hills edging parts of the region give some variety to the
                    terrain.
            Also punctuating the flatness of this predominantly agricultural area are towering grain silos,
                    coalfields, and huge industrial facilities turning out products ranging from automobiles to books,
                    compact discs, and chickens. These large corporate operations and the presence of several
                    universities and colleges are the basis of the region's relatively stable economy and
                    population profile. Many residents can trace their ancestry to German and Irish families from the
                    eastern 
                        United States
                    , though numerous nineteenth-century migrants came from 
                        Illinois
                    .
            Geography and location help explain not only the economic and demographic makeup of western Indiana
                    but also historical experiences that give the region its distinctive characteristics. Known to
                    Native American tribes as the Famous Hunting Ground, or the best hunting land in Indiana territory,
                    western Indiana was the setting for military campaigns, transportation development, and missionary
                    endeavors. After a less-than-decisive clash with an Indian confederation at the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     in 1811, settlers rapidly platted the region, establishing towns at transportation
                    crossroads that encompassed at first river and highway traffic, then later attracted 
                  
                     ∗John M. Glen, general editor of the Indiana Archives
                            series, is professor of history, Ball State University, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana. Contributors to this installment of the series are David E. Vancil,
                            head of Rare Books and Special Collections, Cunningham Memorial Library, Indiana State
                            University, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana; Johanna Herring, archivist, Robert T. Ramsay, Jr., Archival Center, 
                                Wabash
                             College, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana; and Audra Simel, archive volunteer, Archives of the Sisters of 
                                Providence
                            , Saint Mary-of-the-Woods, Indiana.
               
                     canals and railroads. The proliferation of ironworks, coal
                    mines, brickyards, bottling plants, breweries, and various processing plants sparked the emergence
                    of labor organizations in the late nineteenth century, and the combination of strong unions and
                    conservative Chambers of Commerce eventually led to serious labor-management conflicts in the 1930s.
            Meanwhile, cities in western Indiana offered a study in contrasts. On the one hand, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , once known as the "
                        Paris
                     of Indiana," and 
                        Lafayette
                     were long burdened with reputations as wide-open towns where vice, crime, and
                    Prohibition-era liquor flourished. On the other hand, 
                        Crawfordsville
                     has sometimes been called the "
                        Athens
                     of Indiana" because of its strong interest in the fine arts. These towns, and
                    the region as a whole, underwent varying economic experiences in the decades after World War II:
                    deteriorating downtowns and declining populations were partially offset by urban renewal, historic
                    preservation projects, and the sustained expansion of universities in the area. Recent years have
                    witnessed some stability even as the size of corporate farms increased, subdivisions proliferated,
                    and franchise restaurants and strip malls lined major thoroughfares.
            Western Indiana's identity also derives in part from those who have lived, worked, prayed,
                    and played there. Caleb Mills, an important figure in the creation of Indiana's common
                    school system, lived in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     as the first president of Wabash College. Freed-men established the Allen Chapel
                    African Methodist Episcopal Church in 1839; it subsequently became a stopping place on the
                    Underground Railroad and the site of 
                        Terre Haute
                    's first school for blacks. Major General Lew Wallace, soldier, author, artist,
                    and statesman, lived in 
                        Covington
                     and 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . Songwriter Paul Dresser, who wrote On the Banks of the 
                            Wabash
                         Far Away; his brother Theodore Dreiser, the acclaimed early twentieth-century
                    novelist; African American teacher Jane Dabney Shackelford, who sought to illuminate black history
                    for children through The Child's Story of the Negro; and lawyer-poet Max
                    Ehrmann, author of the enormously popular poem Desiderata, were all natives of 
                        Terre Haute
                    . That city has benefited in many ways from the philanthropy of Chauncey Rose and Anton
                    "Tony" Human, Jr. Another resident became a national symbol of resistance to the
                    impact of industrial capitalism: Eugene V. Debs, union organizer, editor, state legislator, and
                    five-time Socialist party candidate for president. French Lick's Larry Bird led 
                        Terre Haute
                    's Indiana State University to the national collegiate basketball finals in
                    1979. A long list of astronauts have graduated from Purdue University in West 
                        Lafayette
                    .
            The three essays that follow suggest a variety of ways to explore western Indiana's history.
                    In addition to describing Indiana State University's rare book holdings, which include one
                    of the largest collections of dictionaries in the country, David E. Vancil explains how primary
                    materials in the archives are not only organized and microfilmed  but increasingly digitized as well. He also takes note of local history repositories in 
                        Vigo County
                    . The manuscript collections Johanna Herring describes reflect the commitment of 
                        Wabash
                     College faculty and alumni to the institution's particular educational
                    mission; these materials also take a variety of forms, from letters to cartoons and film scripts. In
                    her review of the Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     archives, Audra Simel highlights the chronological and geographical scope of the
                    resources to be found there and the relevance they have to the state's history. These
                    representative examples of archival holdings in western Indiana, along with previous surveys of
                    local and regional archives, underscore the complex nature of the Indiana past and the availability
                    of materials to understand it.
            
                    Rare Books & Special Collections, Indiana State University Library, 
                            Terre Haute
                        ; Indiana State University Archives, 
                     Terre
                            Haute; Vigo County
                   Public Library
                        Special Collections and Community Archives; 
                            Vigo County
                         Historical Society Archives
                
            Rare Books and Special Collections (RBSC) in Cunningham Memorial Library and the University Archives
                    of Indiana State University contain manuscript holdings with a broad array of emphases.
                    RBSC's eleven major collections contain primary materials either in the original form or a
                    second-generation format, such as photocopies or microfilm. In addition to the holdings in RBSC,
                    some primary materials have been acquired in microfilm and placed in the Cunningham
                    Library's Teaching Materials, Microforms, and Media (TMMM) department so that users can
                    make use of them at their convenience.
            A description of the RBSC's holdings is available via email at <librbsc
                    &#x0040;cml.indstate.edu>. RBSC also maintains a website at
                    chttpJ/cml.indstate.edu/rdindex.html>. An online and more frequently updated version of the
                    RBSC guide can be located at the RBSC home page or at
                    <http://cml.indstate.edu/rare/rare.html>.
            In the late 1960s, Indiana State University purchased 18,500 volumes from the estate of Walter Ganz,
                    a dealer in rare books who resided in Yonkers, 
                        New York
                    . Approximately 4,400 volumes were set aside for addition to the existing rare books
                    collection of about 500 volumes when the new Cunningham Memorial Library opened in 1973. Among the
                    books were manuscripts from the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, including three indentures
                    dated April 1639, May 1639, and September 1720; a disposition of annuity dated 1718; and a
                    proclamation regarding butchers and furriers signed by Maria Theresa in 1750. An early, undated
                    codex is "Septem Dollorum" (BVM #13). An interesting item found in the pre-Ganz
                    holdings is Aegidius Rousel's 1670 codex manuscript, "Compendiosa in universam
                    philosophiam  Aristotelis introductio," which was for
                    many years on extended loan to the Library of Congress. These and similar holdings have neither been
                    fully cataloged nor mounted on the Internet, but a listing of available manuscripts will soon be
                    undertaken, prepared in the PDF format in addition to HTML for easy download and printing.
            Most other manuscripts, whether locally-held originals or copies in a second-generation format, have
                    been acquired with a particular research purpose in mind. The Cordell Collection emphasizes
                    lexicographical materials in English and related languages that have been published through 1901 (a
                    large post-1901 component augments these earlier materials), and a number of primary materials have
                    also been obtained. For example, a fifteenth-century manuscript of Nonius Marcellus's
                    "De compendiosa doctrina" closely resembles a published version from the same
                    period, allowing for both bibliographical and linguistic research. Other primary materials that
                    support research in the Cordell Collection are several cartons and boxes of lexicological materials
                    from the late American lexicographer Mit-ford Matthews, including a dissertation he wrote and then
                    withdrew from consideration; a collection of definitions for a new dictionary of American regional
                    English in the form of clippings, letters, notes, and unpublished essays; a codex manuscript of
                    proper nouns, ca. 1830, from Anglo-Saxon, Scandinavian, Dutch, and other sources; an annotated
                    typescript, ca. 1961, eventually published as A Dravidian Etymological Dictionary
                    by T. Burrow and M. B. Emereau; and, from the 1930s, Simon Carleton's partially typed and
                    partially handwritten "A Dictionary of Criminal Terminology" (Carleton was a
                    technical advisor on gangster movies).
            A recent acquisition is a collection of sixty-one letters, fifty of them written by lexicographer
                    Joseph Emerson Worcester from 1850 to 1865, mostly to his brother, Samuel G. Worcester. These
                    letters discuss the politics of the time and Joseph 
                        Worcester
                    's work on his dictionaries. A letter to his publisher, Jenks, Hicking, and
                    Swan, provides a list of 150 people to whom to send 
                        Worcester
                    's answer to an attack on him by the Merriam-Webster company comparing the
                    authenticity of his work with that of Noah Webster. Other primary materials include working files
                    for twentieth-century dictionaries that were never published.
            
               
                        Warren
                     Cordell, who amassed much of the collection, kept extensive notes about collecting and
                    about his dealings with antiquarian booksellers. There are more than four file cabinets of such
                    materials that Cordell or his estate donated to Indiana State University. Very seldom do researchers
                    have an opportunity to review extensive materials about the evolution of a bibliophile's
                    interests and the growth of a collection.
            The Eugene V. Debs Collection is largely made up of primary materials, though it includes over 1,500
                    volumes of mostly scarce  books and periodicals about Debs, his
                    circle, socialism, and other "isms." There are also almost 2,500 pamphlets in the
                    collection, many of them scarce or unique and often in deteriorating condition. The emphasis of the
                    collection is correspondence, which includes more than 4,000 letters and similar communications to
                    and from Debs, his brother Theodore, and family members. The collection also includes photocopies of
                    reports held in the National Archives of spy activities against Debs beginning earlier than 1900; a
                    photocopy of a survey of racial conditions in the 
                        United States
                    , ca. 1950; and correspondence and related documents of Cecil J. Herribone, secretary of
                    the state executive committee of the Socialist party of 
                        Maine
                    .
            Most sets of microfilm of primary materials purchased to enhance research in American socialism or
                    labor history are kept in the Department of Teaching Materials, Microforms, and Media. These
                    microfilm sets include The Socialist Party of America Papers; Socialist Collections in
                        the Tamiment Library; U.S. Military Intelligence Reports: Surveillance of Radicals in the 
                            United States
                        , 1917-1941; The Strike Files of the U.S. Department of Justice; Terence Vincent
                        Powderly Papers; John William Hayes Papers; and American Federation of Labor
                        Records, Part 1: Strikes and Agreements File, 1898-1953. The Papers of Eugene V. Debs,
                    compiled from materials held in the Debs Collection and other repositories, includes not only
                    letters to and from Debs, but speeches and scrapbooks as well. Family letters, family history
                    documents, and later acquisitions to the Debs Collection number several hundred additional documents
                    of materials not found in the Papers. A locally prepared index augments the one
                    found in the published guide to the microfilm set and will soon be mounted on the internet.
            Finally, the Debs Collection contains memorabilia, postcards, photographs, and records of railroad
                    union activity in 
                        Terre Haute
                     when Debs was a young man. Approximately three hundred photographs have been
                    tentatively cataloged and are being selectively placed on the internet. Scrapbooks held locally,
                    along with a clippings file, have been put on one-of-a-kind microfilm maintained in RBSC. The
                    extremely rare records of a local railroadmen's union, of which Debs was a member, consist
                    of membership lists and holograph minutes of union meetings bound in several official notebooks.
                    These documents will be microfilmed to assure their preservation.
            Another major collection of primary materials is the Indiana Writers Project Program Collection.
                    During the Great Depression of the 1930s, the administration of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt
                    established the Works Progress Administration. Writers were employed in each state as part of the
                    Federal Writers' Project to gather information for volumes in the American Guide Series or
                    for local guides and histories. Administrative control of these projects was turned over to the
                    states in 1939, and the Indiana Federal Writers' Project became the Indiana Federal
                    Writers' Program. The resulting  work, Indiana: A Guide to the Hoosier State, was published in 1941 and reprinted in 1973. The
                    documents themselves are arranged in containers by county or general topic, resulting in
                    approximately sixty thousand pages. A microfilm set on thirty-one reels of 16mm film was prepared in
                    1991. This set was subsequently indexed by topics, towns and cities, and personal names in a 1992
                    publication entitled Indiana Federal Writers Project I Program Papers: Guide to the
                        Microfilm Edition at Indiana State University. Two large boxes of materials and several
                    cartons pertaining to the administration of the collection and other matters under Ross Lockridge
                    and succeeding project directors and a collection of IWPP photographs kept in two cartons have yet
                    to be fully processed.
            Civil War-era materials in the archives have contributed to scholarship in several published works
                    about the history and development of Indiana. One significant segment of the collection is the
                    numerous narratives of former slaves. There are two impressive groups of Civil War correspondence.
                    One consists of photocopies of three hundred letters written by John Rippetoe (originals held by
                    descendants). A smaller collection of Civil War correspondence is that of George Gegner, whose
                    letters home to his loved ones in 
                        Alexandria
                    , Indiana, are both poignant and revealing.
            The newly-received Neff-Guttridge Collection of the Lincoln Era, named for donors Ray A. Neff and
                    Leonard F. Guttridge, emphasizes primary materials and contains thousands of letters, hundreds of
                    glass negatives and tintypes from the 1860s and 1870s, over five hundred cartes des
                        visites accompanied by index materials prepared by Neff, modern photographs and negatives
                    prepared by Neff from the John Wilkes Booth diary held by the National Parks Service, investigative
                    files of interviews with descendants of individuals connected to the Lincoln assassination, and
                    microfilm sets of primary materials in the public domain dealing with the assassination of Lincoln
                    and other matters. Among the public domain primary materials available to researchers are the
                    microfilmed Turner-Baker Papers and Lincoln Assassination Files,
                    each with accompanying indexes. Additional unindexed microfilm sets include Mosby's Partisan Rangers; Forrest's Scouts; Newsom's Cavalry, 18th 
                            Tennessee
                         Cavalry; Carrington Papers; and selected reels from 1864 and 1872 of Letters Received by the Office of Adjutant General. Available in transcription only and
                    restricted in access until the publication of Neff and Guttridge's monograph on the
                    assassination and related matters are interviews, depositions, and surviving photographs in the
                    Potter Papers, acquired privately by Neff. The interviews and depositions were transcribed from
                    original materials by Andrew G. Potter, a detective employed by General Lew Wallace, who had been
                    appointed by Ulysses s. Grant to investigate suspicious deaths that occurred after the death of
                    Abraham Lincoln. The original materials were stored in a carriage house on the Wallace estate and
                    subsequently damaged  by bird droppings and fire. By the time
                    Neff received the collection, the few remaining original documents had largely deteriorated.
                    Consequently, authentication of the transcripts has been based largely on factual verification.
                    After Neff and Guttridge publish their monograph on the assassination and related matters, all the
                    documents in the Potter Collection, the investigative files, and similar one-of-a-kind documentation
                    will be available to researchers.
            The Rare Books Collection and Indiana Collection consist primarily of monographic materials. However,
                    the Rare Books Collection contains one notable body of correspondence and related material donated
                    by Gilbert Coble concerning his friend, the acclaimed regional writer Jesse Stuart (1907-1984), poet
                    laureate of 
                        Kentucky
                    . The correspondence and personal photographs provide a rare glimpse of a friendship
                    over many years. Also included in the collection are books inscribed by Stuart to Coble.
            In addition to a copy of the Indiana Sesquicentennial Manuscript Project, which contains 350 sets of
                    materials of many types pertaining to the history of the state, the Indiana Collection holds several
                    other groups of primary materials. For example, there is correspondence between businessman and
                    benefactor Chauncey Rose and Charles R. Peddle, as well as a set of Peddle's letters.
                    Although there is no great depth to these holdings, there is an occasional individual letter in the
                    Indiana Collection and the Rare Books Collection of a literary figure, just as there are sometimes
                    inscriptions of sentiments by notable persons in books contained in these two collections. More
                    extensive is the John T. Myers Congressional Collection. Myers, who represented his congressional
                    district from 1966 to 1996, has donated letters, photographs, memoranda, and campaign materials.
            The RBSC is repository for a number of organizations. The department receives the official records or
                    publications of the National Association for the Education of Young Children; the National
                    Association of Early Childhood Teacher Educators; and The Mystery Fancier, a
                    magazine published in 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana. The RBSC will host the records of Organization Mondiale pour
                    L'Education Prescolaire (World Organization for Early Childhood Education) when its records
                    are transferred from the Indiana State University School of Education. The RBSC also houses
                    photocopies of the musical compositions of Dr. Paul Hagan, an alumnus and supporter of the
                    university.
            As is the case with most university archives, the Indiana State University Archives emphasizes
                    records pertaining to the institution. It also contains the papers of some its faculty and
                    administrators, including all past presidents from W. W. Parsons onward, as well as the Martin
                    Photographic Collection, spanning the years 1922-1972 with thirty thousand prints and negatives of
                    events at Indiana State University. About eight thousand of these prints have been cataloged in a
                    searchable database.
            
            A few blocks from Indiana State University are two institutions that contain primary holdings with a
                    local or regional emphasis. The 
                        Vigo County
                     Public Library contains useful holdings in its Special Collections and Community
                    Archives units. Special Collections focuses on local history and genealogy, with materials appearing
                    in many formats. There are microfilmed versions of WPA indexes, census materials, courthouse
                    records, early local newspapers, and similar materials. Individuals with internet access may get an
                    overview of the Special Collections Department's emphases by accessing the following URL:
                    <http://vaxl.vigo.lib.in.us/spc/spcl.htm>. The Community Archives includes literary
                    manuscripts by writers such as Jane Dabney Shackelford; African American materials, including the
                    records of the Allen Chapel AME Church; Civil War letters and diaries, as well as similar materials
                    from the Spanish-American War, World War I, and World War II; local business records; minutes of
                    local organizations; many thousands of photographs of historical and social importance; oral history
                    audiotapes and transcripts; and photographs and related materials about local luminaries such as
                    Debs, Max Ehrmann, and Ida Husted Harper. Internet access to information about Community Archives
                    materials is possible from the library home page: <http://vaxl.vigo.lib.in.us> or from
                    a link on the Special Collections Department home page.
            The 
                        Vigo County
                     Historical Society contains fewer materials than the 
                        Vigo County
                     Public Library and is more concerned with artifact preservation, yet the society has
                    both photograph and information files. The latter are concerned with selected prominent persons,
                    businesses, and organizations, and are arranged by decade. Documents contained in the folders are a
                    combination of factual information and original materials.
            
                    Robert T. Ramsay, Jr., Archival Center, 
                            Wabash
                         College, 
                            Crawfordsville
                        
               
                
            Letters in the archives of 
                        Wabash
                     College record that, only ten years after the first white settler arrived in 
                        Montgomery
                     County, plans were being made to build a classical and English high school that would
                    become a college as soon as the "wants of the country demand." On November 21,
                    1832, the first handwritten entry was made in the Board of Trustees Minute Book, and the
                    soon-to-be-named 
                        Wabash
                     College entered Hoosier history. The first faculty meeting occurred in 1834, and both
                    sets of minute books are complete, indexed, and have served as a nucleus for the college archives
                    from that beginning. Administrative records; faculty, staff, and student records and papers; college
                    publications; biographical material on students, faculty, and alumni; and nonprint archival
                    materials are all now housed in the Robert T. Ramsay, Jr., Archival Center,  along with special collections, a small rare books collection, and
                    nineteenth-century runs of periodicals.
            Founded by Presbyterian ministers and laymen, 
                        Wabash
                     is an independent small liberal arts college for men. Many of the founders came to the
                        Wabash Valley as missionaries while still in their twenties. Most were from
                    established and educated families in the northeastern 
                        United States
                    . Their mission was to educate teachers and preachers who would then
                    "civilize" this newly settled area of the "Far West." Today the
                    college's mission has been broadened to stress educating leaders for a changing world.
            Materials in the college archives document early higher education in this region, among other
                    subjects. Correspondence, diaries, publications, and even ephemera provide primary research sources
                    for a wide range of issues confronting pioneers and the eastern establishment. Letters, sermons,
                    speeches, and college records present a variety of viewpoints on economic, political, social,
                    religious, cultural, and other topics of the day. Two extensive collections of correspondence,
                    pictures, and artifacts are particularly significant because they begin with the two most important
                    founders, E.O. Hovey and James Thomson, and because of their depth and range (from the founding
                    through the early twentieth century).
            
               Hovey Collection. Educated at Dartmouth and Andover, Edmund Otis Hovey was sent to
                    Indiana from 
                        Vermont
                     by the American Home Missionary Society in 1831 with his bride, Mary Carter (whose
                    father had been principal of the Peacham Academy). E. 0. was a founder, trustee, second faculty
                    member, and mainstay at 
                        Wabash
                     College from 1832 to 1877. His correspondence begins with his college days,
                    Mary's with the brief period before their marriage, and both continue through the late
                    nineteenth century. The collection includes letters to and from family mainly in New 
                        England
                    , former classmates of E. O.'s who were serving as home missionaries, and
                    members of the college community. Subjects range from a detailed "walk-through" of
                    the Hoveys' first cabin in 
                        Fountain
                     County to political and religious meetings in 
                        Vermont
                    , weddings and funerals, descriptions of prairie flowers and "heathen"
                    neighbors, routes and hazards of early travel west, reports on crops in the east and recession in
                    Indiana, bonnet styles and the price of skillets, health and disease, caving in Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    , education of girls, social life, fundraising, and trips east. E. O. Hovey collected
                    and kept intact the early college records. His son Horace (
                        Wabash
                     1853) and grandson E. Otis, both geologists, later added archival material to this
                    collection.
            
               Thomson-Ristine Collection. The meeting to found the college was held in the home
                    of James Thomson, minister of the local Presbyterian church in 1832 and trustee until 1856. His
                    brother John Steele Thomson was also a founder, trustee, and faculty member; brother Alexander was
                    trustee and treasurer; and brother Samuel Steele  Thomson
                    graduated with the second class and joined the faculty. Henry Ristine settled in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     in 1823, was a prominent citizen, served in the legislature, and owned the local tavern
                    hotel. His son, Ben T., read law and entered into practice with Alexander Thomson. Ben T.
                    Ristine's sons began the long line of Ristine men who have attended Wabash. Family papers
                    and memorabilia from this earlier period to the present have been given to the college by Richard O.
                    Ristine, a descendant of the Thomsons and Ristines, former lieutenant governor of Indiana, and
                    trustee emeritus of the college. Included are family letters, school papers, receipts, notes, and
                    legal documents including deeds, land transactions, and routine business papers for the law firm,
                    Civil War letters, speech drafts, household accounts, and other miscellaneous manuscript materials
                    that describe a century of everyday and business life for two prominent Hoosier families, as well as
                    for 
                        Montgomery
                     County.
            
               Elston-Mills-Beemer Collection. The first Isaac Compton Elston (of three) was an
                    early prominent businessman in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . He established the first bank, and bought, platted, and sold the land to create 
                        Michigan
                     City. His son and grandson were also successful bankers and businessmen, who generously
                    supported the college. Their papers, including those for 
                        Michigan
                     City transactions, came to the college through Gordon Beemer, who married the third I.
                    C. Elston's widow after Beerner's first wife, Julia, died. The latter was the
                    granddaughter of Caleb Mills, first principal and teacher of the college and known as the father of
                    Indiana public school education. This collection also includes Mills family papers, pictures, and
                    artifacts, including Caleb Mills's pocket diaries of his travels as superintendent of
                    education for Indiana in the 1850s.
            In addition to these larger collections, the archives holds several smaller collections of interest.
            
               Horsethief Detective Association. Minute books, letters, artifacts, and other
                    documents record the origins of this national organization during the mid-1800s in 
                        Montgomery
                     County.
            
               Oral History Project: 
                            Wabash
                         College and the Black Experience; 
                            Crawfordsville
                         and the Black Experience. Forty-eight interviews are recorded on 116 audio
                    tapes and transcribed in over 1,700 pages of text to document the experiences of both the college
                    and 
                        Crawfordsville
                     as they passed through the turbulent years of integration in American higher education.
                    Interviewees were asked for information on family origins, so the collection is also useful in
                    tracing the rise of a black community, churches, schooling, work opportunities, and social life in
                    the area.
            
               Dave Gerard Cartoon Collection. Creator of the internationally syndicated cartoon
                    strips "Citizen Smith and "Willyum," Dave Gerard is a 
                        Crawfordsville
                     native, 
                        Wabash
                     graduate (1931), former mayor, and a distinguished member of the "Sugar Crick
                    School of Art." First published in Colliers, Saturday Evening Post, and
                        
                    
                  "Here's a coincidence, dear. George 
                                Washington
                             had trouble here, too!": Courtesy, Robert T. Ramsay, Jr., Archival
                            Center, Lilly Library, 
                                Wabash
                             College, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana
               
                    American, Gerard began a weekly color cartoon, "Viewpoint," for
                        Colliers in 1946. "Willyum" ran from 1953 to 1966 and was
                    followed by "Citizen Smith," whom Gerard "retired" in 1984. His
                    archive includes artwork, proof sheets, printing blocks, and other material related to his
                    fifty-plus-year career as a cartoonist.
            
               Lawrence Sanders Collection. Author of The Anderson Tapes (1970),
                    Lawrence Sanders was a 1940 
                        Wabash
                     alumnus. Described as "a master of suspense," Sanders was the creator
                    of a series of popular novels featuring detective Arch McNally and also a "Deadly
                    Sins" series with 
                        New York
                     police captain, Edward X. Delany, as the hero.
            
               Ted Steeg Productions Archive. A native of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Ted Steeg graduated from 
                        Wabash
                     College in 1952. After working as a film and television writer/director, he set up
                    Steeg Productions in 1964. Over the next thirty-five years his 
                        New York
                     City firm wrote, directed, and produced over three hundred films, videos, and
                    audiovisual programs. Among the firm's clients and venues were World's Fair
                    Exhibit films for Kodak and United Technologies, IBM, Citicorp, Mobil, NCR, AT&T, General
                    Electric, Business Week, Newsweek, and Xerox. Shows prepared for commercial and educational
                    television include "Experiment in Allegheny" on civic reform; "Invitation
                    to  Dance" for PBS; and "Consecration of the
                    House" for the dedication of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    's Heinz Hall for the Performing Arts. Steeg's firm produced a
                    much-acclaimed documentary series, "Vision, U.S.A.," for the US. State Department.
                    In 1997, the company had a major role in creating exhibits for the George Bush Presidential Library
                    in 
                        Texas
                    . The archive includes scripts, proposals, budgets, information on corporate clients,
                    films, and videos.
            The 
                        Wabash
                     College archives is also a rich source for letters and diaries written during the Civil
                    War and later wars. One of the finest examples is the often-quoted diary of Henry Campbell,
                    "Three Years in the Saddle," which contains his hand-colored sketches of 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Georgia
                     battles between 1863 and 1865. The archives is also a good source of material on the
                    history of college athletics in the Midwest, single-sex education vs. coeducation issues, scientific
                    developments and the teaching of science in the nineteenth century, and the role played by the
                    Presbyterian Church and home missionary groups in settling and educating the "Far
                    West."
            
                    Archives of the Sisters of 
                            Providence
                        , Saint Mary-of-the-Woods, Indiana
                
            From the time of their initial settlement near 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1840, the Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     have had a significant impact on the history of Indiana. The archives of this
                    congregation hold a number of important keys for researchers and students of the state's
                    history.
            Founded in Ruillé, 
                        France
                    , in 1806, the Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     first came to Indiana led by Mother Theodore Guerin (now a candidate for sainthood) to
                    establish a novitiate and motherhouse, teach, and care for the sick poor in the diocese of 
                        Vincennes
                    , encompassing virtually all of Indiana. Over the years, the Sisters established schools
                    and orphanages and served in parishes in Indiana, across the 
                        United States
                    , and overseas. From 
                        Jasper
                    , Indiana, to 
                  Chicago, Illinois
               , to Peru, 
                        China
                    , and Taiwan, the Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     have served as educators, administrators, health care workers, and advocates of the
                    poor and needy. The main focus of the congregation has been education as well as parish and charity
                    work. Their archives document the congregation's history and its influence among the lay
                    population during the past one hundred and sixty years. The materials also help illuminate certain
                    national and international issues.
            The overall collection is about nine hundred linear feet and is divided into thirteen record groups.
                    The most valuable to both researchers and the Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     are the ministry, foundation, and membership files.
            The Ministry record group extends some thirty linear feet and covers the period from 1862 to the
                    present. The collection is divided into the areas of education, parish and diocesan work, health
                    care and gerontology, international missions, schools and establishments,  war-related service, music, and art. The areas that document education,
                    schools, and parishes include information on parish life, school records, and listings of Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     members who have ministered in 
                  Indianapolis, Terre Haute, Jasper, Fort Wayne, Madison, Evansville
               , outside the state, and internationally. Many requests are
                    processed from former students or colleagues of the Sisters, often providing valuable clues for
                    genealogies and town histories. The educational records also contain early examinations, textbooks,
                    lists of teachers and their academic qualifications, and early correspondence with universities.
            The international missions area of the Ministry record group begins in 1920 with the
                    Sisters' first entrance into missionary work in 
                        China
                    . The Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     were the first American Catholic congregation of women to send missionaries to 
                        China
                    . They established the Hua Mei School, a middle school that eventually evolved into 
                        Providence
                     University, now with over five thousand students in Taiwan. The Sisters were held
                    captive as prisoners of war during World War II, and there are a number of interesting records from
                    this period. Other material in the international missions area consists of war claims, articles,
                    diaries and journals of Sisters, letters, and references in the form of textbooks, photographs,
                    movie reels, and audio and video cassettes, as well as artifacts from the missions.
            A small but important area of the Ministry group documents war-related service covering various
                    periods between 1861 and 1997. In 1861, a military hospital created in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was placed under the supervision of the Sisters of 
                        Providence
                    . Although the Sisters' hospital work ended in 1871, it played a vital role
                    during the Civil War, a role recently recognized at the Civil War Museum under the Soldiers and
                    Sailors Monument in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The Sisters were also instrumental in establishing an emergency hospital at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1862. More recently, Sister Josephine Bryan served an eighteen-month tour-of-duty in 
                        Vietnam
                    , working for Catholic Relief Services in an orphanage. Finally, the Ministry record
                    group houses a number of important artifacts, including letters from soldiers, articles, booklets,
                    hospital registers, photographs, drawings, and inventories.
            The Foundation record group occupies approximately twenty-three linear feet and covers a time span
                    from 1860 to 1890. Most items date back to the earliest history of the Sisters and were recovered
                    from a fire in 1889 that destroyed a number of early records. The collection contains many personal
                    articles of Mother Theodore Guerin and the five Sisters who accompanied her to Indiana, including
                    the Le Fer sisters, as well as records concerning the Le Fer family in 
                        France
                     and prominent families in southern Indiana. Information about early clergy in the state
                    is also located here. The Foundation record group holds a number of historical pieces such as
                    publications, convent penances, historical drawings, and early artifacts. There are items related to
                    Ruillé, 
                        France
                    , and its connections with Indiana's 
                    Sisters of 
                        Providence
                    ; these include drawings, photographs, daguerreotypes, special relics, and mementos such
                    as hair and cloth from important church and congregational figures. There are also valuable personal
                    papers of members such as Mother Theodore Guerin and the Le Fer sisters, and correspondence with
                    clergy who have shaped the Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     ministry throughout the years. And the Foundation group retains records related to the
                    1998 designation by Pope John Paul II of Mother Theodore Guerin as "blessed" and
                    the continuing movement to have her recognized as a saint.
            The Membership record group contains thorough documentation about past and present members of the
                    Sisters of 
                        Providence
                    . Information and artifacts from the various jubilee celebrations that the congregation
                    has held over the course of its 160-year history are included in this collection, as well as copies
                    of community publications, chronicles, professional papers, and directories from the Sisters of 
                        Providence
                    . Associated with this collection are about thirty oral history interviews with Sisters,
                    all of which have been recorded since 1990 and transcribed.
            The final record group of note for those with a special interest in Indiana history is the Non-SP
                    Collection, which holds a small cross-section of sources and artifacts concerning the general public
                    and its relation to the Sisters. Among these records are genealogies from the Thralls family, the
                    Martin family, and the locally famous Bailly family of northwestern Indiana, in particular Olga Mae
                    Schiemann (a member of this family who later became a Sister of Providence); artifacts, papers, and
                    correspondence from popes, bishops, and other clergy; and relics from such individuals. The non-SP
                    group also houses information concerning community organizations and publications that concern the
                    Sisters. This record group would also be of some value to anyone interested in the work of Bishops
                    Somes and Wicke of Indiana.
            The archives of the Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     reveal the numerous connections this religious subculture has had with the public. The
                    Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     have been in Indiana since 1840 and have left their mark on the history of the state,
                    the nation, and the world. Catholic schools, parishes, and the women religious workers who have
                    staffed these institutions helped shape the character of many citizens of Indiana.1
            
            
               
                  1The in-house finding guide to the Sisters of 
                            Providence
                         archives has not been published, but the following titles will prove helpful to
                        interested researchers: Mary Borromeo 
                            Brown
                        , History of the Sisters of 
                                Providence
                            
                  , Volume I (
                            New York
                        , 1949); Eugenia Logan, History of the Sisters of Prouidence,
                        Volume II (
                            Terre Haute
                        , Ind., 1978); Mary Roger Madden, The Path Marked Out: History of the
                            Sisters of Prouidence, Volume III (Saint Mary-of-the-Woods, Ind., 1991). In addition,
                        see Journals and Letters of Mother Theodore Guerin, ed. Mary Theodosia (Saint
                        Mary-of-the-Woods, Ind., 1978). The archives may be contacted via e-mail at <ekelley
                        @ spsmw.org>.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Pride and Protest: The Novel in Indiana. By Jeanette Vanausdall. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1999. Pp. xviii, 169. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $27.95.)
            Literary historians advance various theories to account for the "disproportionate number of
                    best-sellers" produced by Indiana novelists in the state's "golden
                    age," circa 1870-1920. Jeanette Vanausdall argues that the phenomenon was more regional
                    than local, more national than midwestern. "By trying … to set themselves apart,
                    Hoosiers have ignored what makes them a part of the greater glory of American literature"
                    (p. xvii). Her aim, then, is to reveal "the major schools, movements, or genres in American
                    literature to which Hoosier [novelists] have contributed" (p. ix). Vanausdall offers not so
                    much deep analysis as a straightforward and serviceable guide. In a volume of modest length,
                    moreover, her coverage is surprisingly thorough.
            Vanausdall shows how Indiana writers, both native and immigrant, have brought Indiana settings,
                    character types, and themes to a national audience. In chapter one, "Moral
                    Geography," she examines a familiar concept: that place in part shapes identity. From
                    Edward Eggleston, Eunice Beecher (wife of Henry Ward Beecher), and Baynard Rush Hall, through George 
                        Barr
                     McCutcheon and Gene Stratton-Porter, nature itself was often seen as author of the
                    mid-western soul. Early Indiana settlers, awed by enveloping forests, came to feel an ambivalence to
                    nature, which appeared to them unwilling to be tamed. "The very aspects of wilderness that
                    appealed to the pioneer spirit in man were the ones man strove to correct'' (p. 3). Thus, frontiersmen often regarded as naive those who would
                    presume to enlighten them. Indeed, they developed a fierce anti-intellectualism. In The
                        Hoosier School-Master (1871) Eggleston got the yokel down pat, even as he created something
                    more complex than a wily rube.
            If "the Indiana Romancers" of chapter three (Charles Major, Lew Wallace,
                    McCutcheon, Meredith Nicholson, Stratton-Porter, et al.) achieved a degree of
                    realism, Vanausdall is well aware of an even greater presence of antirealist sentimentalism in their
                    work.
            Chapter four, "The Mark of the Machine," distinguishes "two
                    Indianas" or points of view: Tarkington's "gentle" realism and
                    Dreiser's brooding sense of life as a struggle. Tarkington's novels, even his
                    Pulitzer Prize-winning The Magnificent Ambersons (1918) and Alice
                        Adams (1920, now seem dated, his social criticism shallow and sentimental. But Dreiser, in
                    his unyielding naturalism, confronted the dark possibility that man is fated to eternal defeat. Sister Carrie (1900), Jennie Gerhardt (1911), and An American Tragedy (1925) are representative in this respect. Many critics now
                    consider Dreiser "the state's one literary lion" (p. 77) of the golden
                    age.
            
            Vanausdall keeps her focus on the Hoosier novel's fidelity to the broad themes of American
                    literature. She examines how, for example, its rural and farm fiction connects with the
                    psychological and economic depression "between the wars." Her discussion of LeRoy
                    MacLeod's The Years of Peace, set in post-
                        Appomattox
                     years, reveals how the soul can be numbed by the endless repetition of seasons, chores,
                    and foreclosures, a theme that surely resonated in the American 1930s. Here she traces, in the
                    relationship of Tyler and Evaline Peck, a shredding of the marital bond over years of spiritual
                    paralysis.
            In "Return to Myth," chapter five, Vanausdall takes up the loss of Edenic innocence
                    as it surfaces in Ross Lockridge's Raintree County. This novel's
                    astounding complexity of theme and narrative fairly defies summation. Yet Vanausdall's
                    discussion achieves clarity. She also looks for "what I might tell someone from 
                        Oklahoma
                     or 
                        Connecticut
                     about Indiana literature that might inspire that person to read some of it"
                    (p. ix).
            The book is not without editorial faux pas. Indexed titles beginning with articles
                    are introduced, not followed, by A and The. Inconsistent inclusion of publication
                    dates following first mention of titles will bother the serious student. (An introductory chronology
                    might help.) The bibliography is designed more as a narrative than as an annotated document, its
                    tone oddly hortatory in a function that is normally utilitarian.
            But overall Pride and Protest stands as a worthy contribution to Indiana history
                    and earns a place on the student's shelf.
            EDWARD L. SHAUGHNESSY, Edna R. Cooper Professor of English
                    emeritus at 
                        Butler
                     University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is author of two books on Eugene O'Neill.
         
         
            
               My Father, Daniel 
                            Boone
                        : The Draper Interviews with Nathan 
                            Boone
                        . Edited by Neal O. Hammon. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1999. Pp. xi, 176. Maps, illustrations, appendices, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $19.00.)
            Daniel Boone has been an international celebrity for over two hundred years. Ever since John Filson
                    published The Adventures of Col. Daniel Boon in 1784, this able frontiersman has
                    intrigued people around the world. Rather than waning, that interest is perhaps growing. Boone has
                    been the subject of books and television specials in recent years. John Mack Faragher's
                    biography of 
                        Boone
                     and two Lyman Draper manuscripts edited by Ted 
                        Franklin
                     Belue have contributed substantially to our knowledge and understanding of this
                    frontier icon. These and Filson's 
                        Boone
                     biography have something in common, something crucial to any biography, that when done
                    well, and grounded in fact, are invaluable to those works and in preserving biographical and
                    historical information. That common thread is oral  history.
                    Filson interviewed Daniel 
                        Boone
                     himself. Historian and collector Draper interviewed people who knew 
                        Boone
                    , including close family members. Faragher and other biographers have relied greatly on
                    interviews conducted or collected by Draper about 
                        Boone
                    .
            One of the most important interviews concerning the famous frontiersman was conducted by Draper with 
                        Boone
                    's youngest son Nathan in 1851. It is a major source for any biographical
                    treatment of 
                        Boone
                     and is frequently cited. A part of the Draper Manuscripts at the State Historical
                    Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , the interview has been available to researchers for many years, primarily through the
                    microfilm edition of that collection, but not to the general public. That has been rectified by
                    editor Neal O. Hammon in My Father, Daniel 
                            Boone
                        . Following a good introduction by Nelson L. Dawson that places Draper and
                    Nathan 
                        Boone
                     in perspective and tells how this interview came about, Hammon uses a light editing
                    touch in allowing the interview to inform the reader about Daniel 
                        Boone
                     as remembered by his son Nathan. Hammon separates the interview into chapters that
                    follow 
                        Boone
                    's life in a chronological manner. He also includes genealogical information on
                    the Boone family. Draper's interview of Nathan 
                        Boone
                     touched on all the major periods of his famous father's life. Given the nature
                    of oral histories and also some of the questions asked, 
                        Boone
                     imparted much information about himself and his activities as well. In fact, one wishes
                    that Draper had followed up his interview by including a history of Nathan 
                        Boone
                    's eventful life. Interviews such as this one offer a wealth of information
                    that often is not recorded in letters and diaries. This is especially true of frontiersmen like the
                    Boones, because they did not keep diaries and wrote few letters. The oral tradition of chronicling
                    individual and family history was still a standard part of society at that time, as is evident by
                    the amazing level of detail that 
                        Boone
                     is able to recall about his father.
            Editing such sources presents a number of challenges. Checking the information presents a daunting
                    task, and unverifiable claims and factual errors that 
                        Boone
                     made in talking with Draper, or that Draper perhaps made in writing down what Boone
                    said, should be noted. For example, Dr. Thomas Walker entered 
                        Kentucky
                     through the 
                        Cumberland Gap
                     in 1750, not 1760 (p. 15); Nathan 
                        Boone
                     acted as a guide for William Clark in traveling to Fire 
                        Prairie
                     to build Fort Osage in 1808, not 1805 (p. 126); and the biographical information 
                        Boone
                     gives about Major William Christy contains significant errors (p. 130). More notes
                    identifying people, places, and events would have been helpful.
            These concerns are minor, however, in relation to the importance and convenience of having such a
                    significant source in print. Reading My Father, Daniel 
                            Boone
                        
                whets the appetite to read more about this famous man and the times in which
                    he lived. It is tragic that Daniel 
                        Boone
                    's own dictated memoir of his life was destroyed  in an accident (p. 135) and that its replacement was never finished and
                    has since disappeared (p. 136). These losses make Draper's interview with Nathan 
                        Boone
                     even more important. Nathan 
                        Boone
                     told Draper that in mid-life his father "read considerably in history, which
                    was his favorite reading" (p. 139). One must believe that he would have enjoyed reading his
                    own history as recorded in My Father, Daniel 
                            Boone
                        .
            
            JAMES J. HOLMBERG, curator of special collections at The
                    Filson Club Historical Society, 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , is editing a collection of explorer
                    William Clark's letters.
         
         
            
               Party Spirit in a Frontier Republic: Democratic Politics in 
                            Ohio
                        , 1793-1821. By Donald J. Ratcliffe. (
                        Columbus
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     State University Press, 1998. Pp. xii, 336. Maps, notes, select bibliography, index.
                    Clothbound, $52.50; paperbound, $22.95.)
            In Party Spirit in a Frontier Republic, Donald J. Ratcliffe argues that partisans
                    organized political parties in 
                        Ohio
                     long before the age of Jackson. Many historians today dismiss the notion of a First
                    Party System because Americans of the early republic abhorred the idea, and voting patterns did not
                    display the organization and voter loyalty needed to qualify factions as true parties. But Ratcliffe
                    contends that although factions did not display the sophistication of the system that emerged in the
                    1830s, the 1790s and early 1800s represent a time of transition from old to new. Bickering over the
                    legitimacy of parties reveals that partisan politics emerged very early, as Americans strove to turn
                    the notion of the sovereignty of the people into reality. A newly emerging elite may have wished the
                    people would continue to defer to leaders, but politicians found themselves bowing to public opinion
                    as the people took the rhetoric of the Revolution to heart.
            Since 
                        Ohio
                     was a territory under the supervision of federal appointees, partisanship had little
                    chance to flourish there. Isolated settlers found it difficult to organize, but they still managed
                    to express concern about national issues such as taxation and foreign policy. Jefferson's
                    election all but destroyed the patronage networks of 
                        Ohio
                    's Federalists as Republicans who advocated statehood appealed to the public
                    for support. The legislature broadened the voting franchise and expanded the number of polling
                    places, while leaders on both sides held public meetings and attempted to organize voters. Under 
                        Ohio
                    's new constitution, all state offices were filled through the electoral
                    process, and the legislature demanded that most local offices be filled through direct elections.
                    Republicans attempted to coordinate efforts to organize partisanship during the national election in
                    1804. They continued to dominate state offices, but Federalists mounted a spirited defense at the
                    county level. Republicans organized corresponding societies to contest local battles. Hopes and
                    fears generated in the 1790s by the course of revolution in 
                        France
                     provide a  continuing theme as Ratcliffe traces the
                    interactions between the two parties through war, economic expansion, and economic collapse. The
                    epilogue demonstrates how earlier partisan fights affected the rise of the Second Party System.
            Ratcliffe himself proudly labels his work old-fashioned political history. The papers of political
                    leaders, voting records, and newspapers dominate his list of sources. Disappointingly, many
                    footnotes in support of important conclusions about voting behavior refer readers to the
                    author's earlier journal publications rather than citing the primary sources themselves.
                    The book is divided into eight chapters, and most of them cover the events of just a few years. Thus
                    the argument is broken down into very small parts with many turning points, and the entire arc is
                    not always clear. Despite these quibbles, Party Spirit in a Frontier Republic is
                    an important book. It will provide food for thought to those interested in the origins of the
                    two-party system in the 
                        United States
                    . But the freshest aspect is the way Ratcliffe demonstrates how national issues often
                    took center stage in the politics of a region that many historians continue to characterize as an
                    isolated wilderness.
            KIM M. GRUENWALD, assistant professor of history at 
                        Kent
                     State University, 
                  Kent, Ohio
               , is author of "Marietta's
                    Example of a Settlement Pattern in the 
                        Ohio
                     Country: A Reinterpretation," 
                  
                            Ohio
                         History (1996). She is currently working on Ohio Valley
                    commercial networks in the early republic.
         
         
            
               The 
                            St. Louis
                         Veiled Prophet Celebration: Power on Parade, 1877-1995. By Thomas M. Spencer. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 2000. Pp. xv, 204. Illustrations, tables, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            In the wake of the railroad strike of 1877, elite 
                        St. Louis
                     residents established the Veiled Prophet organization. Patterned after 
                        New Orleans
                     carnival societies, the group sponsored parades, balls, and fairs, designed to bolster
                    their authority and to advertise the city's advantages. In The 
                            St. Louis
                         Veiled Prophet Celebration, Thomas M. Spencer examines the shifting goals and
                    functions of the celebration over the span of more than a century. Changes in the parade and related
                    events, he argues, reflected important developments in the history of 
                        St. Louis
                    .
            According to 
                        Spencer
                    , elite residents created the organization in order to reestablish control over the
                    streets after the railroad strike. Appropriating carnival symbols, the group established an annual
                    parade, complete with a mysterious "veiled prophet," and used this ritual as a
                    "show of physical power" (p. 3) to cow the working class. After the crisis of the
                    late 1870s passed, the parade served to attract farmers to the city's agricultural fair,
                    although it remained an unmistakable expression of upper-class authority and solidarity.  Gradually, the annual event became more explicitly didactic, as members
                    of the Veiled Prophet organization designed parade floats that would inculcate
                    "proper" values among the working class and teach the public about the
                    city's glorious past.
            Over the course of the twentieth century the celebration changed dramatically. The moral and
                    educational lessons faded, and the parade became increasingly commercialized and
                    "escapist." The turmoil of the late 1960s, however, transformed 
                        St. Louis
                     and remade the annual Veiled Prophet parade and ball, according to 
                        Spencer
                    . ACTION, a small civil rights group, used the techniques of "guerrilla street
                    theater" to expose the exclusive and implicitly racist nature of the Veiled Prophet
                    organization. ACTION proved particularly effective in challenging the use of public funds to help
                    underwrite the Veiled Prophet ball and parade. Stung by the negative publicity, the organization
                    grudgingly redefined its annual events, making them more inclusive. By the 1980s, its celebrations
                    began to focus on "pure entertainment" (p. 168), shedding their hegemonic
                    functions and becoming a popular Fourth of July fair that brought 
                        St. Louis
                    's citizens together.
            Drawing mainly from newspaper descriptions of annual parades and balls, 
                        Spencer
                     relies on traditional methods, though he makes effective use of oral history in his
                    discussion of recent developments. He borrows sparingly from theoretical perspectives and the
                    techniques of the new cultural history. 
                        Spencer
                     largely tells his story through the eyes of local newspaper editors, most of whom
                    belonged to the Veiled Prophet organization. The voices of working-class and immigrant residents
                    receive modest attention, and the impact of large-scale changes, such as the crumbling economy of
                    the city, are not discussed. Furthermore, many scholars would quibble with 
                        Spencer
                    's assertion that "pure entertainment" is without hegemonic
                    influences. But even if 
                        Spencer
                     stops short of exploring the undertones of battles over cultural authority and regional
                    identity, he nonetheless provides an interesting and well-written study of changing elite notions of
                    civic order in a major midwestern city.
            JEFFREY S. ADLER teaches urban history at the University
                    of 
                  Florida, Gainesville
               , and is the author of Yankee Merchants and
                        the Making of the Urban West: The Rise and Fall of Antebellum 
                            St. Louis
                        . He has written numerous articles on crime in 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    , and he is completing a book-length study of homicide in 
                        Chicago
                     from 1875 to 1920.
         
         
            
               Burr, 
                            Hamilton
                        , and Jefferson: A Study in Character. By Roger G. Kennedy. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 2000. Pp. xix, 476. Illustrations, appendix, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $30.00.)
            For more than three decades historiography of the founding era has been shaped by studies of
                    ideology. Now, Roger G. Kennedy, who after varied tours of duty as soldier, lawyer, congressional
                    candidate,  television journalist, civil servant, banker,
                    foundation director, and public historian somehow retains the energy to remain a prolific (and
                    excellent) writer, makes a case for the importance of personality and personal politics in the
                    shaping of the nation. What results is an engaging and trenchant but ultimately frustrating book.
            Kennedy makes his bias explicit: he aims "to restore Aaron Burr to the Pantheon of the
                    Founders" (p. 20). "Though unquestionably a failure" (p. xvii), this
                    underappreciated soldier, lawyer, senator, and vice president, Kennedy writes, functions
                    "as a sort of Black Hole, largely invisible in most accounts of the period, but acting with
                    sufficient force upon the more celebrated heavenly bodies as to make their behavior inexplicable
                    without taking account of him" (p. 3).
            Thomas Jefferson, of course, owed his election as president to Burr, a shrewd 
                        New York
                     politician who, as Jefferson's 1800 running mate, helped to steer the
                    electoral votes of that crucial state into the Jeffersonian Republican column. But Burr, who by the
                    rules of the day received an equal amount of Electoral College support, would have allowed
                    Federalists in the House of Representatives, who had to break the unintended tie, to elevate him
                    above Jefferson. Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                    , who disliked Jefferson but detested Burr, worked to save the election. He informed
                    friends that Jefferson, despite his faults, loved liberty but that "Burr loves nothing but
                    himself" (p. 65). This helped to propel the New Yorkers toward their fateful 1804 duel at
                    Weehawken, 
                        New Jersey
                    , where Burr, according to Kennedy, assisted 
                        Hamilton
                    's "sacrificial suicide" (p. 12) by shooting him dead.
                    Burr's killing of 
                        Hamilton
                     killed his own ailing political prospects. Jefferson, understandably, had already
                    allowed Burr's removal from the 1804 Republican ticket and then coasted into a second term
                    with 
                        New York
                     Governor George Clinton, yet another Burr enemy, as running mate; already both 
                        Hamilton
                     and Clinton had undermined Burr in his failed bid to succeed Clinton as governor. In
                    1807, after a frustrated Burr sought European assistance in a murky, maverick scheme to invade
                    Mexico, Jefferson assumed the worst. He accused Burr of treason, a charge on which prosecutors
                    failed to convict the former vice president.
            While Burr's significance is beyond doubt, the nature of his character remains a tricky
                    matter. Kennedy is quick to defend his hero, and he does an admirable job of illuminating the
                    attractive facets of Burr's mind—Burr seems almost singularly enlightened on
                    issues of race and gender, for instance. Less compelling is Kennedy's treatment of 
                        Hamilton
                    , Jefferson, and the other men who learned to distrust the mercurial New Yorker.
                    Although the relative paucity of Burr's papers, most of which sank in an 1812 shipwreck off 
                        North Carolina
                    's coast, perhaps justifies Kennedy's resort, at times, to armchair
                    psychoanalysis of his protagonist, the papers of Kennedy's other principals—and
                    the abundance of scholarly work concerning them— might have been examined more carefully.
            
            Kennedy, who nearly always views Burr's proverbial glass as half full while the glasses of
                    his detractors stand half empty, makes assertions that are as uncharitable as they are unlikely. It
                    is hardly tenable, for example, to imply that Jefferson, whom Kennedy writes "was careful
                    not to join publicly in James 
                        Monroe
                    's opposition to" the Constitution, privately opposed its ratification
                    (p. 23). Was it hubris, as Kennedy suggests, that alienated General George 
                        Washington
                     from Burr after Burr, his clerk, used family influence in Congress to secure for
                    himself a more appealing assignment, or was it merely the fact that the indecorous major violated
                    his chain-of-command? Did Burr's conduct, as Jefferson claimed, earn his distrust, or was
                    it, as Kennedy speculates, that Burr introduced Dolley Payne to James 
                        Madison
                    , crowding "the intimate space" that characterized the Jefferson-
                        Madison
                     "bachelor partnership" (p. 368)?
            Kennedy deserves praise for reminding us that friendships and vendettas help to shape history. These
                    same forces, as he argues in behalf of Burr, can also distort it. Too bad, therefore, that
                    Kennedy's attempt to elevate Burr resorts to the tired tactic of depreciating his enemies.
                    This book would be better if instead he had tried to understand them. Such an effort would consider
                    the ideological as well as the personal, taking into account a generation of scholarship that should
                    be embellished but not abandoned.
            ROBERT M. S. MCDONALD, assistant
                    professor of history at the 
                        United States
                     Military Academy, West Point, 
                        New York
                    , is writing a book entitled "Confounding Father: Thomas Jefferson and the
                    Politics of Personality."
         
         
            
               Joseph McCarthy: Reexamining the Life and Legacy of America's Most Hated
                        Senator. By Arthur Herman. (
                        New York
                     Free Press, 1999. Pp. 404. Illustrations, tables, appendices, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $26.00.)
            Arthur Herman has a valid complaint. In recent years there has been substantial revision in
                    historical knowledge about communists in America. Historians such as John Earl Haynes, Harvey Klehr,
                    and Allen Weinstein have pointed out, backed by substantial evidence, the truth about American
                    communism—its conspiratorial nature, its duplicity, and its ready acceptance of
                    totalitarianism as an instrument of power. Yet, as Herman asks, "in the midst of all this
                    revision and reevaluation of the period and the issues at stake, what has happened to McCarthy
                    himself? Virtually nothing" (p. 6). There has not been any substantial revision or
                    reinterpretation of Joseph McCarthy's "real role in the story of cold war
                    anticommunism" (ibid.) Herman's book is the first to explore
                    this role.
            Herman has two arguments. The first, which he pursues with zeal, is that McCarthy was roundly
                    condemned for the manner of his attacks on communists. His
                    methods—which even Herman sees as 
                    reckless—were not unique to McCarthy. McCarthy's opponents could engage in
                    similar conduct. To Herman, liberals were hypocrites, as bad in their behavior as the man they
                    decried. Joseph Welch, the famed attorney in the 1954 Army-McCarthy hearings, engaged in less than
                    ideal behavior, Herman discovers, feigning tears before the newsmen after a run-in with McCarthy and
                    later turning to a colleague and stating, "well, how did it go?" (p. 276).
                    Welch's performance fit perfectly the emotional climate McCarthy helped create, and one is
                    tempted to say a plague on both houses; however, historians have vilified McCarthy while forgiving
                    the excesses of McCarthy's opponents. Herman sets the record straight.
            Herman is less convincing in his main argument, that McCarthy is a crucial figure in the emergence of
                    a populist conservativism that later produced Ronald Reagan: "it may be true …
                    that McCarthy failed to set off a populist revolt [was that his intent?] but his ideological heirs
                    did. When Ronald Reagan assumed the leadership of a reconstituted conservative GOP in 1980, it had a
                    distinctly populist appeal" (p. 324). This is patent nonsense. McCarthyism damaged
                    anticommunism in America and hurt the conservative movement's ability to use it effectively
                    without being labeled extremists Gust examine the visceral reaction to Barry Goldwater's
                    candidacy in 1964). Only after the failures of 
                        Vietnam
                     and of detente did conservatives regain the moral high ground on the communist issue,
                    and it still was not easy. There is a difference, as Richard Gid Powers argues, between extremist
                    anticommunists like McCarthy and responsible anticommunists like Reagan, the latter intent on
                    defeating communism abroad, not searching for reds under beds. Herman, seemingly, agrees:
                    "McCarthy's disgrace allowed the anti-anticommunists to retake the moral high
                    ground they had lost since the Nazi-Soviet Pact and the Hiss case" (p. 312). Exactly. The
                    origins of the current conservative movement's political successes are not to be found in
                    the downfall of Joe McCarthy, but rather in the tumults of liberalism in the 1960s and 1970s.
            Herman's book is a well-written and useful account. It shows sympathy for a tragic figure,
                    not at all times a bad thing. Herman shows McCarthy to be human, not a monster, and when read in
                    conjunction with William F. Buckley's fictional account of McCarthy's life, The Red-hunter (19991, the reader feels a certain empathy for McCarthy, but not
                    for the -ism.
            GREGORY L. SCHNEIDER is assistant professor of history at 
                        Emporia
                     State University, 
                  Emporia, Kansas
               . He is the author of Cadres
                        for Conservatiuism: Young Americans for Freedom and the Rise of the Contemporary Right
                    (1999) and is a student of modern American politics and conservative thought.
         
         
         
            Letters to the Editor
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Editor: Indiana Magazine of History
                        
                        In the article, "The Decline of 
                                        Quaker
                                     Pacifism in the Twentieth Century: Indiana Yearly Meeting of Friends as
                                    a Case Study," Indiana Magazine of History, XCVI (March
                                    2000>, 44-71, Thomas D. Hamm and his students seek to demonstrate
                                    "that in the twentieth century pacifism has lost much of its force in the
                                    lives of members of Indiana Yearly Meeting." They support this argument
                                    with evidence that during the major wars of the twentieth century more male Indiana
                                    Quakers of military age chose to serve in the military rather than to be
                                    conscientious objectors.
                        The authors seem to assume that men faced only two option— military
                                    service or conscientious objection leading to alternative, non-military service if
                                    called to duty. From the first World War on there was a third option—to
                                    register with Selective Service as a conscientious objector who, if drafted, was
                                    willing to serve in the military as a noncombatant, usually as a medical corpsman.
                                    This provision was originally made to accommodate members of the historic peace
                                    churches. For the argument of the article to be compelling, the authors would have
                                    to establish that most Indiana Quakers in the military were not serving as
                                    noncombatants. Unless and until this can be demonstrated, the thesis remains
                                    unproven.
                        In the meantime a disservice seems to have been done to hundreds of Indiana men who
                                    made a difficult and brave choice that allowed them to serve both their nation and
                                    their religious heritage.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 Ivy Tech State College
                              
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       Bloomington
                                    , Indiana
                              
                           
                                    
                                        John D. King
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Editor: Indiana Magazine of History
                        
                        Mr. King raises a good point. Explicit consideration of non-combatants would have
                                    strengthened our article.
                        It is impossible to do what he thinks necessary, however, because we cannot find, nor
                                    could archivists at Selective Service headquarters, any statistics that
                                    differentiated between combatant and non-combatant Friends from Indiana or
                                    elsewhere. As we point out, other than the 
                                        Brown
                                     survey of World War I, we have none at all. We do, however, have some
                                    fragmentary information which suggests that most Friends who went into the military
                                    did not do so as noncombatants. For World War I, we have a survey of members of the
                                    Five Years Meeting that had a response rate of 27%. It showed that of the
                                    respondents, 350 said they would choose to be absolute conscientious objectors, 600
                                    would accept some form of noncombatant service, and about 2,300 would go into the
                                    regular military. We know of no reason to think that Indiana Friends would have
                                    differed significantly [see Elbert Russell, The History of
                                    Quakerism (
                                        New York
                                    , 1942), 5161. We also know that the entire state of Indiana produced
                                    only 263 men  registered as noncombatants in
                                    June 1944 [see Charles B. Hirsch, "Conscientious Objectors in Indiana
                                    During World War 11," Indiana Magazine of History, XLVI
                                    (March 1950), 601. Even if all of these men were Quakers, which is highly unlikely,
                                    they would have been a minority of Indiana 
                                        Quaker
                                     men subject to the draft. Since our article was published, we have also
                                    obtained a copy of a study of 
                                        Richmond
                                     churches done in 1945 by a group of Earlham College sociology students
                                    that includes statistics on service in World War II. It showed the following for the
                                    three Friends meetings in 
                                        Richmond
                                    : First Friends had 53 in military service, 6 noncombatants, and 3 in
                                    CPS; North Tenth Street had 3 in military service, none in other categories; West 
                                        Richmond
                                     had 59 in military service, 3 in CPS, and no noncombatants.
                        Contrary to Mr. King's assertion, we do not base our case for the decline of 
                                        Quaker
                                     pacifism just on evidence of military service. We also base it on
                                    numerous statements by Indiana Friends over the course of the twentieth century that
                                    that was the case, and who justified various kinds of warfare. If most of the
                                    Indiana Quakers entering the military were noncombatants, it seems likely that
                                    someone would have noted that. To our knowledge, no one did.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 Earlham Collge
                              
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       Richmond
                                    , Indiana
                              
                           
                                    
                                        Thomas D. Hamm
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
