
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 72, Issue 2, pages 95-188. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:72+issue:2+year:1976&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Richard W. Thompson: The Persistent Know Nothing
            Mark E. Neely, Jr.∗
            
            The Know Nothing party in the Old Northwest has been seen more as a party of sectional compromise
                    than as a party of ethnic and religious divisiveness. Historians have argued for years that the
                    anti-Catholic, antiforeign party was, in the states west of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , principally a haven for conservative Union loving Whigs who became Know Nothings
                    because they wished to avoid Republican radicalism on the slavery question but who could not bear
                    the thought of joining forces with their lifelong enemies in the Democracy. Historians have
                    belittled the party's voter appeal and have pictured it as a hopelessly senile movement
                    which embodied little or no sincere animosity toward the Midwest's small Catholic and
                    foreign born population.1
            
            
               
                  ∗ Mark E. Neely, Jr., is director, Lincoln National Life
                        Foundation, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Indiana.
               
                  1 John P. Senning's article, "The Know-Nothing Movement
                        in 
                            Illinois
                        ," Journal of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, VII (April, 1914), 1–33, concluded
                        that the Know Nothing movement in Indiana's western neighbor was
                        "issueless" because opposition "to the foreign immigrant in the West
                        would have proved suicidal to its development" (p. 12). It was, therefore, the haven of
                        Union loving conservatives. The standard history of Know Nothingism, Ray Allen
                        Billington's book, The Protestant Crusade, 1800–1860: A Study
                            of the Origins of American Nativism (
                            Chicago
                        , 1964), adopted the same interpretation for the whole Midwest. After 1854
                        conservatives were "left stranded with no party allegiance, for many of them refused to
                        support either the proslavery Democratic party or the antislavery Republican party….
                        They drifted naturally into the Know-Nothing party, which was not only neutral on the vital
                        issue of slavery but loudly promised to preserve the union" (pp. 390–91).
                        Billington wrote before the discovery of midwestern race prejudice by writers like Voegeli,
                        Litwack, and Berwanger and did say at one point that the
                        "anti-Catholic sentiment which did exist in the northwest was almost certainly
                        sincere" because the "people of this section wanted no compromise on
                        slavery" (p. 395). In 1940 Henry J. Carman's and Reinhard H. Luthin's
                        "Some Aspects of the Know-Nothing Movement Reconsidered," South
                            Atlantic Quarterly, XXXIX (April, 1940), 213–34, questioned the sincerity
                        even of the northeastern members of the party,
            
            
            
               RICHARD W. T HOMPSON (1850)
               Reproduced from Richard W. Thompson, Recollections of Sixteen
                            Presidents from 
                                Washington
                             to Lincoln (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1894), II, frontispiece.
            
            Of late, the history of the Know Nothing party has undergone extensive revision, all of which points
                    toward a much greater inherent vitality in the movement than historians used to think. Scholars now
                    shy away from the "Civil War synthesis" which attempted to relate all political
                    issues 
                  concluding flatly that "in the majority of states invaded by the movement the
                            issue served as a mere cloak for issues of far greater moment" (p. 213). Allan
                            Nevins made the same mistake in Ordeal of the Union: A House Dividing,
                                1852–1857 (
                                New York
                            , 1947), 316–18, 323–32. This interpretation became a
                            useful exculpatory tool in the hands of skillful biographers of statesmen who had dallied
                            with the party. Thus Albert D. Kirwan's John J. Crittenden: The
                                Struggle for the Union ([
                                Lexington
                            ], 1962) excused the 
                                Kentucky
                             statesman on these grounds: "In the border states …
                            Know-Nothings were influenced more by fear of sectional conflict over slavery than by
                            eagerness for its protection or by an aversion to Catholics…. The Know-Nothing
                            party offered them an alternative, a delay of violent civil war. They sought to preserve the
                            Union by pushing aside the slavery issue" (p. 297). Thus Crittenden joined the
                            "healthy, respectable element" in the party. For a different view of
                            Crittenden, see Wallace S. Hutcheon, Jr., "The Louisville Riots of August,
                            1855," Register of the 
                                    Kentucky
                                 Historical Society, LXIX (April, 1971), 150–72, esp.
                        169.
               
                in the 1850s to slavery and sectionalism. They try
                    instead to approach the events of the decade as they appeared at the time to voters and politicians
                    who did not know war was coming.2
            
            Michael F. Holt has studied the Know Nothing party's meteoric history more thoroughly than
                    any other recent student. He pictures the Know Nothings as sincere zealots responding directly to
                    sensational issues involving immigration and the Catholic church. Most important, of course, was the
                    influx of Catholic immigrants from famine stricken 
                        Ireland
                     and from 
                        Germany
                     in the late 1840s. When their five year naturalization periods expired and the 
                        Maine
                     law agitation made them fear they would lose their beer, these immigrants came to the
                    polis in droves, voting—as tradition has dictated—for the Democratic party.
                    Know Nothingism in the eastern states, Holt says, was a direct, bigoted response to this new
                        presence.3
            
            Tactical errors made by the highest ranking Catholic prelate in America, Archbishop John Hughes of 
                        New York
                    , as well as local squabbles led to sensational headlines that made the Catholic issue
                    important even in states where few Catholic immigrants lived or voted. Hughes pressed the 
                  
                     2 On the perils of the Civil War synthesis see Joel H. Silbey,
                            "The Civil War Synthesis in American Political History," Civil War History, X (June, 1964), 130–40.
                  
                     3 Studies which discuss the Know Nothing party in Indiana do not
                            seriously challenge the generally accepted interpretation of the movement. Carl Fremont
                            Brand's article, "The History of the Know Nothing Party in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII (March, June,
                            September, 1922), 47–81, 177–206, 266–306, presented a
                            bland summary of the movement's rise and fall Brand largely avoided speculation on
                            the motivations of the party's adherents because he had no access to the private
                            papers of the leaders. Sister M. Evangeline Thomas' book, Nativism in
                                the Old Northwest, 1850–1860 (
                                Washington
                            , 1936), was sensitive to American anti-Catholicism, but her regional focus
                            slighted Indiana's experience. Logan Esarey's treatment of the movement in
                                A History of Indiana from 1850 to the Present (Reprint, 2 vols. in
                            one, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1970), II, 619–21, was too brief to attempt any major
                            interpretation of the movement. John D. Barnhardt's and Donald F.
                            Carmony's Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), II, 141–52, is rather tentative, stressing as a cause of the
                            party's growth the rise of Catholic population at first (p. 141) but then arguing
                            that it "secured substantial political significance only because of the resurgence
                            of the agitation over slavery" (p. 142). On the whole they belittle the vitality
                            and significance of the Know Nothing party in Indiana. For Holt's view, see Michael
                            F. Holt, "The Antimasonic and Know Nothing Parties," in Arthur M.
                            Schlesinger, Jr., History of U.S. Political Parties, 1789–1860.
                            Volume I, Factions to Parties (
                                New York
                            , 1973), 596–98; and Michael F. Holt, "The Politics of
                            Impatience: The Origins of Know Nothingism," Journal of American
                                History, LX (September, 1973), 323–31.
               
                     trusteeship controversy over ecclesiastical ownership of church
                    property in 
                        New York
                     to the point that a papal nuncio, Gaetano Bedini, was sent to settle the question.
                    Bedini's ensuing trip to extend the papal blessing to Catholics across the country in 1853
                    spawned fears of a Catholic assault even where few Catholics lived. Campaigns like the one launched
                    by Hughes in 
                        New York
                     in 1852 to end reading of the Protestant version of the Bible in the public schools and
                    to split the public school fund for parochial schools were ill timed and fed the fires of hatred and
                    fear in 
                  Ohio, Pennsylvania
               , and 
                        Maryland
                    . A depression along the Ohio River in 1854 brought working class
                    hostility to foreign laborers who lowered wages or threatened scarce jobs.4
            
            Holt argues that many native Protestants sensed a crisis, but the established political parties, Whig
                    and Democrat, did not respond to the issue quickly. Seeking a new party responsive to the popular
                    will and sensitive to this social crisis, impatient reformers created the Know Knowing party. It did
                    not await the nationalist vacuum created by the death of the Whig party and the passage of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act of 1854; in fact, it helped destroy the Whig party by stealing its nativist
                        voters.5
            
            But Holt's revised picture challenges the old view of the Know Nothings only in regard to
                    the eastern states; he has little to say about the Catholic issue in Indiana or other states of the
                    Old Northwest. In the Northeast, Holt argues, the Know Nothing party outstripped the
                    Republicans' growth rate in 1854, 1855, and 18566 In the states of the
                    Old Northwest, however, the Republicans took an early lead over the Know Nothings in competing for
                    homeless anti-Democratic voters.7
            
            Know Nothing lodges began to spring up in the Hoosier State in February, 1854, before the national
                    House of Representatives passed the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act but shortly after anti-Catholic agitator Alessandro Gavazzi toured the state. As a
                    political party the Know Nothings very early fused with other anti-Democratic groups and often
                    dictated most of the nominations to the state ticket in secret session the night before the open
                    Fusion or People's party convention met. In 
                  
                     4 Holt, "Antimasonic and Know Nothing Parties," 594.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 603.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 607.
                  
                     7
                            Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 148.
               
                     1854 three fourths of the Fusion state ticket were Know
                    Nothings, and they swept the state on a prohibition and anti-
                        Nebraska
                     platform. By 1855 Know Nothings and anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men were reaching agreement by compromise, the former reducing their demand for longer
                    naturalization periods from twenty-one to five years and the latter proposing a change in the
                    Indiana constitution to prevent alien voting.8
            
            The Know Nothing party reached its peak of influence in Indiana in 1854, but what killed it was the 
                        Kansas
                     issue in 1856. Know Nothing David Kilgore summed up the party's demise when he
                    urged its members to send delegates to the Republican national convention; the 
                        Kansas
                     question cannot wait, he said, but Americanism can. The American or Know Nothing party
                    which had supported Millard Fillmore in Indiana in 1856 hardly existed north of the National Road;
                    and it stressed through its major speaker, Richard W. Thompson, a stand on sectional issues so
                    prosouthern that many thought him secretly in the pay of the Democrats. The People's party
                    took the name "Republican" in 1858 and refused further concessions to nativists.
                    The Know Nothing party disappeared by 1859, but some remnants went into the Constitutional Union
                    party in 1860.9
            
            Throughout the history of Indiana's Know Nothing party, Thompson was one of its most
                    important leaders. He was a 
                        Terre Haute
                     lawyer and resilient politician; his career has long been viewed as perfect proof that
                    midwestern Know Nothingism was most often the refuge of Union loving moderates rather than of
                    malignant and aggressive bigots. Thompson was born in 
                        Virginia
                     in 1809 but moved to Indiana in 1831. In politics he became a follower of Henry Clay
                    and an advocate of the protective tariff, internal improvements, and the sanctity of the Union,
                    carrying these principles with him into the state legislature in the 1830s and into the 
                        United States
                     House of Representatives in the 1840s. After Winfield Scott's loss to Franklin
                    Pierce in the presidential election of 1852, however, Thompson recognized that the Whig party was
                    dead. A fellow Whig wrote him just after election day: "In relation to political matters I
                    feel as you do. Democracy, with 
                  
                     8 Brand, "Know Nothing Party in Indiana," 58, 62,
                            65, 200–202. See also Esarey, History of Indiana, II,
                            619–21, and Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II,
                            141–52.
                  
                     9 Brand, "Know Nothing Party in Indiana," 273, 280,
                            282.
               
                     its indomitable energy has swept every vestige of whiggery from
                    the land—As a party organization we are extinct …. Where shall we
                        go?"10
            
            Thompson's answer by 1855 was to join the Know Nothing party. According to Charles
                    Roll's biography of Thompson this was a move to a party "quite generally regarded
                    as the successor to the Whig party," and it revealed a consistent Unionist conservatism in
                    Thompson's political thought. He had always been one of those Whigs who sought to calm
                    sectional animosities. As a congressman in 1849 he had voted against a proposal to prohibit slavery
                    in the 
                        District of Columbia
                     despite his personal beliefs that slavery was wrong and that Congress had the
                    constitutional power to abolish slavery in the District; Thompson feared the threat to the Union
                    that lay in irritating the South over such issues. Roll interpreted Thompson's Know
                    Nothingism as a respectable extension of this spirit of conservatism on sectional issues:
            
                    The secrecy of the Know Nothing movement and the antiforeign, anti-Catholic activities of some of
                        its supporters in the larger cities, have received much attention. The more significant aspects
                        of the party as a conservative force in politics have been largely ignored. Yet it was this
                        phase of the movement that appealed to men of the character of Thompson, Fillmore, Bell, and
                            Crittenden.11
               
                
            Thompson continued his Know Nothing affiliation well after the time that the Republican party had
                    clearly taken the lead as the most promising opponent of the Democracy. He became a Constitutional
                    Union party member and was lured to the Republicans only when they nominated a man he considered a
                    "conservative" for president in 1860. Even as a Republican, Thompson stressed
                    efforts to restore the Union (he recruited Indiana soldiers and combatted Copperheadism 
                  
                     10 Charles Roll, Colonel Dick Thompson: The Persistent
                                Whig (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXX; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1948), 1, 12, 19, 21, 44–45; E. J. Terry to Richard W. Thompson,
                            November 13, 1852, Richard W. Thompson Collection (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     11 Roll, Colonel Dick Thompson, 146–47,
                            87, 105–11, 147. Emma Lou Thornbrough's Indiana in the
                                Civil War Era, 1850–1880 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965) cited Thompson's career as a prime example of the same brand of
                            Know Nothingism: "Some Indiana Whigs, of whom Richard W. Thompson was most
                            prominent, were attracted to the movement, not because of its anti-foreign, anti-Catholic
                            character, but because of its conservative character and because they regarded it as true
                            successor of the Whig party" (p. 60).
               
                     as a provost marshal) and protested the Emancipation
                        Proclamation.12
            
            However one interprets Know Nothingism, any conclusion as to why its adherents joined the movement
                    must be arrived at indirectly. The party operated in secret. In Indiana, the Know Nothing's
                    activities were so clandestine that one party leader, Godlove S. Orth, wrote the proper names in his
                    correspondence in code. Another prominent Indiana Know Nothing, Schuyler Colfax, falsely denied that
                    he was a party member in 1854 and hid his attendance as a delegate to the party's national
                    council meeting in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1855 by claiming that he was covering the meeting as a reporter for his 
                        South Bend
                     newspaper. Thompson's correspondence during the period of his Know Nothing
                    affiliation is sketchy and unin-formative. Thus the case which some historians have made for the
                    respectability of his Know Nothing affiliation rests, not on candid assertions in private letters
                    that the anti-Catholic party was a refuge from sectional controversy, but on his record as a
                    Unionist before and after the 1850s and on the circumstances of national party politics.13
            
            Thompson probably did not bring the sort of impatient reforming zeal to the Know Nothing party that
                    Holt describes. He did not desert the Whigs out of impatience; he accurately judged the party
                    incapable of winning an election after 1852 and was politically homeless when the Know Nothing party
                    emerged. Whether his presence in that party was reluctant—whether he joined its despite
                    its anti-Catholic and antiforeign platforms or because of them—that is the tough
                    question.
            For Thompson the Catholic issue was not merely a matter of exotic news stories from 
                        New York
                    . Most of the Catholics 
                  
                     12 Roll, Colonel Dick Thompson, 156–57,
                            169–70, 175–88. Answering questions in an election year, 1847,
                            Thompson wrote a correspondent that he regarded slavery "as an evil of incalculable
                            magnitude—from which neither master nor slave is exempt." See R. W.
                            Thompson to [?], June 8, 1847, Thompson Collection (Indiana State Library). Thompson
                            stressed Lincoln's conservatism on the slavery issue in his Recollections of Sixteen Presidents from 
                                    Washington
                                 to Lincoln (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1894), II, 390–96. Thompson's draft of a petition
                            protesting the Emancipation Proclamation is in the Richard W. Thompson Collection (The
                            Lincoln National Life Foundation, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            ).
                  
                     13 See J. Herman Schauinger, "The Letters of Godlove S. Orth,
                            Hoosier American," Indiana Magazine of History, XL (March, 1944),
                            51–66; and Willard H. Smith, Schuyler Colfax: The Changing Fortunes
                                of a Political Idol (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXIII; Indianopolis,
                            1952), 53, 56, 57.
               
                     in 
                        Vigo County
                     lived in his home town, 
                        Terre Haute
                    . The first Catholic church in 
                        Terre Haute
                     had been founded as early as 1838. In 1853 the church added fifty-two pews, and a
                    Catholic school was founded. Still, there was no perceptible Catholic "threat" in 
                        Vigo County
                     or almost anywhere else in the Midwest (except Ohio River towns);
                    thus, the reasons for Thompson's Know Nothingism must be sought by other strategies of
                        indirection.14
            
            There are no studies which focus specifically on the careers of Know Nothing party members after the
                    1850s. As a test of sincerity of anti-Catholic and antiforeign convictions, such a study would
                    surely be as conclusive as studies of foreign and Catholic population growth and the emergence and
                    decline of other parties. It is a test, at any rate, which calls into question Roll's
                    attempt to fit Thompson's career into the model provided by the older studies of Know
                    Nothingism in the states of the Old Northwest. True enough, Thompson's correspondence in
                    the 1850s reveals little to prove or disprove an anti-Catholic basis for his politics. But Thompson
                    did nothing in his later career as Republican politician and orator, as secretary of the navy in
                    Rutherford B. Hayes' Cabinet, or as revered Indiana man of letters that was inconsistent
                    with a sincere anti-Catholic and antiforeign sentiment. He did much that was pointedly anti-Catholic
                    and antiforeign. In short, the events of Thompson's later career are utterly consistent
                    with a belief that he joined the Know Nothing party at least in part because he feared and genuinely
                    disliked the activities of the Roman Catholic church and immigrants in the 
                        United States
                    .
            Thompson's nationalism has been vastly overrated. As Morton Grodzins has argued,
                    "One fights for the joys of his pinochle club when he is said to fight for his
                    country." Nationalism always has specific social content which falls short of 
                  
                     14 H. C. Bradsby, History of 
                                    Vigo County
                                , Indiana, with Biographical Selections (
                                Chicago
                            , 1891), 595; H. W. Beckwith, History of Vigo and Parke Counties,
                                together with Historic Notes on the Wabash Valley
                      … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1880), 128–29. Sister M. Evangeline Thomas estimated the rise in
                            foreign born population in Indiana at 3 percent between 1850 and 1860. Foreign born citizens
                            comprised only 5.7 percent of the Indiana population in 1850; they numbered only 55,572 in
                            that year. In 1860 Indiana had by far the smallest percentage of foreign born population in
                            the states of the Old Northwest. Unlike 
                        Ohio, Illinois, Michigan
                     , and 
                                Wisconsin
                            , it had less than 10 percent foreign born population. See Thomas, Nativism in the Old Northwest, 34, 101. The city of 
                                Boston
                             alone held just 6,493 fewer foreign born residents than the whole state of
                            Indiana in 1850. See Oscar Handlin, 
                        
                                    Boston
                                's Immigrants (
                                New York
                            , 1968), 243.
               
                     comprehending all the social elements within the nation, and
                    Thompson's nationalism was no exception. In the very depths of the secession crisis, on
                    December 22, 1860, Thompson could draft a remarkable letter to Governor John Letcher of 
                        Virginia
                     which began: 
                  
                     
                        Such is the fearful posture of our public affairs that we are all trying to look into
                                    the future, to see in what way the interest of the several sections is to be
                                    preserved and advanced. It will not do to let the material prosperity of the Country
                                    be all sacrificed and destroyed by political or sectional broils,—and
                                    whether the Union shall remain intact or be finally & entirely dissolved,
                                    every reflecting man must see that the central belt of States, from the Atlantic to
                                    the Pacific, must always share a common destiny. In the event of dissolution they
                                    would have no difficulty in forming a satisfactory union,—leaving the
                                    extreme north to indulge its vagaries alone, and the extreme South to develope its
                                    capacity and resources in its own way.
                     
                  
               The letter went on to delineate the course of action demanded of this middle section if the
                    Union were to survive. The plan flattered 
                        Virginia
                     as "the controlling State" in the nation should the Union continue,
                    but Thompson's plan was no gimmick to persuade 
                        Virginia
                     not to secede. He added blithely that "if the union should not be continued, 
                        Virginia
                    , by her own policy, may yet have it in her power, to make Norfolk the rival of 
                        New York
                     and still secure the commanding position."15
            
            The plan, according to Thompson, was to open direct trade between Norfolk and Europe. Railroads would
                    hitch Indiana to 
                        Virginia
                    's commercial star: "The present and prospective system of railroads
                    in the State already points to the great North-West, and must soon become an important part of the
                    immense net-work of roads which now reach 
                        Kansas
                     and are fast progressing towards the Pacific:—and the entire system, when
                    complete, will be entirely, or almost so, within the sectional belt which I have
                    indicated." Private profit as well as sectional pride was, no doubt, involved in the
                    scheme. Since 1847 Thompson had served as attorney for the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     Railroad Company, which controlled a vital link in the route from 
                        St. Louis
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . These 
                  
                     15 Grodzins' remark is quoted on page 48 in David
                            Potter's perceptive essay, "The Historian's Use of Nationalism
                            and Vice Versa," which has been conveniently reprinted in Potter, The
                                South and the Sectional Conflict (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 1968), 34–83. Richard W. Thompson to John Letcher, December 22,
                            1860 (draft letter), Thompson Collection (Lincoln Life Foundation).
               
                     towns were among the "great centres of accumulation
                    and distribution for the products of their respective neighborhoods." "The plan is
                    not mine, as you may suppose," Thompson explained to Letcher,
                    "but as I am known to those who have produced it, to have cherished, for some years, the
                    hope that such an arrangement might be accomplished, and am convinced that, with proper management,
                    it may be made most effective for the purpose designed, I have been made the medium of laying it
                    before you for your consideration." The letter specifically mentioned
                    "profits" more than once, but Thompson's personal motivation for taking
                    the Union lightly is not at issue here. The letter is cited only as proof that nationalism alone
                    probably did not send a reluctant Thompson into the Know Nothing ranks.16
            
            By way of contrast Thompson's identification with Protestantism was strong enough to drive
                    him back into the arms even of 
                        New England
                     when he imagined that all sections faced a common, Catholic enemy. In
                    1868 Thompson was chosen to give an address on the religious history and character of the Puritans
                    before the 
                        New England
                     Society of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , an unusual subject for a 
                        Virginia
                     born man "who sprang from the Cavaliers, and in whose veins there runs no drop
                    of 
                        Puritan
                     blood." It was also a strange audience for a man who, eight years before, had
                    been willing to let 
                        New England
                     stray out of the American nation to indulge in its "vagaries"
                        alone.17
            
            Thompson's address celebrated the role of the Puritans in founding America, furthering the
                    Protestant Reformation, and advancing the principles of free thought and free speech associated with
                    Protestantism. He excused the Puritans for executing witches by pointing to the large numbers of
                    imagined witches burned in continental Europe in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, the
                    executions of thousands of witches in 
                        England
                     from the reign of Henry VI to 1736, and Lord Bacon's and William
                    Shakespeare's belief in witches. He also excused the Puritans' anti-
                        Quaker
                     laws by showing that 
                  
                     16 Richard W. Thompson to John Letcher, December 22, 1860 (draft
                            letter), Thompson Collection (Lincoln Life Foundation). For Thompson's interest in
                            railroads see also Roll, Colonel Dick Thompson, 134.
                  
                     17 Richard Thompson, Address on the Religious History and
                                Character of the Puritans, by R. W. Thompson, Delivered before the 
                                    New England
                                 Society of 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , Indiana, December 20, 1868 (
                                Terre Haute
                            , 1868), 7.
               
                     Episcopalian 
                        Virginia
                     also had its anti-
                        Quaker
                     statutes. A man so conscious of his Cavalier heritage could cite embarrassing practices
                    in 
                        Virginia
                     to excuse embarrassing practices in 
                        Massachusetts
                     only for the sake of unity against a more dangerous common enemy: 
                        Observed within the circle of the light now shining upon us, both the Cavaliers and the
                            Puritans had their errors; but they had virtues which rose above those so high as to obscure
                            them to all except the ignorant and envious …. The work which lies before us, is
                            great enough to demand our united energies. The labor of our fathers must not be lost by
                            neglect, at our hands. We must see that there be no chilling frost to wither the fruits of
                            the Great Protestant Reformation. We must take care that Liberty is preserved, in all its
                            variety of forms. There must be no hesitancy or halting in the contest between truth and
                            error—right and wrong;—between Protestantism and all the forms of
                            antagonism by which it may be assailed.18
                  
                    
            
            To continue the work of the 
                        Puritan
                     fathers was, for Thompson, to continue a work conceived in the earliest history of the
                    race: 
                        The primitive stock of Britons from whom we have descended, were rude and unlettered, yet
                            they were courageous enough, during all the years of Roman domination over them, and those
                            of the Danish invasions, as well as after the 
                                Norman
                             Conquest, to maintain a religious faith of their own, and the traditionary
                            belief that it was planted among them by the ministry of 
                                St. Paul
                            . Their modes of worship, with all their rites and ceremonies, were plain and
                            simple, and whether drawn from those of an Apostolic church or not, they were designed to be
                            expressive only of the sincerity of their religious convictions. Their churches took the
                            Episcopal form, and when, in the year 597, they were brought in contact for the first time
                            with the Church of 
                                Rome
                            , by the visit of St. Augustine, they refused to acknowledge the spiritual
                            supremacy of Pope Gregory …. The object of the Pope was, then and always, to
                            blend the temporal and spiritual power in his own hands; in other words, to unite the State
                            with the Church, so that the entire christian world should bow in humiliation before him, as
                                "the vicar of God on earth."
                    
            
            Later, the "Pope triumphed in obtaining the possession of both Church and State, but there
                    was no period either before or after this beginning of the Reformation when the British christians
                    were entirely exterminated." In short, Thompson, a Methodist, repeated the post-Reformation
                    English dissenter's anti-Catholic view of Christian history. A true, pure, and simple
                    church always existed (even before the Reformation); 
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 18, 19, 20.
               
                     the Reformation began in 
                        England
                     first (with the work of John Wycliffe); and the Anglican Church separated from 
                        Rome
                     only jurisdictionally (retaining "the ceremonials which had been fastened upon
                    it by the influences of 
                        Rome
                    "). Traditional Protestant anti-Catholicism, then, appears to have been at
                    least as powerful a force in molding Thompson's ideas as American
                        "nationalism."19
            
            Anti-Catholicism may also have played a larger role in Rutherford B. Hayes' selection of
                    Thompson for secretary of the navy than has hitherto been thought.20 Because of
                    the spectacular dispute that followed the presidential election of 1876, recent historians'
                    preoccupation with black history, and ironically the very excellence of C. Vann Woodward's
                        Reunion and Reaction: The Compromise of 1877 and the End of Reconstruction,
                    which emphasized the election's aftermath and its implications for Reconstruction history,
                    the 1876 canvass itself has been slighted.21 A glance at the events of the
                    campaign leading up to the election reveals the prominence of the Catholic issue.
            In a sense President Ulysses S. Grant initiated the Republican campaign in 1875. In a speech at the
                    annual reunion of the Army of the 
                        Tennessee
                     in 
                        Des Moines
                    , 
                        Iowa
                    , on September 29, 1875, Grant predicted: "If we are to have another contest in
                    the near future of our national existence … the dividing line will not be
                    Mason's and Dixon's, but between patriotism and intelligence on the one side, and
                    superstition, 
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., 8, 9, 10. For the origins of this pattern of historical
                            understanding see Peter Gay, A Loss of Mastery: 
                                    Puritan
                                 Historians in Colonial America (
                                New York
                            , 1968), 6–9.
                  
                     20 No one has suggested that Thompson's nativism was anything
                            but a liability to his chances to join Hayes' Cabinet; only Barnard mentions it.
                            See Harry Barnard, Rutherford B. Hayes and His America (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1954), 416; Kenneth E. Davison, The Presidency of Rutherford B.
                                Hayes (
                                Westport
                            , 
                                Conn.
                            , 1972), 112; William Dudley Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton,
                                Including His Important Speeches (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899), II, 479–80; Charles Richard Williams, The Life
                                of Rutherford Birchard Hayes, Nineteenth President of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Columbus
                            , 1928), II, 31; Hamilton James Eckenrode, Rutherford B. Hayes:
                                Statesman of Reunion (
                                New York
                            , 1930), 242; Roll, Colonel Dick Thompson, 210–12.
                  
                     21 C. Vann Woodward's Reunion and Reaction: The
                                Compromise of 1877 and the End of Reconstruction (
                                Boston
                            , 1966) has only recently met with criticism. See Allan Peskin, "Was
                            There a Compromise of 1877?" Journal of American History, LX
                            (June, 1973), 63–75. Paul Kleppner, for example, treats Hayes'
                            gubernatorial campaign but ignores his campaign for the presidency. See Paul Kleppner, The Cross of Culture: A Social Analysis of Midwestern Politics,
                                1850–1900 (
                                New York
                            , 1970), 111–14. The Catholic issue drops from sight abruptly in late
                            1876 in any treatment of Hayes' life.
               
                     ambition and ignorance on the other." To prevent
                    future civil war he urged his audience to "resolve that not one dollar of money
                    appropriated to their [the free schools'] support, no matter how raised, shall be
                    appropriated to the support of any secretarian school." His Seventh Annual Message to
                    Congress in December of 1875 called for "a constitutional amendment …
                    prohibiting the granting of any school-funds, or school-taxes, or any part thereof, either by
                    legislative, municipal, or other authority, for the benefit or in aid, directly or indirectly, of
                    any religious sect or denomination."22
            
            The issue was anti-Catholic and explosive. It was anti-Catholic for two reasons. First, American
                    Catholics had recently launched a campaign to divide local school funds so that their parochial
                    schools could gain support from the taxes paid by Catholic citizens. Second, it was anti-Catholic
                    rather than constitutionally impartial because public schools included Bible reading in the
                    curriculum, and the King James rather than the Douay Bible was used. In fact, therefore, the common
                    schools were Protestant rather than religiously neutral.23
            
            The explosive nature of the issue was nowhere better exemplified than in Hayes' home state
                    in 1875. Catholic moves to prove the King James Bible a sectarian book, remove it from the public
                    schools, and divide local school funds put 
                        Ohio
                     in an uproar.24 The likeliest candidate to receive the Republican
                    nomination for governor was Judge Alonzo Taft. In 1870, however, he had written a minority opinion
                    in a lawsuit in which he upheld the right of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Board of Education to ban the use of the King James Bible in the city's public
                        schools.25 Taft lost the gubernatorial nomination to Hayes because of this
                    opinion. Hayes' diary recorded the fact succinctly: "The leading other candidate
                    before the convention, Judge Taft, of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , is an able and good man. But he had such a record on the Bible question in the schools
                    that his nomination was impossible."26
            
            
               
                  22 Edward McPherson, A Hand-Book of Politics for 1876: Being
                            a Record of Important Political Action, National and State, From July 15, 1874 to July 15,
                            1876 (
                            New York
                        , 1969), 155, 156, 56.
               
                  23 Kleppner, Cross of Culture, 77.
               
                  24 Barnard, Hayes and His America, 273–74.
               
                        25
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  26 Diary entry, June 3, 1875, in Charles Richard Williams, ed., Diary and Letters of Rutherford Birchard Hayes (5 vols., 
                            Columbus
                        , 1924), III, 273.
            
            
            The ensuing gubernatorial campaign focused, as had the state Republican nominating convention, on the
                    religious issues. Democratic votes in the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature had recently passed the Geghan bill, a measure guaranteeing Catholic
                    clergymen the right to minister to Catholic inmates in 
                        Ohio
                    's prisons.27 Hysterical Protestants and opportunistic
                    Republicans interpreted the bill as a prelude to a Catholic assault on the public schools. Hayes
                    began the gubernatorial canvass with one idea uppermost: "to rebuke the
                        Democracy by a defeat for subserviency to Roman Catholic demands."28 Along the campaign trail experience taught him that the "tariff and
                    finances" were "controlling subjects" in some areas of the state
                    unaffected by the Catholic issue, but he always combined these issues with the anti-Catholic
                        appeal.29 On July 10, 1875, he wrote a political associate: "We
                    must not let the Catholic question drop out of sight. If they do not speak of it, we must attack
                    them for their silence. If they discuss it, or refer to it, they can't help getting into
                    trouble. We can't, I think, do better than to stick to the texts, honest
                        money, and no secretarian interference with the schools."30 Hayes had long ago learned the power of the Catholic issue. Though he himself
                    shunned the Know Nothings, he had seen them at work in 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1854. Commenting on an election victory at that time, he wrote his uncle:
                    "How people do hate Catholics, and what a happiness it was to thousands to have a chance to
                    show it in what seemed a lawful and patriotic manner."31 Hayes never
                    forgot the lesson and kept it in mind when he ran for the presidency in 1876.
            Hayes was not alone in thinking that the Catholic issue would help the Republican party in 1876.
                    James G. Blaine, as a part of his own bid for the Republican presidential nomination early that
                    year, had introduced a proposal to amend the Constitution in order to prohibit the use of public
                    money for religious purposes. In August, after Hayes' nomination, Republicans dutifully
                    brought the proposed amendment up for 
                  
                     27 Daniel R. Porter, "Governor Rutherford B. Hayes,"
                                
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 History, LXXVII (Winter, Spring, Summer, 1968), 71.
                  
                     28 Diary entry, June 3, 1875, in Williams, Diary and
                                Letters of Hayes, III, 274.
                  
                     29 Rutherford B. Hayes to John Sherman, June 29, 1875, ibid., 282.
                  
                     30 Rutherford B. Hayes to W. D. Bickham, July 10, 1875, ibid., 284.
                  
                     31 Rutherford B. Hayes to S. Birchard, October 13, 1854, ibid., I, 470.
               
                     debate in Congress, insuring maximum public exposure for the
                    issue before the election. Such, at least, was the interpretation put upon the debate by the
                    Democrats, who claimed that Blaine had hoped to use the issue to gain the nomination and that the
                    Republicans were now using it as a substitute for the Negro issue in the fall campaign.32
            
            Hayes himself certainly desired maximum exposure for the public school question. On the day the
                    debate on Blaine's amendment opened in Congress, he wrote James A. Garfield: "Let
                    me again call your attention to Blaine's proposed Constitution Amendment to protect the
                    schools. A few paragraphs on the Democratic treatment of it, its importance, etc., etc., ought to be
                    in every speech. Talk to our Southern friends about it. My correspondence from the South indicates
                    that it may be of value there also."33 Hayes became increasingly aware
                    that the "people do dread a victory for the united South" and
                    stressed the sectional issue accordingly, but he continued to emphasize the Catholic question to the
                    end: 
                        Know-nothing charges made by the Democrats, the people here care nothing about. It is
                            prefectly well known that I do not favor the exclusion of foreigners from the ballot or from
                            office, and that I do oppose Catholic interference and all sectarian
                            interference with political affairs, and especially with the schools. This last point is
                            influential, particularly with non-Catholic foreigners. It has not, I suspect, been
                            sufficiently urged in the canvass.34
                  
                    
            
            The tone of the canvass may have influenced Hayes' Cabinet selections. At least,
                    Thompson's stand on the Catholic issue appears to have been no liability to his candidacy
                    for a Cabinet post. Almost all students of the Hayes administration agree that Thompson was the
                    president's worst Cabinet selection. It was certainly the most nakedly political one.
                    Expertise did not recommend Thompson; he came from a landlocked state and knew nothing of naval
                        matters.35 Most historians 
                  
                     32
                            Congressional Record, 44 Cong., 1 Sess., 5589, 5590, 5592, 5594.
                  
                     33 Rutherford B. Hayes to James A. Garfield, in Williams, Diary and Letters of Hayes, III, 338.
                  
                     34 Rutherford B. Hayes to William Henry Smith, October 5, 1876, ibid., 365; Rutherford B. Hayes to R. C. McCormick, October 14, 1876, ibid., 367.
                  
                     35 H. Wayne Morgan recites the popular story of Thompson's
                            surprise at finding the hulls of ships were hollow in From Hayes to McKinley:
                                National Party Politics, 1877–1896 (
                                Syracuse
                            , 1969), 13; Harold and Margaret Sprout call Thompson "densely ignorant
                            of naval affairs" in The Rise of American Naval Power,
                                1776–1918 (
                                Princeton
                            , 1967), 181. Barnard's Hayes and His America calls
                            the appointment of Thompson
               
                     agree that Hayes' choice was dictated by
                    Indiana's Senator Oliver P. Morton and that Morton's choice of Thompson was
                    dictated by his fear of Benjamin Harrison, whose name had been mentioned for a Cabinet post.36 Thompson, who was sixty-seven years old, was much less a threat than the
                    promising Harrison; Morton wanted no Republican presidential contender from Indiana on the horizon
                    besides himself. Moreover, Morton was in Thompson's debt. Thompson had not challenged
                    Morton for the Republican senatorial nomination in 1876 and had even given a nominating speech for
                    Morton at the Republican convention.37 Still, Morton undoubtedly had other
                    political friends or creditors, so what Thompson had to offer as a Cabinet appointee is worth
                    considering.
            Although he is never mentioned in Woodward's Reunion and Reaction,
                    Thompson's political profile suggests worthy credentials for a president interested in
                    sectional compromise on the 1877 model. Thompson was, of course, a former Whig interested in
                    internal improvements and especially in railroads. He also held conservative views on the race
                        issue.38 Southerners grasped the significance of Thompson's
                    appointment 
                  "almost whimsical" (p. 416). Charles Richard Williams calls Thompson
                            "the weakest appointment" in his Life of Hayes, II, 31.
                            Davison's Presidency of Hayes says Thompson's was the
                            "only" appointment made primarily "for partisan reasons, and
                            Hayes ultimately dismissed him in the public interest" (p. 95). He characterizes
                            Thompson's naval policies as "unimaginative" (p. 113).
                            Eckenrode's Rutherford B. Hayes agrees (p. 242). Barnhart and
                            Carmony give a more favorable impression of Thompson's fitness for Hayes'
                            cabinet in Indiana, II, 311. They stress his agreement with
                            Hayes' policies on reconciliation with the South and sound money, and discuss his
                            administrative accomplishments as secretary of the navy.
                  
                     36 Roll refutes the charge on page 211 of his biography of Thompson.
                            William R. Holloway acted as Morton's intermediary in the Cabinet negotiations, but
                            nothing in his papers at 
                                Butler
                             University or at the Rutherford B. Hayes Library gives a clue to the nature of
                            the negotiations.
                  
                     37 Bradsby, History of 
                                    Vigo County
                                , 401; Foulke, Life of Morton, II, 398; Davison, Presidency of Hayes, 28; Roll, Colonel Dick Thompson,
                            206–207.
                  
                     38 In the Speech of R. W. Thompson upon the Political
                                Aspects of the Slavery Question, Made at a Public Meeting of the People, in Terre-Haute,
                                Indiana, on the 11th Day of August, 1855 (
                                Terre Haute
                            , 1855), Thompson admitted only that the slavery question was a moral one in the
                            abstract (p. 6). He approached endorsing the biblical argument for slavery on page 7 of the
                            pamphlet: "In this form it existed in the days of Moses, and yet there is not one
                            word in all his writings that condemns it as immoral. It existed as a political institution—intertwined with the Jewish polity, and
                            as such, he let it alone, except so far as he regulated
                            it by law." Thompson's appropriateness for Hayes' sectional
                            program is discussed in Davison, Presidency of Hayes, 112, and Roll, Colonel Dick Thompson, 212–13.
               
                     immediately. Joseph Hodgson of Mobile, 
                        Alabama
                    , wrote the Hoosier in November, 1877: "To me, not the least of the
                    President's good offices to the South & the whole Union, has been your own
                    accession to the Navy office. The Whigs of the South remember you with pleasure and you may rest
                    assured that no member of the cabinet stands higher in our esteem than you."39 Another southern correspondent recognized Thompson's virtues and endorsed
                    Hayes' suspicion that the Catholic issue had been noticed in the South. An 
                        Atlanta
                     man named 
                        Mitchell
                     wrote Thompson as early as April, 1877, advising him that Hayes really had "no
                    following amongst ex-Confederates." To disrupt "the Confederate and Papal
                    Coalition," Congress "should grant you aid to transport all colored persons to
                    Africa who desire to go." Only in this way could southern whites be weaned from the
                    Democrats to fight "
                        Rome
                     and Rebellion." 
                        Mitchell
                    , at least, recognized Thompson's sectional and religious attributes
                        immediately.40
            
            Thompson and Hayes were in substantial agreement on the religious question, though Thompson was a
                    former Know Nothing and Hayes was not. Indiana's Know Nothing party had been much more
                    anti-Catholic than antiforeign. Know Nothing Schuyler Colfax, for example, held "that
                    Principles and character, not birth place, are the true test of genuine Americanism—that
                    Protestant foreigners, who join sincerely in the vindication of Spiritual Freedom, a Free Bible,
                    Free Schools and Free Labor as pillars of a Free Republic, should not be proscribed, but on the
                    contrary, welcomed."41 The 1856 Address of the Fillmore
                        State Convention to the People of Indiana, which Thompson signed, denounced
                    "foreign influence … in our elections" in general but seems to have
                    meant only "that exercise of any temporal authority by the Pope, in this country, in the
                    control of our elections, would be attended with the most alarming consequence."42
            
            
               
                  39 Joseph Hodgson to Richard W. Thompson, November 14, 1877, Thompson
                        Collection (Lincoln Life Foundation). Thompson even had some connections with Thomas A. Scott of
                        the 
                            Texas
                         and Pacific Railroad Company, a key institution (according to Woodward) in the
                        Compromise of 1877. See Thomas A. Scott to Richard W. Thompson, March 24, 1873, ibid.
               
               
                  40 J. Mitchell to Richard W. Thompson, April 24, 1877, ibid.
               
               
                  41 Quoted in Smith, Schuyler Colfax, 59–60.
               
                  42 Richard W. Thompson et al., Address of the Fillmore State
                            Convention to the People of Indiana (n.p., n.d.), 15. The pamphlet can be found in the
                        Pamphlet Collection (Lincoln Life Foundation).
            
            
            Thompson shared Hayes' anxiety over the question of the use of the Bible in the public
                    schools, as his manuscript entitled "An Examination into the Relationship which the State
                    bears to our Common School System and its responsibilities, obligations, and duties in reference to
                    it" shows. Writing during or just before 1876, Thompson defined the primary purpose of the
                    common school system to be the socialization and not the intellectual stimulation of students:
                        
                        it is the duty of the state to see that they are so trained and educated as to fully
                            understand all the complex machinery of our government, so that if hereafter another
                            impartial De Tocqueville shall visit this country he may transmit to Europe the intelligence
                            that there is not one man amongst us who, on the score of intelligence, is not worthy of
                            American citizenship. Of course, I do not here mean education in its enlarged sense, but
                            that which is necessary to fit them for intelligent action upon all public affairs.43
                  
                     To discharge its duty properly the state had to compel every person to receive a common
                    school education or its equivalent. Hayes always claimed to be warding off a sectarian assault on
                    the public schools, and his posture was defensive. Thompson's recommendations were stronger
                    in tone. Asserting that the child must be educated "in the duties of American
                    citizenship," Thompson sharply denied any man the "right to stunt and dwarf the
                    intellect of his child, or to prevent him from acquiring intelligence enough to discharge all his
                    duties to Society and the State …." And, Thompson went on, "if he
                    defiantly asserts such right it is the duty of the State to provide by law that he shall subordinate
                    his own selfish interests to the public welfare."44 Thompson's
                    conception of the "duties of American citizenship" was not at all secular. He
                    declared that "to my mind it is clearly the duty of the State, imposed by the ordinance of
                    1787, & by the spirit of our institutions, to provide that our children shall be educated as
                    Christians & not as Pagans, that is that they shall be taught the kind of religion which the
                    fathers meant which inculcates a sense of duty to God as the creator, and the virtue &
                    morality which is its necessary fruit."45 Thompson clearly saw the
                    Protestant Bible 
                  
                     43 Richard W. Thompson, "An Examination into the Relationship
                            which the State bears to our Common School System …," undated manuscript
                            in the Richard W. Thompson Collection (Rutherford B. Hayes Library, 
                        Fremont, Ohio
                     ), 20–21.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 23.
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., 39. Thompson attempted to put a moderate face on his proposals by
                            saying, "I would not consent even if it were possible under
               
                     as part of this crucial faith of the founding fathers:
                    "The Bible was put in its present [King James] form,—shorn of its former
                    errors,—just in time [1611] to be brought to America by the colonists at 
                        Jamestown
                     and 
                        Plymouth Rock
                    , and thereby to become the basis of our institutions;— for as we learn by
                    its teachings that no human authority has the right to intervene between our Creator and ourselves,
                    so we are impressed with that degree of personal responsibility which induces the enactment of
                    wholesome laws and inculcates obedience to them."46
            
            Election year 1876 witnessed an especially prodigious output on the Catholic question for Thompson,
                    for it was the year his book The Papacy and the Civil Power was published.
                    Thompson attempted some moderation in tone in the book by distinguishing between clergy and laity to
                    the advantage of the latter and devoting some 500 of the book's 750 pages to a fairly
                    detailed explication of European church history. Lyman Abbott found the book "strong
                    without being rancid—a rare thing in anti-Catholic literature."47 Thompson meant the book, however, not for "the educated classes, who have the
                    means of making like inquiries for themselves," but "for the
                    people." Though many could remember "when there were very few Roman Catholics
                    in the 
                        United States
                    , compared with the bulk of the population," the startling increase in the
                    decade of the 1860s had made them one sixth of the population. A similar rate of increase, Thompson
                    warned, would have them outnumbering the Protestants by 1904. He did not fear risking the
                    "animosity and anathemas of such as pay for the protection our institutions give them by
                    Jesuitical plottings to establish a ‘Holy Empire’ upon their ruins"
                    in order to warn the nation of the rising Catholic menace.48
            
            
               the constitution to do it, to see the particular faith of the Episcopalian, Baptist,
                        Methodist, Roman Catholic or any other Church taught." But to exclude a sectarian
                        outlook was not to exclude a generally Protestant outlook.
               
                  46 Richard W. Thompson, ["Bible"], undated, untitled
                        manuscript, Thompson Collection (Hayes Library). More than likely this and the
                        "Examination" cited in footnote 43 above were texts for "lay
                        sermons" which Thompson delivered before audiences. There is a series of "lay
                        sermons" (so called) in the Thompson Collection (Hayes Library).
               
                  47 Lyman Abbott to Richard W. Thompson (n.d.), Thompson Collection
                        (Lincoln Life Foundation).
               
                  48 Richard W. Thompson, The Papacy and the Civil Power (
                            New York
                        , 1876), 8, 19, 20. A copy can be found in the Indiana Division, Indiana State
                        Library.
            
            
            To be sure, Thompson admitted, the vast Catholic laity were still loyal to the 
                        United States
                     and had fought to save the Union in the late war, but the priests were loyal only to 
                        Rome
                    . A "large" number of priests had "sympathized with all the
                    measures which were designed to break up the Union and destroy our institutions" during the
                    Civil War. Their ends remained the same still, as the pope's 1864 Syllabus of Errors and
                    the 1870 declaration of papal infallibility revealed. The former condemned essentials of the
                    American Constitution: free speech, freedom of the press, and religious freedom. The latter,
                    according to Thompson, meant that those views must be appropriated by the American clergy and
                        laity.49
            
            According to Thompson, the recent developments in papal policy represented an attack on the American
                    Constitution. This was not because "religion, in the Protestant sense, is established by
                    law" in America, but because Protestantism, which "recognizes no system of faith
                    and worship to the exclusion of others," had given America the fundamental principle of
                    religious toleration. America, he claimed, was so careful to protect this principle that it
                    "confides the public schools to men of every faith, and of none. It maintains
                    ‘unChristian,’ or, as they choose to call them, ‘godless
                    schools.’" Thompson was being less than candid. If there were
                    "unChristian" public schools in America, he did not approve of them. His
                    manuscript on the relation of the state to the common schools had urged that it was the imperative
                    duty of the state to provide religious instruction. In truth, it was not the constitutional purity
                    but the religious identity of the 
                        United States
                     that Thompson was intent upon maintaining. He even defended the description of the 
                        United States
                     as "a Protestant country."50
            
            Thompson's ability to recommend specific measures to counter the Catholic menace was
                    constantly impeded by his public pose; he was supposed to be saving American religious tolerance
                    from Catholic intolerance. Whenever he formulated a specific policy (as on the public school
                    question), Thompson involved himself in inconsistencies. Thus The Papacy and the Civil
                        Power confined itself largely to a lengthy retelling of the Protestant version of history
                    and to vague threats: "Let us begin in time to guard our national heritage, and, while we
                        
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., 27.
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., 55, 57, 183.
               
                     are not required to do any thing in violation of the tolerant
                    principles of our Government, we can so shield them from the assaults of foreign imperialism, that
                    the blows aimed at them by their assailant will rebound upon their own heads." Short of
                    prescribing a specific program, however, the following threat must have had as clear a meaning to
                    Catholics as the "House Divided" doctrine had had for the antebellum South:
                    "if these principles [embodied in Pope Pius IX's encyclical and Syllabus of Errors
                    of 1864] should prevail here, our institutions would necessarily fall. The two can not exist
                    together. They are in open and direct antagonism with the fundamental theory of our Government, and
                    of all popular government everywhere."51
            
            Thompson always identified the Catholic menace as a political rather than a religious problem, that
                    is, as an assault upon the American Constitution rather than upon the religion of the Protestant
                    majority. The state and not the church, therefore, possessed the proper means of defense. With this
                    argument Thompson preserved his fidelity to religious toleration. He did not attack any religious
                    doctrines (having to do with the sacraments, for example); he attacked only
                    "politico-religious" doctrines dictating Catholic interference in the
                        government.52
            
            Thompson concentrated on papal claims to temporal power, especially as outlined in the 1864 Syllabus
                    of Errors and the 1870 decree of infallibility. These not only violated traditional American notions
                    of separation of church and state, but, he intimated, identified Catholicism with monarchism.
                    Thompson admitted that the accusation "that the pope desires to absorb in his own hands all the powers of civil government elsewhere than in 
                        Rome
                    " was probably too broad. Yet only thirty-two pages later, he said that Pope
                    Pius IX was "endeavoring to break down the lines of separation between all the nations, and
                    to resolve the world into one great ‘Christian commonwealth’—a
                    grand ‘holy empire’—subject to his single will, and bowing before
                    his single sceptre!" To Thompson's mind the eightieth article of the
                    Syllabus of Errors, which stated the pope's hostility to progress, liberalism, and modern
                    civilization, seemed be aimed directly at the 
                        United States
                    , for the 
                        United States
                     had carried those principles the 
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., 194, 209.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., 3.
               
                     farthest. A conspiracy against the 
                        United States
                     was implicit in the sixty-third article as well because it condemned "the
                    principle that ‘it is allowable to refuse obedience to legitimate princes, nay, more, to
                    rise in insurrection against them.’" This identified the Catholic cause
                    politically with the opposite of the American political system: 
                        Our Declaration of Independence asserts this right of resistance to unjust princes
                            … it would follow, if his [the pope's] teachings should prevail, that,
                            as our Revolution was against God's law, therefore all the rights we have acquired
                            by it are void, and it will be his duty, if he can, to remit us back again to our original
                            state of dependence, and compel us to admit the divine right of kings to govern all mankind,
                            and of the pope to govern the kings!53
                  
                    
            
            Thompson associated Catholicism with monarchism by means of a familiar historical myth. As in his
                    speech before 
                        Terre Haute
                    's 
                        New England
                     Society, Thompson found lessons for America even in English history because
                    "we trace the birth of our popular institutions back to the great uprising of the
                    people" in the English Reformation. "The native Britons," he asserted,
                    "had their own form of Christianity, existing apart from their Druidical worship, which, in
                    whatsoever way it was acquired, they believed to be of apostolic origin." This meant
                    definitely that "the monk Augustine" did not bring Christianity to Britain in 597
                    (as Catholics claimed) and that the apostle Paul may have brought it much earlier
                    (and in a much purer form).54 From this point on, the story was more complex
                    than it had been in the 
                        New England
                     Society address. The Saxons, who conquered the native Britons, were pagans, but they
                    were a source of political virtue, for "they were not then governed without their own
                    consent, even by their kings." There was "no evidence that they ever interfered
                    with" the religion "of the native Britons until after their kings yielded to the
                    influence of 
                        Rome
                    !" Thompson suggested that the Saxons influenced the Britons with
                    their "Teutonic" political genius for liberty, and the Britons influenced the
                    pagan Saxons with their pure Christianity. So powerful was this progressive amalgam that eventually
                    the pope could no longer trust the Saxons to rule and had to encourage the 
                        Norman
                     invasion to carry "into 
                        England
                     a fresh supply of papal influences." The English Reformation later 
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., 164, 196, 212, 219.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., 423, 423–24, 424.
               
                    
                    
                  RICHARD W. THOMPSON AGE 87
                  Reproduced from Richard W. Thompson
                            Memorial (
                                St. Joseph
                            , Mich., 1906), [154].
               
                     rejected this alien, impure religion and this alien, illiberal
                    political system.55
            
            There is no direct proof that Thompson's anti-Catholicism had any effect on Hayes'
                    selection of Thompson as secretary of the navy, or even that Hayes knew of it. Hayes'
                    personal library does contain a copy of The Papacy and the Civil Power inscribed
                    by Thompson to the president, but the inscription is dated 1878.56 Although most
                    accounts agree that Morton played an important part in the decision, Morton's desiderata
                    are also unknown. Morton was well aware, however, of the importance of the Catholic issue to the
                    Republican party.
            The Indiana senator had played a part in the debate on Blaine's proposed amendment. When one
                    senator had protested that the danger the amendment was supposed to meet was nonexistent, Morton had
                    thundered: "Well, Mr. President, in my judgment there is danger. That cloud is looming
                    above the horizon; it is larger than it was a few years ago." When even "one
                    State" supported "denominational schools" with public funds, it
                    endangered "the perpetuity of the nation," Morton had claimed. Accused of trying
                    to create a new issue as a substitute for the race issue, Morton had replied that the amendment was
                    drawn "for the purpose of meeting a strong feeling throughout the nation, for the purpose
                    of allaying a great fear."57
            
            Whatever the considerations of Morton and Hayes in deciding the composition of the Cabinet, they
                    certainly would not have deemed Thompson's anti-Catholicism a liability, for it meshed
                    perfectly with the recent thrust of the Republican party and the personal political stances of both
                    men. And at least one Catholic critic did not overlook the fact that Thompson's book
                    appeared "during the Presidential canvass."58
            
            As secretary of the navy, Thompson could not influence policy toward Catholics very strongly, but he
                    did have a chance to attack foreign influence in America. The only policy besides economy in
                    government with which he was strongly identified as navy secretary touched familiar themes: Thompson
                        
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., 438, 442, 439.
                  
                     56 The copy is in the Hayes Library.
                  
                     57
                            Congressional Record, 44 Cong., 1 Sess., 5585, 5592.
                  
                     58 F. X. Weniger, Reply to Hon. R. W. Thompson, Secretary
                                of the Navy, Addressed to the American People … (
                                New York
                            , 1877), 1. A copy can be found in the Hayes Library.
               
                     became an advocate of reducing the navy's dependence
                    on foreigners for seamen. Naval reformers had been trying to make the service more attractive to
                    native Americans for at least fifty years. John Quincy Adams' secretary of the navy, Samuel
                    Southard, had recommended as early as 1825 that even naturalized immigrants be excluded from naval
                    service. In 1837 Congress tried to solve the problem by passing a bill providing for the recruitment
                    of naval apprentices, eighteen years of age, who they hoped would be native Americans. Enlisting
                    only with their parents' consent, these boys would serve as apprentices until they reached
                    twenty-one years of age, at which time, it was hoped, they would reenlist to become the crews of
                    America's men of war. By and large, the plan failed. Recruited from the large cities on the
                    coast, the apprentices were themselves frequently of foreign birth or parentage and usually failed
                    to become dependable sailors.59
            
            Thompson brought renewed administrative energy to the old program. Although his immediate predecessor
                    in the office began the new effort at the behest of Congress, Thompson emphasized the apprentice
                    program in all of his annual reports. He tried to remedy the proven fault of the older program by
                    initiating a program of enlistments in the country's interior. He seemed to take a special
                    interest in the program, inspecting the training ships personally and awarding meals to promising
                    boys. He procured passage of a law increasing the number of apprentices. There was nothing overtly
                    anti-Catholic in the apprentice program, and one historian of naval reform specifically denies that
                    the apprentice movement was akin to political nativism ashore: "Unlike the later Native
                    American political movement in the country, the concern of the naval reformers over the foreigners
                    was not connected with religion. It was more a matter of national pride and of wondering how
                    reliable such types might be in the event of war."60
            
            Thompson's last annual report injected a new note: he would make the program more effective
                    by giving to it a reformatory character. Naval regulations already forbade the 
                  
                     59 Harold D. Langley, Social Reform in the 
                                    United States
                                 Navy, 1788–1862 (
                                Urbana
                            , 1967), 88, 95.
                  
                     60 U.S., House Executive Documents, 46 Cong., 2
                            Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 1909), 19–20; ibid., 45 Cong., 3 Sess.
                            (U.S. Serial Set 1849), 30–32; Langley, Social Reform in the
                            Navy, 275.
               
                     boys to draw the normal rations of tobacco and grog. There was
                    nothing specifically religious in Thompson's statement; he may have had nothing more than
                    tobacco and grog in mind. However, Thompson had invited naval chaplains to submit recommendations
                    for the service in 1878, and one, Chaplain W. O. Holway, had advised him to create a head of the
                    Chaplain Corps "to assist in [among other things] the scheme of training boys for the naval
                    service." Whether Thompson followed up on the recommendation or contemplated religious
                    instruction for the apprentices is unknown, but he did believe that the state was obliged to give
                    religious training to America's youth. Had such a program been instituted, it would have
                    provided Protestant training; until 1888 there were no Roman Catholic chaplains in the 
                        United States
                     Navy.61
            
            None of Thompson's actions described thus far was unrelated to politics. Know Nothingism was
                    itself a party movement. The subjects of Thompson's speeches and writings in the 1870s were
                    the stock in trade of midwestern Republican politicians; The Papacy and the Civil
                    Power even appeared in an election year. There is no direct proof that Thompson's
                    career as secretary of the navy involved actions aimed specifically at Catholics. But his writings
                    of the 1890s provide substantial evidence that Thompson was a sincere anti-Catholic and that
                    therefore at least one midwestern Know Nothing found the party's anti-Catholicism as
                    congenial as its nationalism. By then he was over eighty years old. He had claimed as early as the
                    1850s and 1860s to have given up political ambitions. His claim seems premature in light of his
                    actions in 1876, but surely he no longer lusted after public office by the 1890s. He no longer
                    needed to think of the electorate or the party when he made public utterances. He could then, if he
                    had not done so before, speak his own mind.
            
               
                  61 U.S., House Executive Documents, 46 Cong., 3 Sess.
                        (U.S. Serial Set 1958), 23–24; Langley, Social Reform in the Navy,
                        108, Clifford Merrill Drury, The History of the Chaplain Corps, 
                                United States
                             Navy. Volume I, 1778–1939 (
                            Washington
                        , 1949), 111, 100. Prior to 1862 attendance at shipboard religious services was
                        required; after that date the navy merely recommended it. Catholics complained of having to
                        attend Protestant services. When Thompson inspected Captain S. B. Luce's training ship
                        in 1879, Luce "pointed to the large number of Bibles it contained, and said he stated
                        with regret that they had not been generally used, most of them never having left the
                        shelves." See "The Great Naval Function," clipping from the Army and Navy Herald, October 19, 1879, in the Thompson Collection (Hayes
                        Library).
            
            
            The result was an outpouring of anti-Catholic literature that exceeded even his product in the
                    turmoil of the 1870s, when the Syllabus of Errors, the declaration of papal infallibility, attacks
                    on the use of the Bible in the public schools, attempts to provide Catholic priests in public
                    institutions where only Protestants had been available before, and attempts to divide public school
                    funds had seemed to indicate a Catholic plot to capture America. In 1894 Thompson still feared a
                    conspiracy, and in that year he published a new book, The Footprints of the
                    Jesuits.
            
            The book began as an attack on the Jesuits, showing that the order had been condemned even by some
                    popes, hinting that the Jesuits might have poisoned Pope Clement XIII because he was about to
                    dissolve the order, condemning their insincere "Jesuitical" methods of
                    infiltrating other organizations, and accusing them of commitment to monarchism. In the end The Footprints of the Jesuits was a repetition of familiar themes, flowering into
                    an attack on the Catholic church in general because the reigning Pope Leo XIII was Jesuit trained.
                    In particular, it sounded the alarm for the public schools. The Jesuits' favorite modus operandi, said Thompson, was "to obtain the sole direction of
                    education," to hold the young "down to the low standard of passive and
                    ‘uninquiring obedience,’" and thus to "fit them to become
                    subservient slaves of monarchial and papal power."62
            
            By 1898 Thompson, practically ninety years old, had produced yet another manuscript for an
                    anti-Catholic book. Entitled "Christianity and Imperialism," the manuscript
                    consisted of almost three hundred pages written in a hand grown shaky with age. Political ambition
                    now certainly played no role, as Thompson himself asserted: "I have reached the period of
                    life when all the ambition I ever possessed has died away,—leaving nothing in my heart or
                    mind upon which either envy, hatred, or malice, can feed." He repeated his willingness to
                    live with people who believed in the real presence of Christ's body at the eucharist, as
                    long as they did not owe allegiance to a foreign power or demand that the state interfere with the
                    religious practices of others. He warned Americans about the dangers to the public schools but
                    devoted the bulk of the book to refutations of Catholic assertions that 
                  
                     62 Richard W. Thompson, The Footprints of the
                            Jesuits (
                                New York
                            , 1894), 336, 120.
               
                     the first church was in 
                        Rome
                    , that Peter was the "primary" apostle, and that Peter alone possessed
                    apostolic powers.63
            
            It would be wrong to conclude from the evidence in Thompson's case alone that previous
                    evaluations of midwestern Know Nothingism were wrong. Nothing in this article proves, even in
                    Thompson's single case, that the major appeal of the Know Nothing party in the 1850s was
                    its anti-Catholic platform. On the other hand evidence is as conclusive as history could demand that
                    Thompson was a life long anti-Catholic. It is safe to say, at the very least, that the anti-Catholic
                    platform of the Know Nothing party was no hindrance to Thompson's joining the movement. It
                    also seems safe to say that Thompson's relationship with the Know Nothing party has been
                    wrongly interpreted in the past.
            Roll knew that Thompson wrote The Papacy and the Civil Power and The
                        Footprints of the Jesuits when he wrote Thompson's biography. Yet so powerful was
                    the reigning interpretation of the midwestern Know Nothing movement that he attempted to force
                    Thompson into it despite evidence to the contrary revealed by his own research. Instead of
                    attempting to belittle the phenomenon of anti-Catholic Know Nothingism, perhaps historians should
                    begin to take note of its vote getting power and the persistence of its message later in the
                    century. In light of historians' interest in the attempts to revive Whiggery in the 1870s,
                    Thompson's career may suggest even that there was an attempt to revive Know Nothingism in
                    the same period.64 At least it can be said that Know Nothingism never died in
                    the hearts of some of its adherents.
            
               
                  83 Richard W. Thompson, "Christianity and Imperialism,"
                        1, 206, 47, 85–86, Thompson Collection (Hayes Library).
               
                  64 Allan Peskin's "Was There a Compromise of
                        1877?" dismisses as a "crank" a man who wrote James A. Garfield in
                        1877 claiming "that he could control the Know Nothing vote, insisting that
                        ‘the Knownothing party was still in existence in full blast, lying back like a
                        counchant lion waiting to spring when the time comes’" (p. 69).
            
         
         
         
            Joseph Moore: 
                        Quaker
                     Evolutionist
            William Cooper∗
            
            In America the evolution debate has been interpreted as a conflict between supporters and opponents
                    of Darwinism. In this context experimental science and liberal theology confronted teleological
                    natural science and fundamentalist religion. While this explanation has been useful for
                    understanding the general outlines of the conflict, it obscures and simplifies the variety and
                    diversity within evolutionary thought as well as its religious significance. Darwinism, grounded on
                    the belief that species evolved through a process of natural selection or survival of the fittest,
                    was not the only evolutionary theory; and neither evolution nor Darwinism were fixed and static.
                    They proved to be pliable and amorphous concepts having different meanings within different cultural
                    and intellectual traditions.1
            
            
               
                  ∗ William Cooper is a graduate student in the history of
                        science and technology at Case Western Reserve University, 
                     Cleveland, Ohio
                  .
               
                  1 For accounts that stress the unitary character of both sides in the
                        conflict over evolution see Richard Hofstadter, Social Darwinism in American
                            Thought (
                            Boston
                        , 1953), especially 13–30; John Dewey, The Influence of
                            Darwin on Philosophy (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1965); Bert James Loewenberg, "Darwinism Comes to America,
                        1859–1900," 
                     Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Review, XXVIII (December, 1941), 339–68; Bert James Loewenberg,
                        "The Reaction of American Scientists to Darwinism," American
                            Historical Review, XXXVIII (July, 1933), 687–701; Sidney Ratner,
                        "Evolution and the Rise of the Scientific Spirit in America," Philosophy of Science, III (January, 1936), 104–22. A. Hunter Dupree, Asa Gray, 1810–1888 (
                            Cambridge
                        , 
                            Mass.
                        , 1959) and Edward Lurie, Louis Agassiz: A Life in Science (
                            Chicago
                        , 1960) discuss the differences within evolutionary thought. John C. Greene,
                        "Darwin and Religion," Proceedings of the American Philosophical
                            Society, CIII (1959), 716–25, and Stow Persons, "Evolution and
                        Theology in America," in Stow Persons, ed., Evolutionary Thought in
                            America (
                            New Haven
                        , 1950), 422–53, give some notice to the variety in the religious
                        responses to evolution. For a thorough bibliography of recent Darwin studies see Bert James
                        Loewenberg, "Darwin and Darwin Studies, 1959–1963," History of Science: An Annual Review of Literature and Teaching, IV (1965),
                        15–54.
            
            
            One striking example of the variety and flexibility of the idea of evolution occurred in Indiana
                    during the mid-nineteenth century. As early as 1861, evolution, including Darwin's
                    interpretation, was taught to devout Quakers at Earlham College, 
                        Richmond
                    . The subject was introduced at the 
                        Quaker
                     institution by Joseph Moore, who had studied natural science at 
                        Lawrence
                     Scientific School, 
                        Harvard
                     University, when 
                        Harvard
                     was the center of the evolution debate. Dedicated to scientific truth, Moore adopted an
                    evolutionary perspective and adapted it to conform to the devout 
                        Quaker
                     beliefs he shared with his community. Concerned with a set of problems ignored in the
                    national debate, Moore struggled to find his own meaning in the new science, and his solution was
                    unique, imaginative, and courageous. Moore's 
                        Quaker
                     evolutionism exemplifies the diversity and variety among those who accepted and
                    defended this idea in America in the second half of the nineteenth century.
            Moore had entered 
                        Harvard
                     in the fall of 1859 with a commitment both to science and to his religion. From the
                    beginning of his education in rural 
                        Quaker
                     schools, Moore had trained himself in science. In 1853 his scientific knowledge had
                    earned him a teaching position at the Friends Boarding School in 
                        Richmond
                    . When Earlham College was created in 1859, Moore was named professor of natural
                    science, and funds were provided for his further scientific education. Other newly appointed faculty
                    studied at 
                        Haverford
                     College, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , also a 
                        Quaker
                     institution; but the famous Louis Agassiz and the chance for a quality education in
                    science attracted Moore to 
                        Harvard
                    .2
            
            From the beginning Moore's science was a manifestation of his religious commitments. His
                    early 
                        Quaker
                     training had instilled in the man a strong desire to serve God and to understand His
                    will and works, and Moore's science was devoted to these goals. For Moore nature was an
                    expression of God's mind and His will, and he sought to serve God 
                  
                     2 Biographical information on Joseph Moore was drawn from Opal
                            Thornburg, Earlham: The Story of the College, 1847–1962 (
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., 1963), 97–101, passim; The American Friend,
                            XII (Seventh month 20th, 1905), 475–76; Royal Davis, "A Biographical
                            Sketch," The Earlham College Bulletin, II (August, 1905),
                            9–12; Will E. Eddington, "Biographical Sketches of Indiana Scientists
                            Not Listed Elsewhere, I," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of
                                Science, LXX (1960), 186–87; autobiographical notes written by Joseph
                            Moore in April, 1893, typescript copy in Presidential Papers (Earlham Archives, 
                                Richmond
                            ). Thornburg, Earlham, 76–79, passim, discusses the founding of Earlham College.
               
                    
                    
                  JOSEPH MOORE
                  
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Earlham College, 
                        
                                    Richmond
                                , Indiana
                  
               
                     through the examination and observation of nature. Shortly
                    before his enrollment at 
                        Harvard
                    , Moore noted his growing confidence in his own scientific ability and what it meant to
                    him. "If there is aught for which I am thankful," he wrote in 1858, "it
                    is that I am endowed with a capacity to appreciate in some degrees the beauties
                    which God has so profusedly scattered around us and in these to trace His wisdom and read His
                    benevolent designs."3 At 
                        Harvard
                     the 
                        Quaker
                     intended to improve his own talents so that he could more effectively teach
                    coreligionists how to read God's wisdom and designs in nature.4
            
            The 
                        Harvard
                     that Moore entered in the fall of 1859 must have contrasted dramatically with his
                    expectations. The university was the center of complex changes rapidly transforming the character of
                    science in America from an amateur avocation to a specialized profession. In scientific education
                    specialized training and research methods were replacing the traditional gentlemanly study of
                    natural philosophy and natural history. At 
                        Harvard
                     Agassiz was collecting and classifying specimens to complete his massive Museum of
                    Comparative Anatomy which he had established as a national research institution. At the same time he
                    was actively cultivating a role for science and scientists in national affairs. Asa Gray labored in
                    a rapidly expanding herbarium that was the center for plant classification in North America.
                    Jeffries Wyman had earned an international reputation for his research in embryology and comparative
                        anatomy.5
            
            The debate over evolution, also centered at 
                        Harvard
                    , symbolized these changes in science. Agassiz defended the conventional scientific view
                    that species were immutable and uniquely created by God. Gray, in direct correspondence with Charles
                    Darwin, spoke for the origin of species by descent with modification based on material laws. Others,
                    including Wyman, cautiously weighed the scientific evidence but made no firm commitment to either
                    view. These alternatives were being debated as Moore entered 
                        Harvard
                    . When Darwin's Origin of Species reached America in
                    December, 1859, the 
                  
                     3 Joseph Moore diary, "Memoranda," Tenth month 22nd,
                            1858, Presidential Papers.
                  
                     4 Moore diary, Eleventh month 13th, 1859, Presidential Papers.
                  
                     5 The changes in the character of science in America and their
                            connection with the debate over evolution are discussed in Dupree, Asa
                            Gray, 216–83, passim; and Lurie, Louis
                                Agassiz, 252–302, passim. See also A. Hunter Dupree,
                                Science in the Federal Government: A History of Policies and Activities to
                                1940 (
                                Cambridge
                            , 
                                Mass.
                            , 1957), 135–48.
               
                     debate escalated and expanded to include theological as well as
                    scientific issues.6
            
            During his two year tenure at 
                        Harvard
                    , Moore carefully and cautiously pursued his scientific education within this climate of
                    controversy. Older than most of his fellow students and isolated by his 
                        Quaker
                     manners, Moore was suspicious of the general intellectual atmosphere at the university.
                    Shortly after arriving, he remarked on the "careless state of mind" prevalent
                    around him.7 Later he noted that he was surrounded by those who lightly valued
                    the teachings and doctrines of the divine record. He prayed that he be unshaken by the opinions of
                    others, "however learned or talented[,] who deny that Jesus Christ was true
                        God and perfect man."8 But Moore maintained
                    his faith that scientific truth and religious truth could not conflict. The controversy did not
                    intimidate him; he remained cautious, but his intellectual honesty and desire for knowledge
                    compelled him to consider all scientific ideas, however dangerous.
            Even if he had tried, Moore could hardly have avoided contact with the new evolutionary science. He
                    was in close contact with all the principal participants of the debate; he was enrolled in
                    Agassiz's geology and zoology classes, attended botany lectures by Gray, and studied
                    comparative anatomy and embryology with Wyman. The question of the origin of species and biological
                    evolution occupied a major portion of these classes. Moore's notebook and diary indicate
                    that he faithfully studied the ideas of each teacher and tried to understand their significance for
                    his own beliefs and ideas.9
            
            In the geology and zoology lectures that Moore attended, Agassiz attacked evolutionary theory with
                    vengeance. The 
                        Quaker
                     kept detailed notes of Agassiz's classification system and his violent attacks
                    on evolution or the "developmental hypothesis."10 The
                    professor forcefully outlined the scientific 
                  
                     6 Dupree, Asa Gray, 248–63; A. Hunter
                            Dupree, "The First Darwinian Debate in America: Gray versus Agassiz," Daedalus, LXXXVIII (Summer, 1959), 560–69; Lurie, Louis Agassiz, 252–302; A. Hunter Dupree, "Jeffries
                            Wyman's Views on Evolution," Isis, XLIV (September,
                            1953), 243–46.
                  
                     7 Moore diary, Eleventh month 29th, 1859, Presidential Papers.
                  
                     8 Moore diary, Seventh month 8th, 1860, Presidential Papers.
                  
                     9 Moore diary, especially Third month 13th, 1860; Joseph Moore, 
                                Harvard
                             class notebook, Presidential Papers.
                  
                     10 The notes from Moore's classes are contained in his 
                                Harvard
                             class notebook, Presidential Papers. Agassiz lumped all evolutionary theory,
                            including Darwin's, under the older term "developmental
                            hypothesis."
               
                     evidence in opposition to an evolutionary explanation, but he
                    was preoccupied with the theological implications of the new doctrine. For Agassiz the animal world
                    was a manifestation of the thoughts of the Creator and these thoughts were perfect and immutable.
                    Any apparent change in species was not a physical transmutation; rather, it was an intellectual
                    connection which existed in the mind of God. He felt that the development hypothesis denied the
                    existence of God's plan because the blind chance of material forces could not cause the
                    design evident in nature. At the same time the absence of design implied the absence of a Designer
                    or Creator; thus the development theory was atheistic and unacceptable. Agassiz challenged defenders
                    of evolution to demonstrate how and why the plan of the perfect Creator could or should be changed
                    once it had been expressed in its perfection.11
            
            The geologist's scientific ideas strongly influenced Moore and offered him the kind of
                    interpretation he sought. He shared Agassiz's conviction that the mind of God could be read
                    in nature. In particular Moore was impressed by Agassiz's theory of prophetic types, which
                    proposed that certain animals or "prophetic types" carried traits that became
                    distinct in later geological periods—types which could be used to account for any
                    evidence of a physical connection between species. Rather than providing a physical link between
                    species, prophetic types "foreshadowed" the development of new types in the
                    future. They provided clues to the character of later species and offered solid evidence that the
                    design of nature was known in advance of its execution. In addition to reinforcing Moore's
                    general approach to nature and providing him with specific ideas, Agassiz also taught the 
                        Quaker
                     the practical details of classification and museum management.12
            
            
               
                  11 Moore, 
                            Harvard
                         class notebook, Presidential Papers. Agassiz's most explicit statement of
                        his approach to nature is Louis Aggasiz, Essay on Classification, ed. by
                        Edward Lurie (
                            Cambridge
                        , 
                            Mass.
                        , 1962). For a discussion of Agassiz's interpretation of evolution see
                        Lurie, Louis Agassiz, 252–302; Edward Lurie, "Louis
                        Agassiz and the Idea of Evolution," Victorian Studies, III
                        (September, 1959), 87–108; Ernst Mayr, "Agassiz, Darwin, and
                        Evolution," 
                     
                                Harvard
                             Library Bulletin, XIII (Spring, 1959), 165–94.
               
                  12 Moore, 
                            Harvard
                         class notebook, Presidential Papers. [Louis Agassiz], "On the Differences
                        between Progressive, Embryonic, and Prophetic Types in the Succession of Organized Beings
                        through the whole Range of Geological Times," Proceedings of the American
                            Association for the Advancement of Science, II (1849), 432–38. Moore
                        discussed his training under Agassiz in Joseph Moore, "Louis Agassiz," The Guilford Collegian, III (May, 1891), 226–30.
            
            
            Despite his sympathy with Agassiz's perspective, however, Moore remained skeptical of the
                    professor's doctrine. His dogmatism and intolerance dissatisfied Moore and apparently he
                    doubted that Agassiz had given all the evidence for evolution a fair hearing. His class notes
                    suggest that he became bored with Agassiz's repetitious harangues against the developmental
                        theory.13 Several points in the geologist's theory may have
                    troubled Moore's 
                        Quaker
                     sensibilities. Agassiz's argument for a series of separate and complete
                    creations conflicted more with the standard biblical account that the developmental hypothesis, and
                    his assertion that races were different species contradicted the 
                        Quaker
                     doctrine of the brotherhood of all men. In addition, Moore might have found an
                    offensive flavor of unitarianism in Agassiz's ideas. An Indiana 
                        Quaker
                     cautioned Moore about the prevalence of unitarian ideas among his
                    "preceptors" at the university.14 Moore may have been
                    uncomfortable with Agassiz's abstract, omnipotent God that created and then sat back, only
                    later to destroy and recreate. The strongly deterministic cast of Agassiz's ideas were also
                    potentially disturbing. Moore's 
                        Quaker
                     beliefs in an "inner light" and man's capacity for direct
                    communication with God would have required proof of a continually acting God, one that was not only
                    omnipotent but also omnipresent in a personal and directly accessable form.
            Moore was equally skeptical of Gray, Agassiz's major opponent in the evolution debate.15 Gray asserted that Agassiz's position was "theistic to
                    excess," while Darwin's was "strictly scientific."16 Acknowledging that Darwin's theory 
                  
                     13 Moore, 
                                Harvard
                             class notebook, Presidential Papers. Later in his life Moore praised Agassiz
                            but remarked on his demanding character. Moore, "Louis Agassiz," and
                            Joseph Moore, "The Life of Agassiz," The Earlhamite,
                            XIII (March, 1886), 130–33.
                  
                     14 Elijah Coffin to Joseph Moore, Twelfth month 16th, 1859, photocopy
                            in Presidential Papers.
                  
                     15 Although Moore earned a degree in botany, Gray's
                            specialty, notes from Gray's lectures cannot be found among Moore's
                            scientific papers. In his class notebook Moore mentioned missing one of Agassiz's
                            lectures so that he could hear Gray speak. 
                                Harvard
                             class notebook, Presidential Papers. In autobiographical notes written in 1893
                            Moore noted that he studied botany under Gray. A typescript copy is in the Presidential
                            Papers.
                  
                     16 Asa Gray, "Review of Darwin's Theory on the
                            Origin of Species by means of Natural Selection," American Journal of
                                Science and Arts, 2nd series, XXIX (March, 1860), 156. For a full account of
                            Gray's position see Dupree, Asa Gray, 233–306, passim.
                  
               
                     was materialistic, Gray argued that this did not mean that it
                    was atheistic. Gray found no theological objection to the view that God enacted his design through
                    material causes and material laws: for the botanist God established laws and oversaw their material
                    action in order to implement his preconceived and preordained plan of creation. While this
                    interpretation appears more compatible with Moore's belief in an active and omnipresent
                    God, Moore apparently felt that Gray's defense of the new doctrine was inadequate. Moore
                    could not assent to a God that was merely a law giver and, in the end, Gray's God remained
                    as remote and abstract as that of Agassiz. Gray's interpretation was marred by the same
                    strong predeterminism as that of his colleague. Moore's notes and diary seem to suggest
                    that the theological implications of the evolution debate at 
                        Harvard
                     did not touch the core of his religious and intellectual concerns.
            Although Moore apparently never explicitly recorded his own reaction to evolutionary theory while at 
                        Harvard
                    , a reference to the developmental hypothesis in his class notebook reveals the issues
                    most important to him. Moore noted a pre-Darwinian attack on the developmental hypothesis by Hugh
                    Miller, the Scottish "lyrical geologist," and Agassiz's friend.17 In Foot-prints of the Creator Miller responded to The Vestiges of the National History of Creation, an early defense of evolution
                    published anonymously in 1844. In contrast to the theological issues debated by Gray and Agassiz,
                    Miller directed his primary concern to the moral and ethical implications of evolution. He argued
                    that the question of design was irrelevant for deciding scientific issues—a belief in a
                    First Cause was compatible with any theory of nature, including evolution—and pointed to
                    more important issues: that evolutionary theory denied the immortality of the soul and life after
                    death. Without these beliefs Christian morals and ethics were meaningless. The developmental
                    hypothesis denied the resurrection and man's hope for salvation. The hypothesis was not
                    necessarily atheistic, but Miller asserted that "a belief in the existence of God is of as
                    little ethical value as a belief in the existence of the great
                    sea-serpent" unless 
                  
                     17 Moore's reference to Miller's work appears under
                            the heading of "Animal life" in his 
                                Harvard
                             class notebook, Presidential Papers.
               
                     it is associated with man's morality and
                    responsibility within a scheme of salvation.18
            
            For Moore, Miller raised pragmatic religious and ethical issues ignored in the theological debate at 
                        Harvard
                    . Moore never questioned that evolution or any other scientific idea was compatible with
                    a belief in God, but he needed to know the significance of evolution for his absolute beliefs in an
                    "inner light," man's soul, the life eternal, and Jesus Christ as Saviour
                    and Redeemer. It appeared that until he clarified the practical meaning of evolution for these
                    beliefs, he could make no firm commitment to the theory.
            At 
                        Harvard
                    , Moore seems to have been most comfortable on the middle ground provided by Wyman.19 Unlike Agassiz, Wyman presented to his classes the evidence for both
                    interpretations of the origin of species. Moore recorded Wyman's discussion of
                    "prophetic types" and foreshadowing as well as evolutionary development. His
                    classroom demonstrations greatly impressed Moore and those classes were his favorites. From him
                    Moore acquired a dispassionate respect for the scientific evidence favoring evolution, as well as a
                    model for his own teaching. But Wyman intentionally provided no help in understanding the religious
                    implications of the doctrine.20
            
            Moore acquired much more than he bargained for from his scientific education at 
                        Harvard
                    . While he learned to read God's mind in nature with greater skill, this new
                    ability raised more questions than it answered. Moore's confusion was evident in his
                    statement that the most important thing 
                  
                     18 Hugh Miller, Foot-prints of the Creator; or, The
                                Asterolepis of Stromness: With Memoir by Louis Agassiz (Westmead, Farnborough,
                            Hants., 
                                England
                            , 1971), 17. For a discussion of Vestiges of the Natural History of
                                Creation and Miller and his work see Charles Coulston Gillispie, Genesis and Geology: A Study in the Relations of Scientific Thought, Natural Theology
                                and Social Opinion in Great Britain, 1790-1850 (
                                Cambridge
                            , 
                                Mass.
                            , 1951), 149–83.
                  
                     19 Moore diary, Third month 13th, 1860, Presidential Papers.
                  
                     20 Moore, 
                                Harvard
                             class notebook, Presidential Papers. For a discussion of Wyman's
                            position on evolution see Asa Gray, "Jeffries Wyman," in Charles Sprague
                            Sargent, ed., Scientific Papers of Asa Gray. Volume II, Essays, Biographical Sketches, 1841–1886 (
                                Boston
                            , 1889), 375–402; A. S. Packard, "Memoir of Jeffries Wyman,
                            1814–1874," National Academy of Sciences, Biographical
                                Memoirs, II (1886), 75–126; A. Hunter Dupree, "Jeffries
                            Wyman's Views on Evolution," Isis, XLIV (September,
                            1953), 243–46; A. Hunter Dupree, "Some Letters from Charles Darwin to
                            Jeffries Wyman," Isis, XLII (June, 1951), 104–10. See
                            also William Coleman, trans, and intro., The Interpretation of Animal Form:
                                Essays by Jeffries Wyman, Carl Gegenbaur, E. Ray Lankester, Henri Lacaze Duthiers,
                                Wilhelm His and H. Newel Martin, 1868–1888 (
                                New York
                            , 1967), xvii-xviii.
               
                     he learned at 
                        Harvard
                     was the limit of human intelligence. He expressed his frustration, as well as his
                    faith, in his assertion that "no man can know much in this life compared with what lies in
                    the realm of the vast unknown at which my mind sometimes aches with a
                    consciousness of its own incapacity and vague conception of what lies beyond the limits of the
                        known."21 The most difficult question that remained unanswered was
                    the religious meaning of evolution, and he was prepared to examine the new idea with fairness and
                    honesty. In 1861, armed with his new knowledge and its difficulties, Moore returned to Earlham
                    College to teach science to Indiana Quakers.
            Moore continued to struggle with the meaning of evolution throughout his life. Unable to ignore the
                    mounting favorable evidence, he was increasingly swayed toward the evolutionary interpretation. But
                    while his faith in the unity of truth convinced him that evolution could not conflict with his
                    religious beliefs, the religious significance of evolution continued to puzzle him. In the end,
                    Moore devised an interpretation quite different from that of Gray or Agassiz; but it was more than
                    fifteen years before he publicly presented a completed statement of his position.
            Moore's career in science reflected his 
                        Harvard
                     training. His professional activities were devoted to collecting fossils and specimens
                    for a natural history museum modeled on that of Agassiz. Although his research did not directly
                    relate to problems of evolution, his interest in paleontology brought him in continuing contact with
                    the evolutionary debate.22 In 
                  
                     21 Moore diary, Seventh month 16th, 1861, Presidential Papers.
                  
                     22 Moore's scientific accomplishments are outlined in the
                            biographical sources in footnote 2 above. See especially Eddington, "Biographical
                            Sketches," 186–87. To transform the cabinet that he had started at 
                                Harvard
                             into a museum of natural history, Moore traded specimens with other scientists,
                            including James Dana of Yale. James Dana to Joseph Moore, December 24, 1863, Presidential
                            Papers. Moore collected fifteen barrels of specimens for the museum during a trip to 
                                Hawaii
                             in 1874. Through his entrepreneurial efforts a new building was constructed at
                            Earlham to house the museum, and Moore served as curator and professor of geology. His major
                            scientific accomplishment was the recovery and reconstruction of the skeleton of the giant
                            fossil beaver (Castoroides ohioenais) which until recently was the only
                            complete skeleton of its type in existence. He published several papers in scholarly
                            scientific journals in connection with his work on this rare specimen. Moore was a charter
                            member of the Indiana Academy of Sciences and was named to a number of other societies
                            including the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Moore's
                            published papers included: Joseph Moore, "A Recent Find of Castoroides,"
                                American Naturalist, XXIV (August, 1890), 767–68; Joseph
                            Moore, "Concerning some portions of
               
                     his teaching Moore followed the example of Wyman. He tried to
                    present all available evidence and discuss all interpretations with tolerance and openness. For
                    textbooks he chose Agassiz's Essay on Classification as well as
                    Gray's Treatise on Plants, and he apparently made the Origin
                        of Species available to his students.23 Moore came to praise Darwin as
                    the most perceptive and careful observer of nature, and by 1876 he commented favorably on
                    Gray's interpretation of Darwin for the college newspaper.24
            
            Moore accepted evolution in the faith that scientific and religious truth could not conflict. He
                    noted that one should study the Bible and nature separately and then compare the results. Any
                    apparent conflict was a consequence of human ignorance and would be resolved with better
                    understanding. He criticized both scientists and clergy who distorted truth in an attempt to
                    reconcile the apparent conflicts. Moore believed that it was "almost irreverent to fix up
                    schemes to try to reconcile" them. If science seemed to conflict with scripture, he noted
                    that the best policy was to "wait and these differences will adjust
                        themselves."25
            
            But evolution was a sensitive topic in a religious community. Apparently not all Quakers had
                    Moore's faith or patience. Moore soon gained a reputation as a Darwinist and evolutionist
                    among his fellow Quakers. As the leading spokesman for science and a community leader, he was under
                    continual pressure to explain the new doctrine and its religious meaning to the general public.26 They would have 
                  Castoroides Ohioensis not heretofore known," Proceedings of the
                                American Association for the Advancement of Science, XXXIX (1890),
                            265–67; Joseph Moore, "Description of a New Species of Gigantic
                            Beaver-like Rodent," Journal of the 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Society of Natural History, XIII (April, 1890), 26–30;
                            Joseph Moore, "Correction Concerning Castoroides Georgiensis So
                            Called," Journal of the 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Society of Natural History, XIII (October, 1890), 103; Joseph Moore,
                            "Concerning a Skeleton of the Great Fossil Beaver, Castoroides
                                Ohioensis," Journal of the 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Society of Natural History, XIII (October, 1890), 138–69.
                  
                     23 Moore wrote to the superintendent of Earlham College outlining his
                            choice of books. Joseph Moore to Walter Carpenter, July 12, 1861, Presidential Papers. See
                            also the remarks by his student, Erastus Test, in Thornburg, Earlham, 100.
                  
                     24 Moore's comments on Darwin appear in an undated manuscript
                            for a lecture entitled "Fertilization in Flowering Plants," Presidential
                            Papers. The comments on Gray's work in The Earlhamite IV
                            (November, 1876), 47–48, are attributed to Moore.
                  
                     25 Joseph Moore, undated notepad, Presidential Papers. The first half
                            of the notepad contains notes concerning his Hawaiian trip which occurred in 1874.
                  
                     26 For Moore's reputation as an evolutionist see Thornburg,
                                Earlham, 97, 99, passim,. Lucy Moore Grave,
                            Moore's daughter, recalls the Quakers' concern with Moore's
                            evolutionism. "Conversation with Lucy
               
                     needed a clear and simple explanation that transcended the more
                    technical and qualified classroom treatment. When the appearance of Darwin's Descent of Man in 1871 refueled the controversy, Quakers were probably as concerned as
                    Moore to find a reassuring interpretation of the new scientific ideas.
            Moore was not alone in his search for alternative explanations of evolution. Like Moore a large
                    number of Agassiz's former students were convinced by the scientific evidence for
                    evolution. These students formed the nucleus of a group which explained evolution using the
                    principles developed by the early nineteenth century evolutionist, Jean Baptiste de Lamarck. Like
                    Darwin these neo-Lamarckians stressed the role of environment in the formation of new species. But
                    for them variations in species occurred through the activity and effort of the organism in its
                    environment. For neo-Lamarckians the change in animal characteristics induced by an
                    organism's own effort and will was retained and transmitted in reproduction; offspring
                    retained the acquired characteristics of their parents. The giraffe was a frequently cited and
                    dramatic illustration of this process. It purportedly acquired a long neck as a consequence of the
                    continual effort of stretching its neck to eat from high branches. For the neo-Lamarckians natural
                    selection played a minor role; species varied as a consequence of their own effort through the use
                    of their inherent internal powers and the subsequent transmission of acquired characteristics.27
            
            Moore's scattered comments on evolution after he left 
                        Harvard
                     show him groping toward a type of neo-Lamarckian explanation of evolution. In cryptic
                    notes of 1871 he wrote that "physical conditions change species by development …
                        
                  Moore Grave, Jan. 5, 1960," Presidential Papers. Moore was appointed a 
                                Quaker
                             minister in 1865. After the Civil War he organized schools in 
                                North Carolina
                             for the Friends. In 1869 he was named president of Earlham College, a position
                            he held for fourteen years. He visited the Hawaiian Islands for religious and scientific
                            purposes in 1874. He later returned to 
                                North Carolina
                             and was instrumental in founding Guilford College. He received honorary degrees
                            from Indiana University and Haverford College.
                  
                     27 Edward J. Pfeifer, "The Genesis of American
                            Neo-Lamarckianism," Isis, LVI (Summer, 1965), 156–67.
                            For a discussion of the Lamarckian interpretation of evolution and its relationship to
                            Darwinism see Loren Eiseley, Darwin's Century: Evolution and the Men
                                Who Discovered It (
                                Garden City
                            , 1958), 46–52, passim; Charles Coulston Gillispie, "Lamarck
                            and Darwin in the History of Science," in Bentley Glass, Owsei Temkin, and William
                            L. Straus, Jr., eds., Forerunners of Darwin: 1745–1859 (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1959), 265–91; Charles Coulston Gillispie, "The formation
                            of Lamarck's evolutionary theory," Archive Internationales
                                d'Histoire des Sciences, IX (October-December, 1956),
                        323–38.
               
                     certainly kill out many."28 He
                    concluded that life was determined by geographic and climatic conditions but that geological proof
                    of this fact was limited. At the same time he also observed that varieties might be considered
                    incipient species and praised Agassiz's idea of prophetic types. Moore's only
                    marginal note in his own copy of Gray's Darwiniana also reveals an
                    implicit neo-Lamarckianism. In response to a discussion of the relationship between eating habits
                    and variation in species, Moore noted that Hawaiian chiefs had become almost a different race from
                    the common people. This note suggests that he believed species could vary themselves as a
                    consequence of their environmental conditions, in this case what they ate.29
            
            Moore had direct contact with the neo-Lamarckians through E. D. Cope, their acknowledged leader, who,
                    like Moore, was a 
                        Quaker
                     and sensitive to the same issues that troubled Moore. Moore was particularly influenced
                    by a lecture that Cope delivered at the 
                        Franklin
                     Institute in 1874 titled "Consciousness in Evolution." Cope found a
                    meaning for the evidence of design in nature quite different from that of Agassiz and Gray. Since
                    animal structures evolved as a consequence of the effort or use exerted by the animal, Cope argued
                    that the design displayed in nature was an expression of the intelligence possessed by the animal
                    itself. Evidence of design demonstrated that animal evolution was a continual process of the
                    extension and development of consciousness or mind in individual organisms. Whenever consciousness
                    had developed in a species, the species had evolved to a higher form. When consciousness gave way to
                    habit and inaction, the evolution stopped. For Cope intelligence was located in the individual
                    species and design was an expression of individual intelligence. At the same time the increasing
                    complexity of design evident in nature demonstrated the continual development of individual
                    consciousness or mind.30
            
            
               
                  28 Joseph Moore diary for 1871, Presidential Papers.
               
                  29 Moore's personal copy of Asa Gray, Darwiniana:
                            Essays and Reviews Pertaining to Darwinism (
                            New York
                        , 1876), 28–29, Earlham Archives.
               
                  30 E. D. Cope, "Consciousness in Evolution," Penn Monthly VI (August, 1875), 560–75. More kept an offprint of
                        this article, signed by the author, among his scientific papers, Presidential Papers. Cope and
                        the nature of his evolutionary ideas are discussed in the outdated and uncritical biography by
                        his student, Henry Fairfield Osborn, Cope: Master Naturalist (
                            Princeton
                        , 1931), 527–54.
            
            
            For someone attempting to discover the Christian meaning of biological evolution the neo-Lamarckian
                    explanation offered a number of interesting possibilities. The neo-Lamarckians reintroduced the
                    importance of individual consciousness and the role of individual effort into the evolutionary
                    process. This consciousness could be interpreted as the working of a kind of "inner
                    light" in each individual and as evidence of God working through the individual. The
                    emphasis on the effort of the individual organism in the neo-Lamarckian explanation was compatible
                    with an emphasis on the moral and spiritual effort of individuals and their responsibility for moral
                    effort. The need for individual effort in development meant that the course of evolution was not
                    predetermined or preordained. Similarly, the evolution of consciousness and the continual
                    development of mind introduced an immaterial, spiritual aspect to the evolutionary process. This
                    opened the possibility that man might develop or evolve spiritually as an individual and as a
                    species.
            Shortly after reading Cope, Moore explored these possibilities. He presented his long awaited
                    interpretation of the meaning of evolution in a public lecture titled "Coming Events Cast
                    Their Shadow Before."31 This lecture was built around
                    Agassiz's idea of prophetic types and foreshadowing. From the evidence of prophetic types
                    Moore deduced a great law of foreshadowing. He explained that the geological formation of the earth
                    foreshadowed the course of the development of plant and animal life as well as the course of
                    man's development and the development of human civilization. The clearest example of
                    foreshadowing, Moore suggested, was in animal structures. For example, the brain and the spinal
                    structure of early fishes were prophets of the physical characteristics of man. Man was a perfect
                    fulfillment of these early prophecies; he had the most perfect brain and the most perfect hands and
                    he was perfectly upright. Man was most ideally adapted to the physical conditions of the present and
                    this occurred through the physical process of adaptation.
            
               
                  31 Joseph Moore, "Coming Events Cast Their Shadow
                        Before," n.d., Presidential Papers. The Earlhamite IV (December,
                        1876), 69, announced that Professor Moore was giving a series of public lectures on evolution.
                        It appears that "Coming Events" was part of this series. Other lecture notes
                        in his papers which closely follow the text of this lecture are dated as late as 1889.
            
            
            Then, drawing on neo-Lamarckian ideas Moore gave this physical evolution concrete religious and
                    ethical meaning. The evidence of the evolution of consciousness meant that man might evolve
                    spiritually. Man was like a prophetic type, foreshadowing future spiritual life and the development
                    of the soul. Although the scientific record seemed to indicate that man would not survive as a
                    species, it also suggested a spiritual evolution of consciousness beyond physical life, or a life
                    after death. The importance of effort in evolution also suggested to Moore the existence of an after
                    life. He cited evidence that the wants and desires of all animals in earlier ages had been
                    fulfilled. While animal wants were physical, man's highest wants were spiritual and the
                    strongest was a desire for eternal life. The evidence seemed to indicate to Moore that just as the
                    giraffe was not disappointed in its efforts to reach the highest branches, man would not be
                    disappointed in his spiritual desires. For man, spiritual effort in this life determined the nature
                    of spiritual life in the future. This affirmed the importance of morality and spiritual
                    responsibility here on earth. Moore noted that this was in accord with the scripture: the Old
                    Testament had foreshadowed the coming of Christ and His perfect life foreshadowed and promised a
                    life in the future.
            "Coming Events Cast Their Shadow Before" exemplifies what evolution meant to an
                    Indiana 
                        Quaker
                    . In it Moore successfully proved to himself and his community that there need be no
                    conflict between scientific ideas and religious beliefs. With imagination and integrity Moore
                    transformed Darwinsim into a form that had meaning within his cultural and religious tradition. As a
                    result he not only maintained an important role for science in a religious community but also
                    provided his fellow Quakers with strategies and weapons for dealing with the complex and challenging
                    developments in American culture symbolized by the debate and eventual acceptance of evolutionary
                    theory. Beginning with Moore faith in the essential unity of all knowledge and truth has been the
                    foundation of a strong scientific tradition at Earlham College.32
            
            
               
                  32 The continuing scientific tradition at Earlham is discussed by M.S.
                        Markle, "The Influence of Quakers on Science in Indiana," Procedings of the Indiana Academy of Science, LXIX (1960), 243–46. See also
                        Wilton N. Melhorn, "A Century and a Half of Geology in Indiana," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science, LXXVI (1967), 113.
            
         
         
         
            American Nationalism vs. The League of Nations: The Correspondence of Albert J. Beveridge and
                    Louis A. Coolidge, 1918–1920
            Sheldon M. Stern∗
            
            During the past two decades historians have added new dimensions to their evaluations of
                    progressivism. No longer viewed simply as the defensive response of middle class reformers to the
                    increasing power of the business community, progressivism emerges instead as a collection of
                    ambiguous and conflicting reform movements often initiated and controlled by the very forces
                    ostensibly targeted for reform, as a reassertion of moral traditions and democratic values which
                    frequently embraced racial prejudice and imperialism, and an effort to protect individual initiative
                    from corporate encroachment which often fostered business consolidation and the expansion of
                    government bureaucracy.1
            
            The career of Albert J. Beveridge of Indiana is symptomatic of the twisting and contradictory
                    currents characteristic of the progressive era. Beginning his national senatorial career in 1899 as
                    a militant expansionist and nationalist, Beveridge rose to prominence between the Spanish-American
                    War and the end of the Philippine insurrection in 1902 as an advocate of America's budding
                    empire. An orator of extraordinary skill, he advocated both moral mission and economic 
                  
                     ∗ Sheldon M. Stern is assistant professor of history,
                            University of 
                        Massachusetts, Boston
                     .
                  
                     1 For recent bibliographical surveys on progressivism see Arthur S.
                            Link and William M. Leary, Jr., The Progressive Era and the Great War (
                                New York
                            , 1969), 1–67; David M. Kennedy, Progressivism: The
                                Critical Issues (
                                Boston
                            , 1971), 183–91.
               
                     opportunity as the complementary goals of America's
                    new international thrust.2
            
            By the early years of Theodore Roosevelt's administration, however, Beveridge began to
                    augment his expansive nationalism with the politically promising role of Senate insurgent. His
                    reform activities between 1903 and 1912, aimed at promoting social equilibrium by easing abuses
                    which threatened to incite social unrest, read like a litany of progressive causes. Beveridge
                    actively supported a department of commerce and a bureau of corporations, a lower tariff and a
                    neutral tariff commission, federal railroad regulation, a national meat inspection bill, income and
                    inheritance taxes, a federal child labor bill, and direct primaries.3
            
            Breaking with President William Howard Taft over the Payne-Aldrich tariff of 1909, Beveridge lost his
                    Senate seat in 1910 and turned with increasing eagerness to support Theodore Roosevelt's
                    return to presidential politics. Despite his reluctance to leave the Republican party, Beveridge
                    joined Roosevelt in the Progressive party crusade of 1912. The former senator's keynote
                    address at the party's national convention, in which he attacked covert corporate
                    corruption and outmoded notions of individualism, represented the high point in the moral-religious
                    rhetoric generated by the Progressive party. It is this aspect of Beveridge's career, from
                    insurgent to Progressive, that has captured most historical attention. Defeated as Progressive
                    candidate for governor of Indiana in 1912, Beveridge largely withdrew from politics to devote
                    himself to the multivolume biography of John Marshall which ultimately earned him the Pulitzer
                        Prize.4
            
            During the years which followed the demise of the Progressive party Beveridge altered his views on
                    domestic politics. Concerned by 1917 over the proliferation of centralized federal authority and
                    bureaucracy which he felt had overstepped the limited goal of safeguarding basic social justice,
                    Beveridge reversed field on virtually all his reform and Progressive 
                  
                     2 Albert J. Beveridge, Americans of To-Day and
                            To-Morrow (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1908); Claude Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era (
                                Cambridge
                            , 1932), 97–145; John Braeman, Albert J. Beveridge:
                                American Nationalist (
                                Chicago
                            , 1971), 42–67.
                  
                     3 Albert J. Beveridge, The Meaning of the Times and Other
                                Speeches (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1908); Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era,
                            208–309; Braeman, Albert J. Beveridge, 98–150.
                  
                     4 Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era,
                            333–454; Braeman, Albert J. Beveridge,
                        151–239.
               
                     positions. He moved, as George Mowry put it, "from an
                    ardent Progressive to a militant reactionary." Beveridge attacked all government controls
                    over corporations, defended the open shop and the suppression of strikers, denounced income and
                    inheritance taxes, and even endorsed the high tariff. His popularity as a Chamber of Commerce
                    speaker rose perceptibly.5
            
            Beveridge remained, however, a consistent expansionist and nationalist, emerging early in the First
                    World War as an opponent of the internationalist minded League to Enforce Peace. Bitterly denouncing
                    attempts to involve the 
                        United States
                     in any international organization, Beveridge became by 1918 a leading speaker in the
                    organized efforts to revise drastically or defeat totally Woodrow Wilson's League of
                    Nations proposal. Beveridge's position, the logical extension of his militant
                    interventionism of 1899, demanded that the 
                        United States
                     avoid any constriction of its freedom of action in world politics. Always an
                    expansionist, never an isolationist, Beveridge feared that the League of Nations would entangle the 
                        United States
                     in European politics and restrict the pursuit of American political and economic self
                    interest, particularly in Latin America and Asia.6
            
            This least known phase of Beveridge's career is clearly documented in his correspondence
                    with Louis Arthur Coolidge of 
                        Massachusetts
                    . The two men had met during Beveridge's first years in the Senate and had
                    corresponded as early as 1899; but it was after 1916, following Beveridge's purchase of a
                    home in 
                        Beverly Farms
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                    , and after their views on American national interests dovetailed, that their
                    correspondence increased dramatically.7 Coolidge, although never comfortable
                    with political insurgency and reform, had come to his post–1916 nationalist and
                    expansionist position by a path similar to that of Beveridge. Private secretary to Congressman Henry
                    Cabot Lodge from 1888 to 1891, and later a prominent 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        New York
                     political correspondent, Coolidge had worked closely with Lodge in 1898 
                  
                     5 Albert J. Beveridge, The State of the Nation (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1924), 92–199; George E. Mowry, Theodore Roosevelt and
                                the Progressive Movement (
                                New York
                            , 1960), 379; Braeman, Albert J. Beveridge, 254–88.
                  
                     6 Beveridge, State of the Nation, 1–43;
                            Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era, 496–513.
                  
                     7 Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, January 18, November 20,
                            1900, Louis A. Coolidge Papers (in the possession of John W. Coolidge, Jr., 
                                Marblehead
                            , 
                                Massachusetts
                            ).
               
                     to advance the cause of American empire.8
                    In 1904 Roosevelt named him director of the Republican literary bureau for the presidential
                    campaign. Coolidge's successful efforts in coordinating press and publicity matters and his
                    ability to work with both reform and conservative elements to create party unity eventually earned
                    him an appointment as assistant secretary of the treasury. Coolidge left 
                        Washington
                     in 1909, after more than twenty years of intimate contact with the centers of power in
                    the Republican party, to return to his native 
                        Massachusetts
                     to become treasurer and director of the United Shoe Machinery Company. In that capacity
                    he developed a far reaching plan for enhancing employee welfare while in turn obviating the need for
                    unionization and corrective legislation. In 1914 his reputation in employer-employee relations
                    earned him the chairmanship of the Welfare Work Department of the conservative, business oriented
                    National Civic Federation. As early as 1911, when the United Shoe Machinery Company was prosecuted
                    under the Sherman Antitrust Act, Coolidge began to write with increasing anxiety about the expanding
                    scope of federal power over business. During World War I Coolidge served on the three member Federal
                    Shipbuilding Wage Adjustment Board, only to resign in 1918 after denouncing federal intervention in
                    employer-employee relations.9
            
            By 1917 Beveridge and Coolidge agreed on the question of limiting federal power over business
                    freedom. But it was on the issue of unfettered American initiative in international affairs, as
                    challenged first by the efforts of the League to Enforce Peace and finally by Woodrow
                    Wilson's League Covenant, that the two men discovered ideological accord and began
                    practical cooperation. Their correspondence provides new insights into this phase of
                    Beveridge's career and is particularly significant since it has been largely overlooked
                        
                  
                     8 Louis A. Coolidge to Henry Cabot Lodge, July 27, July 31, August 6,
                            August 9, September 27, October 14, 1898, Henry Cabot Lodge Papers (
                                Massachusetts
                             Historical Society, 
                                Boston
                            ). Henry Cabot Lodge to Louis A. Coolidge, August 1, August 4, August 11, August
                            26, 1898, Coolidge Papers.
                  
                     9 Sherwin L. Cook, Louis A. Coolidge: The Man and the
                                Citizen (
                                Boston
                            , 1924), 10–23; Louis A. Coolidge to William Howard Taft, August 7,
                            1918, Coolidge Papers. For elaboration on Coolidge's entire career, see Sheldon M.
                            Stern, "The Evolution of a Reactionary: Louis A. Coolidge,
                            1900–1925," Mid-America, LVII (April, 1975),
                            89–105.
               
                     by Beveridge's two principal biographers.10 In addition, Coolidge's papers contain a significant Beveridge
                    letter which further clarifies the former senator's nascent anti-League position.11
            
            It should be stressed that Beveridge and Coolidge had deep mutual confidence and affection. Their
                    letters are candid, personal, and often witty. In one note, for example, Beveridge twitted Coolidge
                    on his business associations by labeling him, in Rooseveltian rhetoric, "a great malefactor
                    of wealth."12 Beveridge often confided personal views to Coolidge,
                    turned to him for advice on various topics, and sought help in revising speeches and articles. In
                    addition to their increasingly similar political views, the two men shared a common experience as
                    biographers. Coolidge had published a lengthy biography of Senator Orville
                    ∗∗∗H. Platt in 1910 and one of Ulysses S. Grant in 1917, while
                    Beveridge finished his first two volumes of the life of John Marshall in 1916 and 1919. Beveridge
                    admired Coolidge's work, openly expressing the hope that the Grant volume would inspire him
                    to complete the final two Marshall volumes.13
            
            By early 1918, however, the Beveridge-Coolidge correspondence came to be dominated by a single issue:
                    President Wilson's plan for American participation in an international league to assure
                    peace. Wilson's increasing preoccupation with a league as the war progressed and his ties
                    to the League to Enforce Peace, in which Republicans such as Taft and Elihu Root played leading
                    roles, convinced both Beveridge and Coolidge that the battle had to be waged before the president's final plan could be presented to the 
                        United States
                     Senate. Although they had personal ties to Lodge, who then chaired the Senate Foreign
                    Relations Committee, and had shared the 
                        Massachusetts
                     senator's expansionist ideas 
                  
                     10 Bowers, in Beveridge and the Progressive Era,
                            536, cites a single Beveridge letter to Coolidge; otherwise, neither Bowers nor Braeman in
                            his Albert J. Beveridge, mentions this relationship.
                  
                     11 Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, January 31, 1918,
                            Coolidge Papers. See pages 144–47 below for the photographic reproduction of this
                            newly discovered letter. The underlinings in the letter are not Beveridge's but
                            were added by a later reader.
                  
                     12 Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, April 3, 1916, Albert J.
                            Beveridge Papers, Box 205 (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
                  
                     13 Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, February 9, 1917; Louis
                            A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, February 13, 1917, Beveridge Papers, Box 208.
               
                     for some twenty years, Beveridge and Coolidge distrusted
                    Lodge's receptivity to the general principle of a league of nations. They therefore
                    cooperated with the more isolationist oriented William E. Borah and Hiram W. Johnson, who also
                    totally opposed American participation in a league. In spite of Beveridge's preoccupation
                    with his biographical work, Coolidge drew him into anti-League activity with increasing success. By
                    1919 Coolidge had become a national organizer and president of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     branch of the League for the Preservation of American Independence, an effort to
                    counter the work of the League to Enforce Peace.14
            
            Beveridge and Coolidge were convinced that only an early organized appeal to the American people
                    could frustrate the plans of the president, whom Coolidge contemptuously labeled "the
                    Lord's Annointed."15 In January, 1918, Coolidge sent an urgent
                    telegram to Beveridge informing him that 
                        Boston
                     area colleges had agreed to cancel their individual alumni dinners in favor of
                    "a great patriotic demonstration" at the 
                        Boston
                     Opera House. Coolidge urged the former senator to make the keynote address,
                    "which will be a rousing call to the patriotism of the college men of the
                        country."16 In a letter to Coolidge, Beveridge responded with a
                    concise statement of opposition to any league scheme. Expressing his anxiety about constant speaking
                    pressures which might distract him from his writing and adding his impression that 
                        Boston
                     might be sympathetic to the position of the League to Enforce Peace, he launched a
                    nationalistic attack on the League proponents. Linking the League to Enforce Peace to
                    "non-American war objects and … camouflage," Beveridge asserted: 
                        I am a Nationalist & I look upon the situation from that point of view.
                            ∗∗∗ My speech would be on the American Nation; the vital
                            need of welding our people into some kind of homogeneity; our peculiar place in the world
                            & the power & influence of it which should be nourished &
                            strengthened rather than weakened or abandoned; the constructive steps we must take to win
                            the war & also to prepare for the grave conditions 
                        
                           14 Henry Cabot Lodge to Albert J. Beveridge, December 3, 1918,
                                    Beveridge Papers, Box 211; Louis A. Coolidge to Hiram W. Johnson, August 7, 15,
                                    1919, Coolidge Papers; Stern, "Evolution of a Reactionary,"
                                    95–96.
                        
                           15 Louis A. Coolidge to Henry Cabot Lodge, August 2, 1919,
                                    Lodge Papers.
                        
                           16 Louis A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, telegram, January
                                    30, 1918, Beveridge Papers, Box 208.
                     
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                             that are sure to come after peace is secured etc, etc,
                            etc. But would this be acceptable?17
                  
                    
            
            The goal of Beveridge's inward nationalism of 1918 was consistent with that of his outward
                    nationalism of 1898: to prevent the imposition of any limitations on American economic and political
                    penetration abroad. Denouncing "emotional, ‘inspirational'
                    stuff," Beveridge insisted: "I am not built on the Billy Sunday evangelistic
                    lines." Expressing equal distaste for the anti-German "blood-horror-hate"
                    line as well as for the monotonous "
                    ‘parliament-of-man,-federation-of-the-world’ " theme, Beveridge
                    reserved his most vitriolic contempt for "Mr. Wilson's idea of bankrupting the
                    country & killing hundreds of thousands of our best young men in order to remake the map of
                    the Balkans & settle the question of digging irrigating ditches in Asia Minor." In
                    a line reminiscent of his 1899 Senate oratory on American international destiny, Beveridge declared:
                    "Nine hundred & ninety nine parts out of a thousand of my thought &
                    interest is of & in the American Nation—its upbuilding, protection & well
                        being."18
            
            Despite his reluctance to interrupt his writing to make the trip to 
                        Boston
                    , Beveridge left the final decision in Coolidge's hands: "I will do as
                    you say, after you have thought over the matter …. so tell me your decision and I will
                    carry it out."19 Ultimately, the fact that Coolidge was out of town
                    when Beveridge's letter arrived led to the selection of another speaker. Later that year,
                    however, Beveridge did make a 
                        Boston
                     address which Coolidge hoped would be "the big speech of the
                        drive."20
            
            The identity of views between the two men on the issue of the League is evident in
                    Coolidge's enthusiastic response to Beveridge's January 31 letter. Coolidge
                    declared: "I think myself that everyone is becoming nauseated with the talk about a war for
                    Democracy, when everyone knows in his heart that there is no earthly reason for our being in this
                        
                  
                     17 Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, January 31, 1918,
                            Coolidge Papers.
                  
                            18
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            19
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     20 Louis A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, telegram, February 9,
                            1918; Louis A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, March 8, 1918; Louis A. Coolidge to Albert
                            J. Beveridge, telegram, September 21, 1918, Beveridge Papers, Box 208.
               
                     fight except to save our own bacon. Personally I don't
                    quite know what kind of Democracy anyone can be fighting for and I don't believe any of
                    those who are throwing out language about it have any clearer conception of it than I
                        have."21 Beveridge agreed completely: "Good Lord what a
                    nice letter! You certainly say things when you get in the humor. Also, your remarks give
                    me some faint hope that, after all, there may be some remnants of statesmanship left in the
                        country."22
            
            Over the next months Beveridge consistently picked up this nationalist theme, stressing it in a tough
                    attack on the League to Enforce Peace in a Memorial Day address. Coolidge applauded the speech, a
                    copy of which Beveridge had sent him. "I have been waiting," he wrote,
                    "for someone with a voice that carries to puncture that balloon which is inflated with
                    poison gas. When are we going to get clear of this fog of sanctimony and pretense in 
                        Washington
                    ; and when can we lift Wilson's dead hand off the spirit of the American
                        people?"23
            
            By the fall of 1918, with the war clearly nearing an end, Beveridge became convinced that his
                    patriotic duty required him to expose the impending threat to American security posed by
                    Wilson's League plan. In a volley of letters to Roosevelt, publisher George Harvey, Lodge,
                    and others, Beveridge argued that as a matter of practical politics the nationalist versus
                    internationalist debate had handed the Republican party a winning issue for 1920.24 As president of the Middlesex Club, 
                        Boston
                    's most prestigious Republican organization, Coolidge had in October, 1918,
                    asked Beveridge to spell out his views on the League of Nations for a series of Middlesex Club
                    resolutions to be adopted in late October. Beveridge had responded with gusto, combining a sense for
                    practical Republican politics sure to appeal to the club members with his well developed nationalist
                    fervor. "I have thought about this long and carefully," Beveridge told 
                  
                     21 Louis A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, March 8, 1918, Beveridge
                            Papers, Box 208.
                  
                     22 Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, March 14, 1918, Beveridge
                            Papers, Box 208.
                  
                     23 Louis A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, June 11, 1918, Beveridge
                            Papers, Box 211.
                  
                     24 Albert J. Beveridge to Theodore Roosevelt, October 19, 1918; Albert
                            J. Beveridge to Henry Cabot Lodge, December 9, 1918; Albert J. Beveridge to George Harvey,
                            December 26, 1918, Beveridge Papers, Boxes 211–213.
               
                     Coolidge. "We are now without an issue." But,
                    he insisted, if "we frankly and bravely attack Wilson's League of Nations we have
                    an issue, a real and great issue. Wilson has made this League of Nations his own;
                    and he has made it the central idea of the Democratic party. He cannot escape from it if he
                        would."25
            
            Beveridge foresaw in the League issue a series of effective Republican campaign attacks. The League,
                    he charged, would lead to "a community of economic interests" threatening American
                    economic sovereignty; the League "would take out of our hands … such purely
                    American questions as the interpretation and application of the 
                        Monroe
                     Doctrine; our Mexican policy; the management of our canal; our course with reference to 
                        Cuba
                     and the Phillipines [sic]." Beveridge further argued that
                    control over immigration laws, "the ultimate test of any Nation's
                    sovereignty," would be at the mercy of the League; even the constitutional power granted to
                    Congress to declare war would have to be repealed, since the majority of the League had to retain
                    the power to commit the entire body "to prevent aggression … or
                    ‘secure justice’ anywhere on earth." What issues, Beveridge exulted,
                    with which to go to the American people!26
            
            Turning to historical examples Beveridge insisted that even in the past a league would have stunted
                    American survival and expansion. He argued that during the Civil War virtually all members of such a
                    league would have supported the South's right to "self-determination" in
                    order to mask the desire to split and weaken the 
                        United States
                    . The wars against Mexico and 
                        Spain
                     would have been denounced as "war[s] of ‘aggression' on
                    our part." Conversely, Beveridge believed that the 
                        United States
                     would have been forced into war against 
                        England
                     to preserve the Boer Republic, against 
                        France
                     to protect Algiers and 
                        Morocco
                    , against 
                        Japan
                     to defend 
                        Korea
                    , against Russia to save 
                        Finland
                    . "The above," Beveridge warned Coolidge, "is merely an
                    outline of an analysis of what Mr. Wilson's League of Nations would have done to us and the
                    world in the past and will do to us in the future."27
            
            
               
                  25 Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, October 14, 1918, Beveridge
                        Papers, Box 211.
               
                        26
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                        27
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            To meet Wilson's challenge Beveridge called for an appeal not to isolationism but rather to
                    the "American National spirit… [and] the sentimental influence of
                    tradition." With the above historical arguments augmenting this strategy Beveridge foresaw
                    a steady erosion of League support. But the task would be arduous, demanding skill and courage, and
                    Beveridge summoned Coolidge to take it up: "This letter is for your own personal
                    consideration exclusively. I do not want to butt in to the councils of 
                        Massachusetts
                     Republicans." But Beveridge added: the League issue which "appeals to
                    the sentiment as well as the reason of the people," could give the Republicans a new
                    rationale for existence beyond the mere pull of office—namely, the defense of vital
                    American principles. "I think that what our party needs now more than anything
                    else," he wrote, "is a general staff to plan for the immediate and the distant
                    future." Beveridge then advised: "Fortune seems to have given you the opportunity
                    to be the chief of the first section of such a general staff. For the sake of the party, for the
                    sake of the country, I pray that you will avail yourself of it."28
            
            Coolidge responded positively, and the Middlesex Club resolutions, demanding a "lasting
                    peace which leaves America the master of her destiny," reflected the influence of
                    Beveridge's exhortations.29 Within weeks the two men had immersed
                    themselves fully in the anti-League struggle. By late October Beveridge had accepted
                    Coolidge's urging to undertake an anti-League speaking tour through 
                        Michigan
                    , Indiana, and 
                        New Hampshire
                    . Coolidge coordinated the tour, consulting with Lodge, Johnson, and other members of
                    the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Beveridge revised his speeches in accordance with
                    Coolidge's suggestions and declared his complete confidence in Coolidge's judgment
                    on projected speaking engagements: "You will know what to do. Whatever you do …
                    will be O.K. with me."30 By December Coolidge even convinced Beveridge
                    to oppose publicly "as a serious mistake" any efforts to create machinery to
                    enforce the decrees of the Hague Court; such a move could 
                  
                            28
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     29 "The Middlesex Resolutions," October 29, 1918,
                            Lodge Papers.
                  
                     30 Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, October 24, 1918; Louis
                            A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, October 30, 1918, Beveridge Papers, Box 211.
               
                    
                    
                  ALBERT J. BEVERIDGE
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                    
                    
                  LOUIS A. COOLIDGE
                  
                  Courtesy Coolidge family
               
                     create internationalist sentiment helpful to the defenders of
                    the League.31
            
            Coolidge's regular correspondence with Lodge provided Beveridge with a vehicle for
                    influencing the 
                        Massachusetts
                     senator's speeches urging reservations to the League Covenant
                    —which Wilson regarded as an essential part of the peace treaty. When the treaty came
                    before the Senate, Lodge opposed its ratification unless "reservations" or
                    amendments were added to the League Covenant exempting the 
                        Monroe
                     Doctrine and other tenets of American foreign policy from any League interference or
                    control. Beveridge hoped that Lodge would find his arguments against the League helpful; but, wary
                    of Lodge's willingness to endorse the abstract concept of a league of nations, suggested as
                    an alternative that "one of our men like Borah or Sherman" could use the material
                    "with effect."32
            
            During the early months of 1919, when the battle lines on the League hardened at home as the
                    president negotiated in Europe, Beveridge resisted some of Coolidge's speaking proposals in
                    order to concentrate on his writing.33 By July, however, Beveridge succumbed to
                    pressures for an extensive swing through the Midwest. The events surrounding this tour have been
                    touched on by Beveridge's biographers, but Coolidge's primary role as coordinator
                    has been completely overlooked.34
            
            It was to Coolidge, a fellow biographer, that Beveridge spilled out his anxiety over the pressures to
                    complete the fourth Marshall volume: "I am profoundly troubled. As you know, I am not only
                    anxious but eager to make this speaking trip. If the production of the book involved only myself I
                    would postpone it … and go like a shot. But it is a matter of contract involving an
                    investment by the publishers of a 
                  
                     31 Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, December 3, 1918,
                            Beveridge Papers, Box 211.
                  
                     32 Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, December 4, 3, 1918,
                            Beveridge Papers, Box 211; for an analysis of Coolidge's correspondence with Lodge,
                            see Sheldon M. Stern, "Henry Cabot Lodge and Louis A. Coolidge: In Defense of
                            American Sovereignty, 1898–1920," Proceedings of the
                                Massaschusetts Historical Society, forthcoming in 1976.
                  
                     33 Louis A. Coolidge to Henry Cabot Lodge, February 14, 1919, Lodge
                            Papers; Louis A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, March 24, 1919; Albert J. Beveridge to
                            Louis A. Coolidge, March 25, 1919, Beveridge Papers, Box 214.
                  
                     34 Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era,
                            506–507; Braeman, Albert J. Beveridge, 262.
               
                     pretty heavy sum of money." Beveridge implored
                    Coolidge to consult anti-League senators and explain this dilemma: "If our men in 
                        Washington
                    , after understanding my situation, feel that I should make the trip, I will do so and
                    risk the consequences …." As an alternative, Beveridge proposed that the trip be
                    postponed until September, when the fight would be "in full swing."35 Coolidge contacted the anti-League members of Lodge's committee and wired
                    Beveridge: "Foreign Relations Committee unanimous in feeling that unless you go now it is
                    useless to go later."36 Beveridge's response revealed both his
                    annoyance and the depth of his commitment to the anti-League cause: "Telegram received.
                    Think decision ridiculous since finish of fight will come during October, but will go now
                    … [and] make four speeches, beginning either July 28 or July 30. Publishers threaten to
                    suspend work on book if more time taken."37
            
            A 
                        Chicago
                     rally in the last days of July found Beveridge accidentally in the midst of an
                    escalating race riot. In a hastily scrawled telegram marked "Rush," Beveridge
                    first informed Coolidge of his intention to abandon the tour: "Race riot increasing. Men
                    killed loop district this forenoon. Meeting cancelled because extremely dangerous. Impossible. 
                        St. Paul
                     meeting badly arranged … cancelled trip for present."38 Beveridge returned to his writing with considerable relief; within days, however,
                    Coolidge began urging him to make some 
                        Boston
                     appearances, and the reluctant author agreed. Beveridge continued to speak throughout
                    the following months.39
            
            On November 19, 1919, the Senate Democrats, unable to enact the president's unamended
                    version, bowed to Wilson's demands and defeated the treaty with Lodge's
                    reservations. Beveridge commended the 
                        Massachusetts
                     senator's skill and statesmanship.40 But, writing to
                    Coolidge on the same day, 
                  
                     35 Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, July 16, 1919, Beveridge
                            Papers, Box 214.
                  
                     36 Louis A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, telegram, July 18, 1919,
                            Beveridge Papers, Box 214.
                  
                     37 Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, telegram, [July 19,
                            1919?], Beveridge Papers, Box 214.
                  
                     38 Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, telegram, July 29, 1919,
                            Beveridge Papers, Box 214.
                  
                     39 Louis A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, July 31, August 8, 1919;
                            telegram, August 13, 1919, Beveridge Papers, Box 214.
                  
                     40 Albert J. Beveridge to Henry Cabot Lodge, November 21, 1919, Lodge
                            Papers; Braeman, Albert J. Beveridge, 263.
               
                     Beveridge congratulated his 
                        Massachusetts
                     friend in personal and almost euphoric terms 
                        on the great victory that has been won for our country. In the whole fight nothing has
                            happened that has given me, personally, such faith that we would win as the noble stand you
                            took, the limitless courage you displayed and the resourcefulness with which you worked. I
                            cannot adequately put in words my admiration for you and my gratitude to you. After all
                            Henry Wise Wood was right when he said that the old American blood would save the nation in
                            this crisis, and no person in the whole land has demonstrated that fact better than you have
                            ….
                        Every good wish, dear Louie. From the very first I always have cared for you as you well
                            know; but never have I so esteemed, admired and loved you as I do now. You have proved pure
                            gold without alloy.41
                  
                    
            
            Despite their mutual sense of satisfaction and triumph, Beveridge and Coolidge were aware that the
                    fight had only progressed through the first round. Beveridge warned Coolidge to keep up his
                    vigilance: "the Leaguers will try to browbeat or honeyfuggle or bully or soft soap or
                    frighten our men into … some sort of a ‘compromise’. They must not
                    succeed. We must not let them turn our victory into a defeat."42
                    Although obviously touched by Beveridge's praise, Coolidge agreed that the climactic
                    struggle lay ahead. Describing an anti-League rally at 
                        Boston
                    's Faneuil Hall the previous week, Coolidge insisted that the Lodge
                    reservations to the treaty, designed to prevent League interference in the formulation of American
                    foreign policy, marked the limits of compromise: "These professional League of Nations
                    Apostles seem to have it in their nut that the trouble is all with the Senate …. The only
                    thing that blocks the way to the ratification of the Treaty," Coolidge bellowed,
                    "… is Wilson himself. It is reduced now to a question of his own pigheadedness
                    and all we have to do is to see that the country is completely convinced of that."43
            
            By January, 1920, with a final vote on the League approaching, Beveridge and Coolidge peppered Lodge
                    and other members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee with 
                  
                     41 Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, November 21, 1919,
                            Beveridge Papers, Box 219.
                  
                            42
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     43 Louis A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, December 8, 1919,
                            Beveridge Papers, Box 214.
               
                     advice to crush all efforts toward new concessions.44 Lodge's replies, which struck both Beveridge and Coolidge as
                    somewhat evasive, convinced them that a deal might yet be worked out behind the scenes creating some
                    form of American participation in the League.45 In late January Coolidge wired
                    Beveridge an urgent request to keep the heat on Lodge and "stop the compromise
                        talk."46 Beveridge complied. "As you requested, I wired
                    Lodge as follows: ‘… your reservations utmost that can be conceded. Even your
                    reservations may not prevent President from making disastrous foreign committments [sic].’ "47 Coolidge approved of Beveridge's
                    actions, describing the telegram to Lodge as "tactful and at the same time explicit and
                    unequivocal." But Coolidge confessed that his fears had not been relieved: "I
                    don't like the tone of the despatches and I don't get very encouraging information
                    on the phone. The spirit of concession seems to be in the air and there is something like
                    precipitancy in trying to get the infernal Treaty ratified."48
            
            The final Senate defeat of the peace treaty on March 19, 1920, convinced even these doubters that
                    they had successfully defended "every real American ideal." With a sense of relief
                    Beveridge and Coolidge turned their attention to the upcoming Republican national convention and
                    speculation on its presidential nominee. Yet even the convention created some anxiety for Coolidge,
                    who predicted that the nomination of Herbert Hoover could lead a Republican endorsement of a
                    compromise close to Wilson's position.49
            
            
               
                  44 Louis A. Coolidge to Henry Cabot Lodge, December 30, 1919; Henry Cabot
                        Lodge to Louis A. Coolidge, January 1, 1920; Henry Cabot Lodge to Albert J. Beveridge, January
                        3, 1920; Louis A. Coolidge to Henry Cabot Lodge, January 15, 1920; Henry Cabot Lodge to Louis A.
                        Coolidge, January 28, 1920; Louis A. Coolidge to Henry Cabot Lodge, February 9, 1920; Henry
                        Cabot Lodge to Louis A. Coolidge, February 11, 1920, Lodge Papers.
               
                  45 Henry Cabot Lodge to Albert J. Beveridge, January 3, 1920; Henry Cabot
                        Lodge to Louis A. Coolidge, January 28, 1920, Lodge Papers.
               
                  46 Louis A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, telegram, January 28, 1920,
                        Beveridge Papers, Box 219.
               
                  47 Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, February 6, 1920, Beveridge
                        Papers, Box 219.
               
                  48 Louis A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, February 11, 1920, Beveridge
                        Papers, Box 219.
               
                  49 Louis A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, February 11, 1920; Albert J.
                        Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, April 27, 1920; Louis A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, May 3,
                        1920; Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, May 5, 1920, Beveridge Papers, Box 219; Louis A.
                        Coolidge to Henry Cabot Lodge, April 20, 1920, Lodge Papers.
            
            
            The Beveridge-Coolidge correspondence is significant from a number of perspectives. It opens to
                    historians a relationship previously neglected in assessing Beveridge's life. In detailing
                    Beveridge's practical and ideological commitment to the struggle against the League of
                    Nations, the correspondence clarifies both the post-Progressive party phase of Beveridge's
                    career and reveals the consistency of his nationalist and expansionist views. The letters help
                    create a more balanced view of Beveridge's career, bringing into sharper focus the
                    significant chapter in his political life which followed his defeat in 1910 and the brief
                    Progressive party episode between 1912 and 1914.
            In the final years of their correspondence, until Coolidge's death in 1925, the two men
                    sharpened their shared hostility to such issues as the expansion of federal authority, the
                    regulation of private enterprise, corporate taxation, and the union shop. By the mid-1920s the
                    Albert J. Beveridge of 1912 was no more than a dim memory.50
            
            
               
                  50 Louis A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, June 7, 1922; Albert J.
                        Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, June 9, 1922; Louis A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, December
                        14, 1922; Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, December 16, 1922; Louis A. Coolidge to
                        Albert J. Beveridge, January 4, 1923; Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A. Coolidge, May 31, 1923;
                        Louis A. Coolidge to Albert J. Beveridge, January 23, 1924; Albert J. Beveridge to Louis A.
                        Coolidge, January 25, 1924, Beveridge Papers, Boxes 232, 242, 248.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Diary of Calvin Fletcher. Volume III, 1844–1847:
                        Including Letters to and from Calvin Fletcher. Edited by Gayle Thornbrough and Dorothy L.
                    Riker. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1974. Pp. xxiii, 475. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $10.00.)
            A visitor to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the 1840s might well have carried with him a letter of introduction to Calvin
                    Fletcher, one of the city's most important businessmen. Presenting the letter to Fletcher
                    at the office of Fletcher and 
                        Butler
                    , collection agents, or perhaps at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     branch of the State Bank (of which Fletcher was president after the end of May, 1844),
                    the stranger might have been invited to dinner with the Fletcher family. On that occasion he would
                    have broken bread with the paterfamilias and Sarah, his wife, perhaps as many as
                    eight of their eleven children (one or more of the older boys being away at school and the youngest
                    in the nursery), at least two young bound girls who lived as members of the family, and any number
                    of visiting relatives. The table would have been laden with food from the Fletcher farms in the
                    environs of the city, the crackling fire replenished with logs from the farms' woodlots.
                    Dinner over, the host would have taken the visitor to call on other businessmen, or he might have
                    invited his guest to accompany him to a church or temperance meeting.
            It is this pleasant life, with its underlying anxieties, to be sure, that Fletcher chronicles in the
                    third published volume of his diary. The first volume (1817–1838) largely concerned
                    Calvin's and Sarah's struggle to establish themselves in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; the second volume (1838–1843) covered years of economic depression;
                    finally, in this volume, the Fletchers come to enjoy the satisfactions of relative affluence
                    —albeit the diarist often failed to recognize his blessings.
            Although Fletcher occasionally referred in his diary to national or international events, his focus
                    was on local matters. At the end of December, 1846, he recorded the dissolution of his eleven year
                    partnership with Ovid 
                        Butler
                    , the two men having brought their collection agency to a close. But by that time
                    Fletcher was deeply absorbed in the affairs of the State Bank, and through the middle 1840s he
                    continued to expand his farms and to speculate in cattle and hogs. He described his many business
                    trips in Indiana and to 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                     by horseback, buggy, steamboat, and railroad in fortunate
                    detail. Thus his diary remains of interest to economic and business historians. Fletcher's
                    concern with local schools and his many references to the experiences of his sons who attended 
                        Brown
                     University at 
                  Providence, Rhode Island
               , provide sidelights on education in the period.
                    Comments on illness in the family and community, the practice of medicine, farm tenancy, and free
                    blacks in 
                        Indianapolis
                     all add value to the diary.
            Fletcher was an introspective person who constantly measured his conduct against his ideal of what a
                    just man should be, and always found himself wanting. The modern reader might give him better marks.
                    Industrious to a fault, Fletcher was up betimes to spend an hour or more reading improving
                    literature before he began the day's work. He labored hard—at home, in his
                    office, at the bank, on his farms, in the community—and he had a loving regard for his
                    wife and children. Not of an age that that recognized a generation gap, he often tortured himself
                    with the suspicion that his sons failed to appreciate him, but he never relaxed his efforts in their
                    behalf. It is difficult to believe that he could have done much more, though he might have been more
                    gracious in the doing.
            A word should be added about Sarah Fletcher. On October 19, 1846, at the age of forty-five, she gave
                    birth to her ninth son, her eleventh and last child, and thus brought to an end twenty-three years
                    of childbearing. (All the children were to live into adulthood, surely an unusual family record for
                    the time.) Through it all, and around bouts of illness, Sarah continued to oversee the housekeeping,
                    to work hard in the home and on the farms, to fill her role as the wife of an influential community
                    leader. On the subjects of Sarah, her daughters, other female relatives, and the bound girls
                    Fletcher's diary is a not to be overlooked source of women's history.
            The editors have brought to the preparation of this volume the same careful scholarship and attention
                    to detail that distinguishes the earlier volumes.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Irene D. Neu
         
         
         
            
               Immigrants and the City: Ethnicity and Mobility in a Nineteenth-Century Midwestern
                        Community. By Dean R. Esslinger. (
                        Port Washington
                    , N. Y.: Kennikat Press, 1975. Pp. xii, 156. Maps, tables, appendix, notes, note on
                    sources, index. $9.95.)
            This study of ethnicity and mobility in nineteenth century 
                        South Bend
                     is the first book length example of the "new" urban history to use an
                    Indiana setting. Like many earlier community studies—from 
                        Boston
                     to Milwaukee to Omaha—Dean R. Esslinger's book focuses on the
                    common people—the usually inarticulate Americans who left little or no literary evidence.
                    His major sources for studying 
                        South Bend
                    's immigrants are not letters, diaries, or newspapers but rather the federal
                    manuscript census returns for the years 1850–1880, which provide data on occupation,
                    property, age, residence, and ethnicity for nearly every resident. Use of census data for historical
                    research is not novel (more than a quarter of a century ago Elfrieda Lang worked through some of the
                    same returns that Esslinger used), but within the last two decades historians have begun to ask new
                    questions of these data and, with the aid of computer techniques, have developed new methods to
                    answer these questions.
            
               
                        South Bend
                     grew rapidly in the years 1850–1880 as it changed from a small commercial
                    town to a booming industrial city with nearly half its population composed of first and second
                    generation immigrants. Esslinger analyzes relationships between the processes of urbanization,
                    industrialization, and immigration, especially as these relationships were reflected in the mobility
                    of immigrants. Beginning with a short overview chapter on the city, the author presents a chapter on
                    geographical mobility, showing the rapid population turnover in 
                        South Bend
                    ; on residential mobility, describing increased residential clustering by ethnic group
                    and by type of work after 1870; and on occupational mobility, assessing the opportunity for
                    immigrants to move up the social ladder. A chapter on patterns of immigrant social and political
                    leadership compares different ethnic groups, emphasizing the strength of German and English
                    leadership, largely as a consequence of their earlier arrival and their willingness to enter into
                    voluntary associations.
            Esslinger's major conclusion is that while 
                        South Bend
                     was a relatively open community in 1850 compared to older  eastern cities, industrialization and urbanization after 1850 increased
                    social and residential divisions and restrictions and decreased prospects of assimilation for later
                    arriving ethnic groups, especially Polish Americans. This conclusion is by no means new, but
                    Esslinger has made significant scholarly contributions in providing quantitative support and in
                    elaborating the intricacies of these far reaching changes in a small midwestern city. His work will
                    surely be of interest to the many scholars studying mobility and ethnicity in other communities,
                    although they might wish that Esslinger had not bound himself so exclusively to the four midcentury
                    census returns. Readers interested in the general development of Indiana and the Midwest will also
                    profit from Esslinger's work. The writing style is clear and concise; the quantitative
                    techniques used can be readily understood; and the subject is interesting and of utmost
                    significance. Indeed, there have been few books published in the last decade that tell readers more
                    about life in nineteenth century Indiana.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                James H. Madison
         
         
            
               Guide to Manuscripts Collections & Institutional Records in 
                            Ohio
                        . Edited by David R. Larson et al. ([Bowling Green]: Society
                    of 
                        Ohio
                     Archivists, 1974. Pp. x, 315. End maps, notes, index. $8.00.)
            
               
                        Ohio
                     archives and manuscripts are being revealed to researchers by published inventories.
                    Guides to the manuscripts in the 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society, Western Reserve Historical Society, and American Jewish Archives,
                    and county and municipal government records have been published in the last four years. A guide to
                    state government records is scheduled for 1975.
            This Guide lists the many manuscripts to be found in public, college, and
                    historical society libraries and museums. Included are the large holdings of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Historical Society, the University of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Oberlin College, 
                        Kent
                     State University, Hiram College, and 
                        Northwest Ohio
                    -Great Lakes Research Center in Bowling Green, 
                        Ohio
                    ; archives of the 
                        Ohio
                     Synod of the Lutheran Church of America at 
                        Wittenberg
                     University; and the 
                        Quaker
                     collection at 
                        Wilmington
                     College.
            
            Arrangement of this book is by counties. Under each county Larson indicates depositories with
                    collections of manuscripts, followed by a list of "Institutions." These are
                    organizations which maintain their records within their place of business, mainly for their own use,
                    and include better business bureaus; chambers of commerce; Red Cross chapters; banks; industries;
                    hospitals; medical, social service, and welfare societies; fraternal organizations; newspapers;
                    radio stations; and individual churches. There are an outstanding number of churches represented,
                    eighty in 
                        Franklin County
                    , and forty in 
                        Montgomery County
                    .
            The comprehensive index includes libraries, institutions, subjects, and references to collections
                    within depositories by name. This work was compiled by twenty-five members of the Society of 
                        Ohio
                     Archivists, who visited depositories and institutions, examined the holdings, and
                    reported on the contents. The society is to be congratulated for their cooperative and carefully
                    prepared work. The result is an attractive, clear, easy to read book, packed with information about 
                        Ohio
                    's manuscript collections.
            
               Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Leona Alig
         
         
            
               Polish-American Politics in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1888–1940. By Edward R. Kantowicz. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1975. Pp. xi, 260. Maps, tables, note on sources and method, notes, index.
                    $12.95.)
            Edward Kantowicz, currently an assistant professor at 
                        Carleton
                     University, has written a first rate study of the voting behavior and political
                    aspirations of 
                        Chicago
                    's Polish American population. The book follows other modern studies on 
                        Chicago
                    's ethnic groups by John Alswang (A House for All Peoples,
                    1971) and Humbert Nelli (The Italians in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1970); but in some ways it is more focused, and it takes advantage of the
                    insights gained by the authors of the earlier works. Since the Polish American element is perhaps
                    the largest identifiable ethnic segment in the 
                        Chicago
                     area, Kantowicz's information and critical judgments carry major significance.
                    These findings are not only important for 
                        Chicago
                     but also for the national scene. Polish Americans have been as often spurned by
                    historians as they have been  ignored by political scientists.
                    Kantowicz proves that to overlook Polonja Amerykanska—the Polish
                    community in America—is to miss an important political and cultural force.
            Kantowicz divides his treatment into five sections; each in turn encompasses several chapters. He
                    traces the migration of Poles to 
                        Chicago
                    , explains the emergence of Polish American political power, relates the dynamics of the
                    Polish American vote to national elections, examines the relationship of Polish Americans to
                    twentieth century machine politics, and concludes by assessing the successes and failures of Polish
                    Americans in terms of their own goals and aspirations. The primary advantage of this approach is
                    that it allows Kantowicz to study ethnic politics from the inside rather than viewing it as one of
                    many forces acting in a situation. Although the author makes little effort to adduce much more than
                    simple percentages from his voting statistics, his presentation is clear Kantowicz's major
                    shortcoming is his failure to use sophisticated statistical methods.
            The book will be of value to scholars of varied interests. Kantowicz's proof of the
                    persistence of a Democratic machine in the Polish American community is important. His assessment
                    and evidence of how a minority group's very strength may frustrate the efforts of its
                    leaders to achieve substantial recognition is an important application of ideas that have not been
                    adequately explored in the past. Other readers will appreciate Kantowicz's careful
                    delineation of the factionalism cloaked behind the monolith of newspapers that English readers could
                    not understand, of a language without a Latin base, and of a population whose leaders seemed
                    strangely inarticulate.
            Kantowicz writes without heroes or villains. He sympathizes with the goals of Polonja
                        Amerykanska, but he is neither filiopietistic nor maudlin. As a result the book will go a
                    long way toward helping Polish Americans understand themselves and explaining them to others in the
                    scholarly community. Students of politics, urbanization, ethnicity, and the Middle West will find
                    this an extremely useful work.
            Unfortunately, the author has been poorly served by his publisher, and this is astonishing because it
                    is the University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press. There are typographical errors of the crudest kind; a variable right hand margin
                    for quotations makes for difficult reading; and the decision to use a double  column format with a variable right hand margin for the introductory
                    portions of each section seems inappropriate for a scholarly work. The notes have been gathered at
                    the end of the text. This is not a bad practice, except in this case when the author provides
                    thoughtful and suggestive criticisms of the scholarly literature. Kantowicz's decision to
                    free his narrative from scholarly dialogue may mislead lazy readers; they may assume that he is
                    unaware of the implications of his perceptive comments. A sound, significant, scholarly work
                    deserves more care from a distinguished press.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Martin Ridge
         
         
            
               Downriver: Orrin H. Ingram and The Empire Lumber Company. By Charles E. Twining. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1975. Pp. ix, 309. Notes, map, illustrations, appendix, selected bibliography, index.
                    $17.50.)
            By any standard of measurement lumbering was one of the most important industries in nineteenth
                    century America. Yet for some reason often commented upon but never explained, it has long been a
                    neglected topic of scholarship. Recently, however, interest in the topic has begun to grow. Although
                    no full study of the industry exists, a number of articles and monographs on lumbermen, lumber
                    companies, and lumbering regions have appeared. Downriver: Orrin H. Ingram and The
                        Empire Lumber Company is a valuable addition to this literature.
            Charles E. Twining has written a first rate business biography. Making good use of a fine collection
                    of business and personal papers, he fully describes the lumbering career of Orrin H. Ingram from a
                    millhand in 
                        New York
                     State to the leader of the Chippewa Valley lumbermen and business associate of the
                    Weyerhaeuser syndicate. Ingram's story is not unique, but he is important as a
                    representative of the more successful lumberman of the nineteenth century. Born in 
                        Southwick
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                    , in 1830, Ingram wanted to be a mechanic but backed into lumbering and rose rapidly
                    through the ranks. He chafed to put his mechanical and managerial talents to use in his own firm,
                    and finally in 1857 Dole, Ingram and Kennedy was established at 
                        Eau Claire
                    , 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Despite severe shortages of both investment and 
                    working capital so typical of frontier lumbering enterprises, the firm prospered under
                    Ingram's not always uncontested leadership, growing from a small manufacturing concern that
                    concentrated on a quality product to a fully integrated high volume corporation, the Empire Lumber
                    Company. Twining documents this growth carefully, emphasizing Ingram's and his
                    partners' key decisions and the ability of these entrepreneurs to respond creatively to
                    changing situations. By the time the downriver lumbermen invaded the Chippewa Valley, Ingram and
                    Empire were in a strong position. Although they could not banish the interlopers, they could survive
                    and prosper in an altered environment until the supply of pine was exhausted.
            As its title implies, Downriver emphasizes the marketing function of lumbering. For
                    Empire and all Mississippi River manufacturers, marketing grew from the
                    haphazard rafting of lumber from town to town to more complex business arrangements including the
                    ownership of chains of wholesale and retail yards. Twining briefly examines the pattern of
                    timberland ownership in the Chippewa Valley and makes clear that Ingram never speculated in
                    pinelands. He entered into land ownership only reluctantly and not until the speculators began
                    wholesale buying after the Civil War. Two other functions of the industry, manufacturing and
                    logging, are discussed less fully. This will disappoint anyone interested in the technical side of
                    the business. It would have been interesting to know, for example, the details of log purchasing in
                    the antebellum period or the specifics of technological adaptation in the manufacturing sequence. A
                    second and more serious weakness is the lack of local setting, particularly before the Civil War.
                    Without this comparative perspective, this reader at times forgot that Ingram and Empire did not
                    operate in a vacuum.
            Despite these qualifications Downriver is an important book for those interested in
                    lumber, regional, and business history. With the exception of the appendix, which could have been
                    expanded, this book is well conceived, gracefully written, and handsomely produced.
            
               Eleutherian Mills-Hagley Foundation, 
                     Newark, Delaware
                  
               
                    Barbara E. Benson
         
         
         
            
               A People of Two Kingdoms: The Political Acculturation of the 
                            Kansas
                         Mennonites. By James C. Juhnke. (Newton, Kan.: Faith and Life Press, 1975. Pp.
                    xii, 215. Illustrations, tables, appendixes, notes, bibliography, index. $7.95.)
            To write dispassionately about a subculture of which one is a part and toward which one has assumed
                    something of the role of prophet and critic is no mean achievement. This James Juhnke has done
                    without losing a touch of intimacy in his treatment of subject matter and personalities.
            The subtitle of the book, The Political Acculturation of the 
                            Kansas
                         Mennonites, is well stated. Coming to 
                        Kansas
                    , primarily from Russia in the 1870s, to escape compulsory military service in their
                    home country, the 
                        Kansas
                     Mennonites formed a religious and cultural island on the American farming frontier.
                    Their isolation was both deliberate and inescapable. From the time of their origins during the
                    Protestant Reformation, Mennonites believed that the proper relationship between the kingdom of
                    Christ and the kingdom of this world "was decisive and thorough separation."
                    Politically this meant that those in the kingdom of Christ "must renounce the sword, the
                    taking of oaths, and the holding of political office" (p. 10). The partial accommodation of
                    these Mennonites to American democracy after centuries of isolation, particularly through
                    participation in the political affairs of the community, the state, and the nation, is the subject
                    of this book.
            Juhnke examines voting (and nonvoting) patterns, distribution of the Mennonite vote among the
                    parties, office holding by Mennonites, and political statements by editors of and contributors to
                    Mennonite religio newspapers. But the predominant theme is the painful frustration of 
                        Kansas
                     Mennonites who wanted to be good and respectable citizens but who at the same time
                    sought to maintain their radical doctrine of the two kingdoms, particularly as it expressed itself
                    in nonparticipation in war.
            The author's research is extensive and thorough. His commendable foray into quantitative
                    history provides needed corrective information as to how Mennonites voted, although the evidence for
                        why they voted as they did seems quite fragmentary. Considering that
                    Mennonites did not follow their leaders in matters political (pp. 69–70, 93), it would be
                    most  interesting to know what those farmers said about
                    political affairs while socializing during wheat harvest or after church on a Sunday; but those
                    conversations are lost to us. One could wish that Juhnke had made a greater effort to relate
                    political adjustments of 
                        Kansas
                     Mennonites to other aspects of acculturation and to compare this group with Mennonite
                    societies which had been in this country much longer, but to have done so would have violated the
                    author's self imposed limits.
            Emerging somewhat from his objective stance Juhnke concludes that "the tragedy of the
                    Mennonites was … that they so desperately wanted to be good American citizens and could
                    not fulfill the requirements without violating their consciences or abandoning the tradition of
                    their forebears" (p. 156). But this "Mennonite in America, a pacifist and a
                    citizen," and a 1970 candidate for the 
                        United States
                     House of Representatives who espouses "liberal Mennonite Christian
                    values" (p. ix) never states how he proposes to solve the political dilemma of the
                    Mennonites. Like a good historian, he leaves this question unanswered.
            
               Malone College, 
                            Canton
                        , 
                            Ohio
                        
                Paton Yoder
         
         
            
               Mennonites in 
                            Canada
                        , 1786–1920: The History of a Separate, People. By Frank H. Epp. (
                        Toronto
                    : Macmillan of 
                        Canada
                    , 1974. Pp. xii, 480. Illustrations, maps, charts, tables, notes, bibliographies, index.
                    $9.95.)
            Frank H. Epp is a well known Canadian Mennonite scholar, author, and leader. In the prologue to this
                    work T. D. Regehr summarizes with genuine insight the objective of the author: to "tell the
                    Canadian Mennonite story accurately, within its European, North American, and Canadian
                    contexts" (p. 17). Rare indeed is the in group author who succeeds in attaining such an
                    objective to the degree to which Epp does.
            Modern research has done much to clarify the complex nature of the sixteenth century Protestant
                    Reformation, in particular the many facets of the radical reformation—a series of
                    movements centering especially in 
                        Switzerland
                    , central 
                        Germany
                    , and the Netherlands. The revolutionary fringe of these movements was soon eliminated
                    by the power of the states involved, and from the main bodies of the peaceful  Anabaptist movements came the Mennonites (1525), the Hutterites (1528),
                    and the Amish (1693). In North America the struggle to be a separated people led to further
                    fragmentation (Old Order Mennonites, Conservatives, Old Colony, Sommerfelders, etc.). Those who
                    immigrated between the 1680s and the American Revolutionary War (mostly of Swiss origin) constitute
                    the largest body in North America (100,000 baptized members), while those who sojourned for several
                    generations in 
                        Russia
                     (mostly of Dutch origin) are known as General Conference Mennonites (60,000 in North
                    America). Their general conference was created in 1860, while the larger body had no general
                    conference until 1898. The Amish and the Hutterites each have a baptized membership of about 25,000.
                    The Mennonite Brethren originated in 
                        Russia
                     as a revivalist group and number about 35,000 in North America. The total for all
                    bodies of Mennonites in North America is 210,000 baptized members in the 
                        United States
                     and 90,000 in 
                        Canada
                    : the unbaptized children would add possibly one fourth to these figures which include
                    all Anabaptist related groups except the Hutterites. No Mennonite author has succeeded as well as
                    Epp in writing with understanding and sympathy of all groups.
            The book thoroughly discusses the Russian background of many of the Canadian Mennonites. It also
                    portrays the struggles of the Mennonites as they sought to maintain their faith, way of life, and
                    culture while at the same time adopting much of the modern life style of their new homeland. A small
                    minority have left 
                        Canada
                     to settle in 
                        Mexico
                     and Paraguay where they can remain German in culture and avoid acculturation through
                    the public schools of 
                        Canada
                    . Fortunately for this "separated" people, 
                        Canada
                     now has an official multicultural policy and program and encourages bilingualism. But
                    the struggles were intense for the Mennonites, especially during and following World War I.
            One of the most attractive features of the book is the beautiful English style of writing. The book
                    gives evidence of wide reading and thorough research combined with sound interpretation. The author
                    writes as a convinced Mennonite, yet as one whose eyes are open to the foibles and occasional
                    shortsightedness of his subjects. The book has many charts, tables, and artist's sketches
                    (rather than photographs). Typography is attractive, and mistakes are rare. The reasonable  price is due to subsidies from the 
                        Canada
                     Council and other sources. Photographs of fifty representative leaders, and of an equal
                    number of meetinghouses, would have added to the popular appeal of the book.
            
               
                  
                            Goshen
                         Biblical Seminary, 
                            Elkhart
                        , Ind. J. C. Wenger
         
         
            
               American Classic. By Laurence Lafore. (
                        Iowa City
                    : 
                        Iowa
                     State Historical Department/Division of the State Historical Society, 1975. Pp. 96.
                    Illustrations. Clothbound, $5.95; paperbound, $3.95.)
            Laurence Lafore's American Classic is a narrative and photographic tour of
                    houses and buildings in 
                        Iowa City
                    , 
                        Iowa
                    , which was founded in 1839 as the first capital of the state. Through text and pictures
                    he seeks to demonstrate the value of architecture as a means of learning "about our past,
                    present, and future, about our ancestors, ourselves, and our heirs" (p. 5). Using
                    architecture as a measure of values, attitudes, and beliefs, Lafore traces the progression of styles
                    found in houses and public buildings from the classical simplicity of Plum Grove to the modern 
                        Iowa
                     State Bank and Trust Building, a drive in bank that is "an artistic triumph
                    not at all inappropriate to a society where automobiles and interest rates count so
                    heavily" (p. 95). The founders of 
                        Iowa City
                     drew their inspiration from classic models; later residents chose others; and in our
                    time, technology and functionalism provide the predominate models. Any street, Lafore concludes,
                    with its mixture of classic, Gothic, Italianate, Victorian, and modern architecture, is "a
                    picture album of the family of man" (p. 95).
            A novelist as well as historian, Lafore writes in a sprightly and engaging manner which, when he
                    feels particularly close to a house or architectural style, becomes almost poetic. In discussing
                    trademarks of the Gilded Age, he writes: "Bay windows … recurred in profusion,
                    like the petals of an opening flower" (p. 47). Careful selection of words for their
                    descriptive qualities, as when he speaks of buildings as "the genes of a
                    community" (p. 5) is an attractive quality of the work. The author's penchant for
                    just the right word and the creation of the well turned phrase occasionally produces surprising
                    constructions. In describing the  idiosyncratic design of
                    Ardenia, he writes: "There is nothing like it anywhere in 
                        Iowa City
                    , or elsewhere for the matter of that" (p. 74).
            Successful as Lafore is in describing architectural styles and identifying values and attitudes that
                    lay behind them, his work lacks consistency in its architectural characterization and
                    identification. In describing a house built in 1846 or a little earlier, Lafore notes that
                    "the very low-pitched roof is novel" and suggests it may be the result of the
                    hazards of high winds in 
                        Iowa
                     (p. 33). However, the houses to which he refers more likely reflect the low pitched
                    roof feature of Federal and Greek Revival styles. Both styles were popular earlier in 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana and were doubtless carried west by 
                        Iowa City
                    's early settlers. Lafore does not even use the term Federal until late in the
                    work and only then in a passing reference to a "Federal past" (p. 72). The
                    magnificant Old Capitol he merely identifies as "in the classic style" (p. 35)
                    without any indication that a distinction exists between the Greek and Roman phases of that style or
                    that the Old Capitol is an exquisite example of the former. Lafore's failure to identify
                    precisely architectural styles, which is the major weakness of the study, may be explained by his
                    desire to write more for the layman than for the student. The virtue of Lafore's essay and
                    the aspect that gives it its lasting value is its emphasis on the continuous evolution of tastes,
                    beliefs, and knowledge as measured through architecture. The study should serve as an inspiration to
                    others of what can be done in their own communities and state. In Indiana, for example, one thinks
                    most readily of 
                        New Harmony
                     and 
                        Madison
                     as communities with an equally rich architectural history.
            
               Tri-State University, 
                            Angola
                        , Ind. Donald Zimmer
         
         
            
               Leadership in the American Revolution. Papers presented at the Library of
                    Congress Symposia on the American Revolution, May 9 and 10, 1974. (
                        Washington
                    : Library of Congress, 1974. Pp. 135. Notes. $4.50.)
            When Lyman Butterfield opened the third (of five scheduled) Library of Congress symposium on
                    leadership in the American Revolution he posed the following question: are  the founding fathers "victims of a childish romanticism about
                    the past and an equally groundless cynicism about the present" (p. 4). The answers to be
                    found in the five papers that were presented were predictably varied and sometimes lacking in focus.
                    But the reflections of Alfred Kelly, Marcus Cunliffe, Gordon Wood, Don Higginbotham, and Bruce
                    Mazlish are worth having. And, thanks to the Cafritz Foundation, the book is available at a very
                    modest price.
            The dimensions of leadership are not easily measured. Kelly's response to the question takes
                    the form of an examination of the emergence of the optimistic ethical view he believes the founding
                    fathers had of the world they sought to change. Cunliffe attempts an assessment of the congressional
                    leadership during the Revolution, reminding us of its problems as well as limits. Higginbotham
                    considers the quality of the American military leadership, noting the European context, the American
                    emulation of their enemy's military habits, and the absence of American military writers to
                    match the political. Wood, in a notable synthesis, "The Democratization, went unmet.
                    Instead the people succumbed to deceit and of leadership. Finally, in an uneven but provocative
                    essay on "The Psychological Dimension," Mazlish attempts some very different
                    measurements indeed.
            No composite group portrait is possible, but a few brush strokes seem justified. The essays suggest a
                    leadership that knew its origins and valued continuity. The founding fathers were no demigods but
                    did marry ideas to power. As Wood observes, they could not maintain the marriage, and indeed they
                    helped create the changes that eventually led to their undoing. They led, formed, and liberated
                    public opinion as a new political force. They could not control it. Expectations that the people,
                    once freed of English influence, would remain faithful to the natural aristocracy who led the
                    Revolution, went unmet. Instead the people succumbed to deceit and the flattery of demagogues, and
                    America has never been the same. (Perhaps it is worth nothing that when Wood was gloomily
                    contemplating the persistent decline in the intellectual quality of American political life the
                    House Judiciary Committee was beginning hearings on impeachment of Richard Nixon.)
            Leadership in the American Revolution sometimes lacked brilliance but not stamina. Higginbotham finds
                    limited military  talent and professionalism but suggests the
                    American taste for survival led to ultimate victory. It was a leadership that, in the view of
                    Mazlish, lacked charisma and the traits of revolutionary asceticism found elsewhere. But, he
                    suggests, neither were vital to a revolution which was not national (as with 
                        France
                     in 1789) and had no feudal system to overthrow. Mazlish acknowledges the
                    colonists' fear of corruption, a fear he believes led to restraints on the leadership
                    rather than (as in 
                        France
                    ) the lavish grants of power to those believed incorruptible.
            But there are additional insights to leadership to be gleaned from the psychohistorian. Why was 
                        Washington
                     so cold and remote? Perhaps he was rejected by his mother, who also discouraged his
                    military ambitions; and so he moved from rejection by his mother to rejection by the British army,
                    followed eventually by his rejection of his mother country and a new military career. Obviously
                    Mazlish does not argue that 
                        Washington
                     or any Revolutionary leader can be accounted for exclusively in Oedipal or other
                    psychological terms. But he does raise important questions, which if developed with a firmer grasp
                    on historical realities and the Revolutionaries' self perception, can enlarge our
                    understanding.
            
               San Diego State University, San Diego Trevor Colbourn
         
         
            
               Slavery and the Churches in Early America, 1619–1819. By Lester B.
                    Scherer. (Grand Rapids: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1975. Pp. 163. Notes, index.
                    $5.95.)
            In this book Scherer explores the relationship between the organized religious traditions of early
                    America and the developing institution of chattel slavery. He confines his examination to the two
                    hundred years following the arrival of the first black slaves in 
                        Virginia
                    . His volume proceeds in chronological fashion, separating the period into three parts
                    with divisions at 1700 and 1763. Scherer directs his attention successively to the changing nature
                    of slavery during the colonial, provincial, and revolutionary-early national eras and to the
                    evolving attitudes of various religious communities in the same periods. He concludes that during
                    these years the churches of the land for the most part uncritically accepted the dehumanizing
                    institution of slavery.
            
            There are few surprises in Scherer's study, and for good reason. He has drawn extensively
                    upon the standard literature in the field including the prize winning works by David Brion Davis and
                    Winthrop D. Jordan. The result is a readable but far from exhaustive treatment of the interaction of
                    religion and society on the issue of slavery. One of his most interesting
                    suggestions—though not well documented—is that the Great Awakening had at best
                    only a slight impact upon the Christianization of blacks in America, contrary to the usual depiction
                    of the revival as a major impetus toward conversion of the slaves. Unfortunately Scherer bases his
                    judgment principally upon reflections by the revivalists George Whitefield and Samuel Davies. One
                    might wish for other corroborative evidence such as that derivable from local congregational
                    records. The strength of this book lies in its clear presentation of the manner in which the
                    churches came more and more to accept the cultural assumptions supporting slavery. With the primary
                    exception of the dissent expressed in 
                        Quaker
                     societies and occasionally in other communities, the churches with one voice sanctioned
                    the developing social and economic order. The preachers worked out theological rationalizations for
                    slavery, and the slave owners in turn utilized the religious formulations as devices for social
                    control. In this way the churches contributed to the establishment of a system which exploited the
                    "faith in America's whiteness" and the "fear of
                    blackness" (p. 120).
            Scherer's volume is helpful because it summarizes a wide range of literature in a short
                    compass. In the process it also quietly indicts the religious traditions of early America for their
                    part in the unplanned conspiracy which deprived Africans of their freedom and burdened American
                    society with a legacy of racial attitudes and institutions.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Stephen J. Stein
         
         
            
               Correspondence of James K. Polk. Volume III, 1835–1836. Edited by
                    Herbert Weaver; associate editor, Kermit L. Hall. (
                        Nashville
                    : Vanderbilt University Press, 1975. Pp. xxxvi, 836. Maps, notes, illustrations, index.
                    $25.00.)
            The high standards established in the two preceding volumes of Folk's correspondence are
                    maintained in volume  III. Annotations are sparse, but, in most
                    instances, the editors have ably provided explanatory comments where they are needed. As Polk
                    continued his rise to power within the ranks of the Democracy, the amount of his correspondence
                    naturally increased. The editors have been forced to be more selective about which letters to
                    include. After examining almost one thousand letters, 506 were published in toto,
                    and 184 were summarized.
            The years 1835–1836 were tumultuous ones for Polk. Elected speaker of the House of
                    Representatives in December, 1835, Polk presided at a time when the Democratic party was threatened
                    by factionalism. This was especially true in his home state. The presidential compaign of 1836
                    splintered the Jacksonian party in 
                        Tennessee
                    . Polk and his political allies were forced to contend with a formidable opposition led
                    by Hugh L. White.
            The letters reveal the origins of the movement on the part of the 
                        Tennessee
                     congressional delegation to nominate White as Jackson's successor. Although
                    urged repeatedly to support White's candidacy, Polk steadfastly refused. In one significant
                    letter Polk discussed the opposition's efforts to break the administration ranks by running
                    White. Polk explained how the attempt to woo White away from his allegiance to the Jacksonians had
                    been slowly intensified. Correctly assessing the Whigs' so called regional strategy Polk
                    predicted that they would try to throw the election into the House, "where the money of the
                    Bank and the patronage of the Government might be used to purchase and corrupt votes, and perhaps be
                    enabled to elect the opposition candidate against the popular will" (p. 45). These two
                    themes— that the election might go to the House and that the Bank of the 
                        United States
                     might use bribery to influence the outcome—appear throughout the
                    correspondence.
            Oddly, in light of the national furor created by abolitionism, surprisingly few references to it
                    exist in Polk's correspondence. With that massive obtuseness which he sometimes displayed,
                    Polk dismissed abolitionism as a "wholly political" (p. 430) scheme on the part of
                    the opposition. One immediately recalls that delightfully fuzzy section of his Diary when, in writing about the Wilmot Proviso, Polk claimed that he could see no connection
                    between making peace with Mexico and the issue of slavery.
            
            ‘Other letters in the volume cover a wide variety of topics. Some discuss the forced
                    migration of the southeastern Indian tribes as well as the beginning of the Seminole War. A few
                    correspondents refer to the 
                        Texas
                     Revolution. Perhaps the paucity of letters on the Texan war indicates their realization
                    that any mention of Davy Crockett, even in death, would irritate Polk, who had detested Crockett. Of
                    course, many letters concern a myriad of political appointments.
            Readers interested in Indiana history will have their curiosity aroused by a letter of April 12,
                    1836, from Polk to Charlotte Baynton. In a footnote following it, the editors identify this brief,
                    noncommital correspondence as a response to Baynton's "claim to a large tract of
                    land frequently referred to as the ‘state of Indiana’" (p. 578).
                    Although the editors direct readers to a letter from Baynton to Polk, it does not appear anywhere in
                    the volume.
            A number of minor editorial errors such as this do occur, but they do not detract from the overall
                    effort which is superb. Students of the Age of Jackson are deeply indebted to the work of Professor
                    Weaver and his associates in providing these documents in printed form.
            
               
                  
                            Western Illinois
                         University, Macomb John M. Werner
         
         
            
               Laura Clay and the Woman's Rights Movement. By Paul E. Fuller. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1975. Pp. ix, 216. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $12.50.)
            This is a careful study of one of the "lost" women of the suffrage movement in the 
                        United States
                    . Fuller shows that Laura Clay, a 
                        Kentucky
                     aristocrat, deserves a place on the second rung of American suffragists under Susan B.
                    Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and Carrie Chapman Catt. In exploring the life and motives of 
                        Clay
                    , Fuller reveals insights into the long campaign for equal rights in the 
                        United States
                    .
            The author follows the life of 
                        Clay
                     from her birth in 1849 at 
                        White Hall
                    , near 
                  Richmond, Kentucky
               , to her death in 1941. He examines 
                        Clay
                    's three roles in the woman's movement: as a leader to reform the laws
                    of 
                        Kentucky
                     relating to women and children; as a prominent supporter of the suffrage campaign in
                    her state; and finally as auditor  and later member of the
                    business committee and the executive committee of the National American Woman's Suffrage
                    Association (NAWSA) for fifteen years. Fuller shows how 
                        Clay
                    's talents as business manager, mediator, and skillful speaker enabled her to
                    function successfully in all these positions.
            Using the Laura Clay Papers as his primary source, Fuller points out the early influences which made 
                        Clay
                     a feminist. Her mother, Mary Jane Clay, efficiently managed their 
                        Kentucky
                     estate during the long, frequent absences of her father, Cassius Clay. Her father, a
                    well known abolitionist and politician, served as the American ambassador in 
                        St. Petersburg
                     from 1861 to 1869. When his rather stormy marriage ended in divorce in 1878, Laura and
                    her sisters grasped immediately the unequal status of their sex as they witnessed how economic
                    rights were denied to their mother. Although Mary Jane Clay had built the White Hall mansion and
                    improved and managed the estate successfully, she possessed no legal rights to the property.
            
               
                        Clay
                    's mother believed that her children should be educated, and in 1863 she sent
                    Laura to the Sayre Female Institute in 
                        Lexington
                     where she received an academic education. At school 
                        Clay
                     wrote in her diary: "I am a woman, but I think I have a mind superior to that
                    of many boys of my age, and equal to that of many more" (p. 8). A devout Episcopalian, 
                        Clay
                     then added a sentence omitted by Fuller: "Therefore when we get to heaven we
                    will be equal." Fortunately, however, she did not wait for heaven. As a "practical
                    farmer" of the three hundred acres given to her by her father in 1873 she developed an
                    independent income. With these resources 
                        Clay
                     entered the University of 
                        Michigan
                     from which a brother had been graduated.
            Although successful in her year at the University of 
                  Michigan, Clay
                left her studies and
                    turned to reform and the woman's suffrage movement. She always believed that suffrage
                    should be granted by the states partly because the race issue complicated the movement in the South.
                    Considering her abolitionist background she was a moderate in her views concerning blacks. Partly as
                    a matter of expediency she believed that the southern states should grant suffrage only to literate
                    women "irrespective of the color line" (p. 55). It was her conviction about states
                    rights which led her to  break with NAWSA over its support of
                    the Anthony constitutional amendment. 
                        Clay
                     feared that the enforcing clause of the amendment would open the door to federal
                    intervention in state affairs.
            In the final chapter Fuller points out that 
                        Clay
                     had always viewed the fight for woman's rights as a many sided struggle. As an
                    Episcopalian she worked for church laity rights for women. She also urged the admission of women to
                    southern colleges. 
                        Clay
                     played a role in the Democratic party and actively campaigned for Alfred E.
                    Smith's presidency. Finally, when eighty-six she defended the concept of equal pay for
                    equal work at the University of 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            The author succeeds in showing the importance and motives of Laura Clay to the woman's
                    rights movement. He has expanded his dissertation in a useful book which saves 
                        Clay
                     from being at best a footnote in the story of the struggle for woman's rights.
            
               
                  
                            Eastern Michigan
                         University, Ypsilanti, Margaret L. Rossiter
         
         
            
               The War Generation: Veterans of the First World War. Edited by Stephen R. Ward. (
                        Port Washington
                    , N. Y.: Kennikat Press, 1975. Pp. 192. Notes, index. $12.50.)
            One of history's lessons is that warriors sometimes have exerted great influence upon their
                    societies long after the clash of arms has been stilled. In documented essays prefaced by the
                    editor's introduction, five authors examine the actions, philosophies, and organizations of
                    veterans of the First World War in Britain, the 
                  United
                        States, France, Italy
               , and 
                        Germany
                    .
            Dealing with the British scene, Stephen R. Ward focuses on several organizations, the largest of
                    which was the British Legion which resulted from an amalgamation in 1921 of four earlier groups. He
                    infers that, following a time of militance in 1919 that won them limited governmental benefits,
                    British exservicemen generally slumped into apathy and opted for assimilation into civilian society.
            Donald J. Lisio's essay concerns veterans in the 
                        United States
                    , especially those belonging to the American Legion and Veterans of Foreign Wars.
                    Veterans' organizations gained congressional approval for a bonus in 1924 and later  a law providing for early payment of it; but, as Lisio
                    indicates, the power of veterans organizations to influence legislation can be exaggerated. Although
                    Lisio observes that the legion's national defense programs met with defeat, he neglects to
                    mention its role in the early successful campaign for the Veterans Bureau. Also, the
                    legion's founders would be taken aback by the assertion that their organization was formed
                    by General John J. Pershing. If any one individual above others deserves credit for creating the
                    legion, it was Colonel Theodore Roosevelt, Jr. Perhaps the chief strength of Lisio's
                    writing lies in his depiction of President Herbert Hoover as being more kindly disposed to former
                    soldiers than has been generally believed.
            In 
                        France
                     a number of veterans' groups existed. Robert Soucy, an authority on French
                    fascism, gives considerable attention to Henri Barbusse's small Association
                    Républicaine des Anciens Combattants which was oriented to communist causes. The gravest
                    domestic threat to the Third Republic emanated from the right, however; and Soucy devotes much of
                    his essay to the famous right wing Parisian riots of February 6, 1934. The fascist leagues were the
                    driving force behind that uprising, he says, and through them surged strong charges of
                    veterans' mystique.
            The value of Michael A. Ledeen's essay lies in its illumination of the Italian veterans
                    usually neglected by historians—those opposing Mussolini's fascism. In an essay
                    at times difficult to follow, Ledeen discusses the split in the veterans' organization, the
                    Arditi. This resulted in some exservicemen gravitating into the Duce's camp, others
                    pursuing far left causes under Argo Secondari, and still others rallying to the banner of the
                    antifascist Gabriele D'Annunzio.
            James M. Diehl traces the transformation of rightist military organizations into political combat
                    leagues dedicated to overthrowing the Weimar Republic of 
                        Germany
                    . He infers that they and certain veterans' groups, by constantly undermining
                    the Weimar government, contributed to the emergence of the Third Reich.
            This learned book merits perusal by anyone interested in veterans' affairs or in the
                    question of how wartime esprit de corps among fighting men can carry over into their civilian lives.
            
               Indiana Central University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Richard M. Clutter
         
         
         
            
               Charles A. Beard and American Foreign Policy. By Thomas C. Kennedy. (
                        Gainesville
                    : The University Presses of 
                        Florida
                    , 1975. Pp. xi, 199. Notes, appendix, bibliography, index. $8.50.)
            Charles A. Beard, who carved out a distinguished career as one of America's leading
                    historians through a prolific outpouring of creative and often controversial writings, almost
                    destroyed his professional reputation near the end of his life by the publication of two books
                    bitterly attacking Franklin D. Roosevelt's foreign policy and especially his role in the 
                        United States
                    ' entry into World War II. The author of this study attempts to show that the
                    anti-Roosevelt polemics represented a natural, if somewhat intemperate, culmination of a lifetime of
                    thinking and writing by the famous historian. Utilizing unpublished materials such as the surviving
                    fragments of Beard's correspondence as well as the vast bibliography of publications
                    written by and about him, Kennedy has drawn a credible portrait of a concerned scholar who during a
                    long and active career developed a logical and generally consistent understanding of American
                    civilization—one which embraced domestic social and economic reforms together with a
                    severely isolationist stance in foreign affairs.
            This broad survey of Beard's life and work reveals not only that his theory of
                    "continental Americanism" was in large part an extension of the economic
                    interpretation of history which he espoused for so long, but that its development was also
                    influenced by such factors as the general disenchantment with Wilsonian internationalism after World
                    War I, revisionist scholarship on the war guilt question, the impact of the Great Depression, the
                    rise of fascism in Europe, and the disclosures of the Nye committee concerning the arms traffic.
                    Perhaps Kennedy does not sufficiently stress Beard's iconoclastic temper and activist
                    philosophy which led him to employ his historical writings as weapons in a struggle to affect
                    American thinking on important issues, particularly in the area of foreign policy. But he indicates
                    clearly how Beard's historical studies as well as his observations of the world produced
                    strong convictions which he did not hesitate to express unequivocally in his books. One of these
                    convictions, that an overbalance of presidential power vis-a-vis Congress in the
                    making of foreign policy was a threat to constitutional government, seems to make Beard a harbinger
                         of much present day thinking about the "imperial
                    presidency." In this serious study of Beard's ideas on foreign policy Kennedy has
                    succeeded in showing the contemporary relevance of a great historian.
            
               DePauw University, 
                            Greencastle
                        , Ind. Clifton J. Phillips
         
         
            
               The Reaffirmation of Republicanism: Eisenhower and the Eighty-third Congress. By
                    Gary W. Reichard. (
                        Knoxville
                    : The University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press, 1975. Pp. xv, 303. Notes, tables, appendixes, bibliography, index.
                    $14.95.)
            Contrary to accepted belief, Dwight D. Eisenhower did not make futile and bungling efforts to reshape
                    the political philosophy of his party while he was president. Rather, as the title of this well
                    written study suggests, he basically agreed with the philosophy of his party on domestic policies
                    and, while he piloted the Republicans to a relatively united internationalist stance in foreign
                    affairs, there emerged during the first two years of his administration a "return and
                    re-affirmation of traditional Republicanism" (p. 237).
            Using quantitative techniques, Reichard divides the issues of legislative history into four
                    areas—foreign policy, fiscal and economic policy, welfare policy, and power and resource
                    development—to ascertain the extent of Republican agreement on the Eisenhower programs.
                    After defining the principal issues that Eisenhower either presented or endorsed, he then examines
                    the roll call votes to determine the opposition or support by Republicans and Democrats,
                    individually and collectively, in the Eighty-third Congress. He demonstrates rather conclusively
                    that, although the Republicans controlled this Congress by a bare majority, Eisenhower obtained
                    enactment of most of his programs by aggressively acquiring the support of his party leaders, the
                    vast majority of Republican congressmen, and many southern and border state Democrats who agreed
                    with traditional Republican philosophy. Reichard further demolishes two contradictory myths: that
                    Eisenhower was disinterested and incompetent in politics, and thus was an ineffective party leader,
                    and that he reshaped his party's thinking in foreign and domestic policies.
            
            The research is thorough, both in primary and secondary sources, and the judgments are sound. One
                    might argue that Reichard offers insufficient evidence for the implication that Eisenhower, rather
                    than Sherman Adams, effectively used patronage to control party members (p. 226). Also, it is
                    regrettable that the author did not analyze the issue of Joseph McCarthy and McCarthyism. Surely
                    this had a decisive impact upon the Republican party and also serves as an illustration of
                    Eisenhower's acute political tactics and philosophy of leadership. These cavils aside, this
                    is an important book that should do much to dispel the image of the thirty-fourth president as a
                    politically inept general directed and controlled by personalities far stronger than he. One cannot
                    help hoping that Reichard will make a similar study of the Democratically controlled Eighty-fourth
                    Congress, where the leadership roles were reversed, and thus explain Eisenhower's continued
                    political success in his first administration.
            
               University of 
                            South Dakota
                        , 
                            Vermillion
                        
                R. Alton Lee
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               John W. Foster: 
                            Evansville
                         Distinguished Citizen. By Daniel W. Snepp. ([
                        Evansville
                    ], 1975. Pp. vi, 87. Illustrations, notes, appendix, bibliography. Paperbound,
                    $2.00.) Daniel W. Snepp has produced a quite favorable but nonetheless very informative
                    and useful sketch of the life and public service of John W. Foster, a lawyer, historian, and career
                    diplomat. Based on considerable research, this account combines readability with a scholarly
                    approach. The booklet may be purchased by writing to Daniel W. Snepp, 2323 E. Mulberry St., 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana 47704. Donald F. Carmony, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The Life That Ruth Built: A Biography. By Marshall Smelser. (
                        New York
                    : Quadrangle Books, Inc., 1975. Illustrations, appendixes, index. $12.50).
                    This is a big book on a big subject. Smelser does not utilize biographers' traditional
                    sources, for athletes do not have the writing habits and sense of their own historical importance
                    that result in great manuscript collections. Instead, the author relies on the press, interviews,
                    and correspondence with people who knew George Herman Ruth. A Notre Dame professor with an enjoyable
                    sense of humor, the biographer draws also on his own broad knowledge of sports—including
                    the physical and mechanical aspects—and of psychology and on intellectual habits produced
                    by his study of history.
            In a detailed, complex, and fascinating book, Smelser demonstrates that the Babe deserves nearly six
                    hundred pages. A player who could pitch, field, and run the bases as well as hit with power, Ruth
                    was perhaps the greatest performer of his time. Surely the most outstanding player when the game
                    moved to the peak of its popularity, he was a revolutionary who contributed more than anyone else to
                    the development of baseball as a heavy hitting sport. Ruth was also tremendously popular.
                    "No other person outside of public life," Smelser suggests at the end,
                    "so stirred our imaginations or so captured our affections" (p. 560).
            Marked by efforts to explain as well as describe, the book suggests that serious study of the history
                    of sports deserves to become a larger enterprise. Richard S. Kirken-dall, Indiana
                        University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            
               The Black Hawk War, 1831–1832. Volume II, Letters and
                        Papers; Part I, April 30, 1831-June 23, 1832; Part II, June
                        24, 1832-October 14, 1834. Compiled and edited by Ellen M. Whitney. Collections of the 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Library, Volume XXXVI. (
                        Springfield
                    : 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library, 1973, 1975. Pp. xxi, xiii, 1358. Notes, maps.
                    $25.00, $27.50.) The projected four volume study concerning the Black Hawk
                    War, which is being published by the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library principally from its enormous Black Hawk War Collection, has
                        presumably reached roughly midpoint. Edited and compiled by
                    Ellen M. Whitney, volume I concerning the 
                        Illinois
                     Volunteers appeared in 1970. As the above heading indicates, parts I and II of volume
                    II has 1,358 pages of letters and papers running from April 30, 1831, until October 14, 1834. Even
                    so, volume II remains unfinished. Part III, announced to include appendixes and an index to parts I
                    and II, is promised for late 1976. The content for volumes III and IV, and the numbers of parts
                    therefor, if further multiple births are gestating, has not yet been announced. The Black Hawk War
                    Series, this reviewer notes with pleasure, in 1975 received an Award of Merit from the American
                    Association for State and Local History. On the basis of volumes I and II, this designation is well
                    deserved, for the material here supplied affords much significant and varied information about
                    American-Indian relations in general as well as the Black Hawk War in particular. But librarians,
                    scholars, and others who use this extremely valuable series can be forgiven if they find it quite
                    annoying to cite and describe the rather involved subtitles for volumes I and II. Donald F. Carmony, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               A Legal History of Money in the 
                            United States
                        , 1774–1970. By James Willard Hurst. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1973. Pp. xvii, 367. Notes, sources cited, index. $11.95.) The
                    distinguished legal historian James Willard Hurst has written widely on the relationships between
                    law and economic development. This scholarly account of the operation of law upon money is divided
                    into two parts: "Functions of Law and Functions of Money," showing the interplay
                    of the two; and "Allocations of Control over the System of Money," which treats
                    national and state government  authority over money, the
                    regulation and roles of private banks, and the division of responsibility among branches and
                    agencies of the federal government. The book will be of most value to specialists in legal and
                    economic history. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
                    Books Received
                
            
               
                  Jennison's Jayhawkers: A Civil War Cavalry Regiment and Its
                        Commander. By Stephen Z. Starr. (
                            Baton Rouge
                        : 
                            Louisiana
                         State University Press, 1973. Pp. xvi, 405. Illustrations, notes, maps,
                        bibliography, index. $12.95.)
               
                  The Complete Tales of 
                                Washington
                             Irving. Edited with an introduction by Charles Neider. (
                            Garden City
                        : Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1975. Pp. xxxvii, 798. $8.95.)
               
                  The Battle of New Market. By William C. Davis. (
                            Garden City
                        : Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1975. Pp. vii, 249. Maps, illustrations,
                        appendixes, notes, note on sources, index. $8.95.)
               
                  Portrait of a Decade: Roy Stryker and the Development of Documentary Photography
                            in the Thirties. By F. Jack Hurley. Photographic editing by Robert J. Doherty. (
                            Baton Rouge
                        : 
                            Louisiana
                         State University Press, 1972. Pp. ix, 196. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                        index. $12.95.)
               
                  Black 
                                New Orleans
                            , 1860–1880. By John W. Blassingame. (
                            Chicago
                        : The University of 
                            Chicago
                         Press, 1973. Pp. xvii, 301. Illustrations, appendix, tables, notes, bibliography,
                        index. $9.95.)
               
                  The American Century: A History of the 
                                United States
                             since the 1890s. By Walter La Feber and Richard Polenberg. (
                            New York
                        : John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1975. Pp. viii, 536. Illustrations, maps,
                        suggested readings, statistical data, index. Paperbound, $8.95.)
               
                  Reluctant Reformers: Racism and Social Reform Movements in the 
                                United States
                            . By Robert L. Allen, with the 
                        collaboration of Pamela P. Allen. (
                            Garden City
                        : Anchor Press/Doubleday, 1975. Pp. 347. Notes, index. Paperbound,
                        $3.50.)
               
                  Henry Winter Davis: Antebellum and Civil War Congressman from 
                                Maryland
                            . By Gerald S. Henig. (
                            New York
                        : Twayne Publishers, Inc., 1973. Pp. 332. Notes, bibliography, index.
                        $7.50.)
               
                  The Black West. By William Loren Katz. Revised edition. (
                            Garden City
                        : Anchor Press/Doubleday, 1973. Pp. xiii, 336. Illustrations, appendixes,
                        bibliography, index. Cloth-bound, $12.95; paperbound, $5.95.)
               
                  Rachel of Old 
                                Louisiana
                            . By Avery O. Craven. (
                            Baton Rouge
                        : 
                            Louisiana
                         State University Press, 1975. Pp. xiii, 122. Illustrations, appendixes.
                        $6.95.)
               
                  Ray Ginger's Jokebook about American History. Compiled and
                        annotated by Ray Ginger. (
                            New York
                        : New Viewpoints, 1974. Pp. 139. $8.95.)
               
                  An Introduction to Quantitative Methods for Historians. By Roderick Floud. (
                            Princeton
                        : 
                            Princeton
                         University Press, 1973. Pp. ix, 220. Tables, figures, bibliography, index.
                        Paper-bound, $3.45.)
               
                  The Pilgrims. By Francis Dillon. Revised edition of A Place for
                            Habitation: The Pilgrim Fathers and Their Quest. (
                            Garden City
                        : Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1975. Pp. x, 250. Notes, select bibliography,
                        index. $7.95.)
               
                  The Twenty-First 
                                Missouri
                            : From Home Guard to Union Regiment. By Leslie Anders. (
                            Westport
                         Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1975. Pp. x, 298. Maps, illustrations, bibliographical
                        essay, index. $17.50.)
               
                  Ancient Indians of the Southwest. By Alfred Tamarin and Shirley Glubok. (
                            Garden City
                        : Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1975. Pp. 96. End maps, illustrations, index.
                        $5.95.)
               
                  The Anabaptist Story. By William R. Estep. Revised edition. (Grand Rapids:
                        William B. Eerdmans Publishing  Company, 1975. Pp. viii,
                        250. Maps, notes, bibliography, index. Paperbound, $3.95.)
               
                  Death Song: The Last of the Indian Wars. By John Edward Weems. (
                            Garden City
                        : Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1976. Pp. xx, 311. End maps, illustrations,
                        notes on the chapters and bibliography of sources, index. $10.95.)
               
                  Indian Women of the Western Morning: Their Life in Early America. By John
                        Upton Terrell and Donna M. Terrell. (
                            Garden City
                        : Anchor Press/Doubleday, 1976. Pp. 194. Notes, selected bibliography, index.
                        Paperbound, $2.95.)
               
                  Folklore: From the Working Folk of America. Selected and edited by Tristram
                        Potter Coffin and Henig Cohen. (
                            Garden City
                        : Anchor Press/Doubleday, 1974. Pp. xlii, 468. Notes, indexes. Paperbound,
                        $3.50.)
               
                  The Rockets' Red Glare. By Wernher von Braun and Frederick I.
                        Ordway III. (
                            Garden City
                        : Anchor Press/Doubleday, 1976. Pp. vi, 212. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                        $9.95.)
               
                  Libraries for Today and Tomorrow: How Do We Pay for Them? Who Uses Them? Who
                            Staffs Them? What are Their Services? By Virginia H. Mathews, with an introduction by
                        Allie Beth Martin. (
                            Garden City
                        : Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1976. Pp. xii, 228. Appendixes, index.
                        Paper-bound, $3.95.)
               
                  The Buffalo War: The History of the Red River Indian Uprising of 1874. By
                        James L. Haley. (
                            Garden City
                        : Double-day & Company, Inc., 1976. Pp. xvi, 290. Maps, illustrations,
                        notes, bibliography, index. $7.95.)
               
                  Hang for Treason. By Robert Newton Peck. (
                            Garden City
                        : Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1976. Pp. 232. $6.95.)
               
                  Lindberg: A Biography. By Leonard Mosley. (
                            Garden City
                        : Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1976. Pp. xxx, 446. Illustrations, source
                        notes, index. $12.95.)
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
