
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 101, Issue 2, pages 125-208. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:101+issue:2+year:2005&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
        
        
            
            
                The Devil's Advocate Will H. Hays and the Campaign to Make Movies Respectable
                STEPHEN VAUGHN
                Although Will H. Hays's name remains synonymous with movie censorship, he should be remembered as one
                    of his generation's successful practitioners of public relations, the man who ushered motion
                    pictures into respectability in the 
                        United States
                    . Hays was an apostle of progress, an optimistic advocate of new media, and a skilled
                    user of publicity. He believed in the "absolutely limitless" power of movies to influence national
                    life, public taste and conduct, and the dreams of the young-indeed, no more potent means existed "to
                    influence the thought of the nation towards common ideals." The medium, he predicted, would change
                    the future.1
                
                The philosopher Mortimer Adler once described Hays as "a fascinating mixture of political astuteness
                    and naivete about the arts, the sciences, and philosophy." It is one of the paradoxes of Hays's
                    career that he came to symbolize the traditional values of small-town America while promoting a
                    modern means of communication that not only eroded those values, but seemed 
                        Stephen Vaughn teaches the history of communication at the University of 
                                Wisconsin, Madison
                            . His newest work is Freedom and Entertainment: Rating the Movies
                                in an Age of New Media (forthcoming). This article is based on research from a
                            forthcoming companion volume, Morality and Entertainment: Cinema, Censorship,
                                and Technology, 1907-1968.
                        
                            1 Will H. Hays, "Speech to the Publishers of the 
                                United States
                            ," April 26, 1922, pp. 7, 5, Will H. Hays Papers (Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                    
                     to many people to directly assault them. In attempting to
                    balance tradition and modernity in his work, Hays confronted a dilemma not unlike that faced by
                    other Hoosier political and cultural leaders during the early twentieth century. Residents of
                    Indiana (and the 
                        United States
                    ) were rapidly adopting modern ways of living, while many tried to cling to traditional
                    social and political values. In ushering the movies into this mainstream culture, Hays benefited
                    from his image as a parochial prude, and may have encouraged this perception. But in his enthusiasm
                    for cinema, and by his linking entertainment technologies to capitalism, Hays became modernity's
                        champion.2
                
                In the wake of a sensational sex scandal, Hollywood studio heads created the Motion Picture Producers
                    and Distributors of America (MPPDA) and asked Hays to become its first president in 1921. They
                    charged him with running Hollywood's business affairs and official communications, and convincing a
                    skeptical public that the industry could regulate itself. The MPPDA soon became known simply as the
                    Hays Office, and Hays remained its president until 1945. Under Hays's leadership, the MPPDA adopted
                    a twofold strategy. Hays is most remembered, of course, for the Production Code, the legendary rules
                    of censorship that tried to bind movies to the Ten Commandments by limiting any treatment of sexual,
                    social, or political issues; eliminating scenes of violence and crime; and forbidding offensive
                    language. Hollywood adopted the Code in 1930, more than eight years after Hays took the reins of the
                    MPPDA, and only after circumstances converged to force the hand of Hays and the studio heads.
                    Furthermore, enforcement of the Code did not come until 1934, after the Hays Office created the
                    Production Code Administration (PCA) and after Roman Catholics formed the Legion of Decency.
                Less known, but no less significant for American culture, the Hays Office mounted a long-term public
                    relations offensive. Rapidly becoming an "unseen power" in American society, many considered public
                    relations the "newly grown bastard of journalism," the invention of newspapermen and press agents.
                    Public relations, according to one of its architects, involved the "engineering of consent" to
                    present the best cases possible for clients and to mold-if need be even manipulate-public opinion.
                    Often the most effective public relations went unobserved behind the scenes, thereby blurring 
                        
                            2 Mortimer J. Adler, Philosopher At Large: An Intellectual
                                Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1977), 192. James H. 
                                Madison
                             has observed that to many Hoosiers, motion pictures "seemed to be a direct
                            assault on traditional values and ways in Indiana." 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana through Tradition and Change: A History of the Hoosier
                                State and Its People, 1920-1945 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1982), 366; see also 1-7, 367.
                    
                     the line between entertainment and news and creating what
                    Daniel Boorstin would later call "pseudo events."3 By the early 1930s, Hays had
                    established a public relations network that linked numerous American communities and exploited
                    virtually all mass media. Works that have treated Hays, the MPPDA, and public relations have
                    generally discussed the movie industry's cultivation of various parent, civic, and religious
                        organizations.4 They have not noted Hays's advocacy of new media, his effort
                    to create a public relations network that used local businesses, community leaders, and
                    institutions, nor his attempts to discredit the Payne Fund Studies, the first large-scale effort by
                    social scientists to examine the impact that movies had on the young.
                Film studios and the press had conspired long before Hays appeared on the scene, but after World War
                    I, events spun out of control as one scandal after another plagued Hollywood. The immediate problem
                    arose in the 1921 scandal involving Roscoe "Fatty" Arbuckle, a rotund comedian whose popularity at
                    the time was perhaps second only to Charlie Chaplin. Even before the Labor Day scandal that
                    destroyed his career, Arbuckle had been the focus of rumors. In July 1921, newspaper reports
                    appeared describing a dinner that movie moguls had given the comedian more than four years earlier
                    in which prostitutes had been present and alleging that Hollywood magnates had raised $100,000 to
                    keep the matter quiet. All this paled in comparison to events in early September 1921. Arbuckle and
                    some of his Hollywood friends rented rooms at the St. Francis Hotel in 
                        San Francisco
                    , and the party that followed featured bootleg liquor and heavy drinking. 
                        
                            3 Scott M. Cutlip, The Unseen Power: Public Relations:
                            A History (Hillsdale, N.J., 1994), 7, 186; Edward L. Bernays, "The Engineering of Consent,"
                                Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 250
                            (March 1947), 113-20; Daniel Boorstin, The Image: A Guide to Pseudo-Events in
                                America (
                                New York
                            , 1964). See also Bernays, "Molding Public Opinion," Annals of the
                                American Academy of Political and Social Science 179 (May 1935), 82-87.
                        
                            4 See, for example, Ruth A. Inglis, Freedom of the Movies:
                                A Report on Self-Regulation from The Commission on Freedom of the Press (
                                Chicago
                            , 1947); Leonard J. Leff and Jerold L. Simmons, The Dame in the
                                Kimono: Hollywood, Censorship, and the Production Code from the 1920s
                                to the 1960s (
                                New York
                            , 1990); Gregory D. Black, Hollywood Censored: Morality Code,
                                Catholics, and the Movies (
                                New York
                            , 1994); and Frank Walsh, Sin and Censorship: The Catholic Church
                                and the Motion Picture Industry (
                                New Haven
                            , 1996). Studies of Hays and the MPPDA also do not consider Joseph Breen's work
                            in public relations, nor public relations calculations in the censoring of some motion
                            pictures. Hays's lieutenant in the MPPDA, Breen headed the PCA for most of the period
                            between 1934 and his retirement in 1954. Marvin N. Olasky characterizes Breen as being in
                            many ways the "opposite of Hays," Corporate Public Relations: A New Historical
                                Perspective (Hillsdale, N.J., 1987), 64. See also Ruth Vasey, The
                                World According to Hollywood, 1918-1939 (
                                Madison
                            , Wis., 1997), 29-62.
                    
                    
                    
                        The "Fatty" Arbuckle Scandal, September 1921. For many people, news of the Arbuckle scandal
                            suggested that the movie industry was out of control and that government intervention was
                            necessary to clean up Hollywood's act.
                        
                            The 
                                    Los Angeles
                                 Times, September 10, 1921
                     A young actress, 
                        Virginia
                     Rappe, who had been in Arbuckle's room, died of peritonitis; an autopsy revealed
                    bruises and internal injuries. Rumors circulated that Arbuckle had raped the woman (possibly with a
                    Coke bottle) and that his great weight-almost 300 pounds-had ruptured her bladder. The district
                    attorney wanted to try Arbuckle for murder, but a grand jury returned an indictment of manslaughter,
                    leading to accusations that the actor's celebrity had gained him special treatment. During the
                    trials that followed (the first two of which ended in hung juries), the comedian was buried under an
                    avalanche of publicity. Not only was Arbuckle's libertine 
                    
                        Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks arrive at Union Station, 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919. Pickford's May 28, 1920, marriage to Fairbanks, more than two years
                            before her divorce with a former husband was finalized, symbolized the eroding of family
                            values in Hollywood.
                        Image from the collections of the Douglas Fairbanks Museum. Used with permission.
                     lifestyle examined in detail, but stories circulated about Rappe's reputation: that she
                    was a heavy drinker and a call girl, that she had contracted syphilis from a Hollywood director, and
                    that she had had several abortions. Although a jury acquitted Arbuckle, he was finished as an
                        actor.5
                
                These events seemed to confirm what many Americans already believed about the movie industry. While
                    Arbuckle became "a symbol of everything objectionable" about Hollywood, his was not the only movie
                    scandal of the period. The 
                        California
                     State Board of Pharmacy listed 500 performers as drug addicts; one of them, actress
                    Olive Thomas, died of an overdose on her honeymoon with Mary Pickford's brother in September 1920.
                    Early in 1922, newspapers reported the murder of director William 
                        
                            5 Terry Ramsaye, A Million and One Nights: A History of the
                                Motion Picture (
                                New York
                            , 1926), 806-808; Stuart Oderman, Roscoe "Fatty" Arbuckle: A
                                Biography of the Silent Comedian (Jefferson, N.C., 1994), 151-94; Andy Edmonds, Frame Upto The Untold Story of Roscoe "Fatty" Arbuckle (
                                New York
                            , 1991).
                    
                     Taylor, and rumors hinted at homosexuality and a drug deal gone
                    bad. Meanwhile, the public maintained a steady interest in news of Hollywood suicides and, more
                    commonly, Hollywood divorces. When "America's Sweetheart," Mary Pickford, divorced Owen Moore,
                    Nevada's attorney general started proceedings against her. The state's supreme court upheld the
                    divorce in 1922, by which time her marriage to Douglas Fairbanks was more than two years old. Gloria
                    Swanson reportedly planned to divorce her husband just a few months after giving birth to their
                    child. Other stories had Chaplin, also a divorce, cavorting nude with a young actress on Catalina
                    Island. As if these accounts were not enough, a trade journal published an expose on graft in the
                    movie business.6
                
                One other factor, not usually noted, probably helped persuade the studio heads to act. The Bolshevik
                    takeover in Russia created fear that cinema might be used to foment revolution. Before the rise of
                    Hollywood and consolidation of film making during the war, hundreds of films each year had dealt
                    with labor issues and the problems of working people. For some Americans, such topics acquired a
                    more threatening cast in light of recent world events.7
                
                Faced with scandals within and politics without, Hollywood's studio heads responded in a manner that
                    paralleled the recent actions of major league baseball executives, who, at the suggestion of public
                    relations pioneer Albert Lasker, had hired federal judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis to serve as the
                    sport's commissioner in the wake of the 
                        Chicago
                     Black Sox scandal of 1919.8 It was in this context that studio
                    owners elected to create their own public relations arm: the MPPDA. And it was in their quest to
                    manage this key agency that they turned to Will H. Hays.
                A native of tiny Sullivan, Indiana, Hays readily admitted that he knew little about film making. At
                    first glance he seemed the antithesis of a movie star. Small, slender, weighing scarcely 110 pounds,
                    he had a down-home 
                        
                            6 Alice Ames Winter to Will Hays, telegram, [1930?], An
                                American Tragedy file, Production Code Administration Files (Margaret Herrick
                            Library, 
                                Beverly Hills
                            , Calif.); Edmonds, Frame Up!, 246-47; Oderman, Roscoe, 164,
                            172, 186; Ramsaye, Million and One Nights, 803-806, 818-19; Kevin
                            Brownlow, Behind the Mask of Innocence (
                                New York
                            , 1990), 13-14.
                        
                            7 Steven J. Ross notes that the Red Scare and growing strength of
                            Hollywood turned films toward more conservative, anti-radical themes. Working
                                Class Hollywood: Silent Film and the Shaping of Class in America (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1998), 9, 133.
                        
                            8 Scott M. Cutlip, "A Public Relations Footnote To The Pete Rose
                            Affair," Public Relations Review 15 (Winter 1989), 46-48. During the 1910s
                            and 1920s, other industries also acted to prevent government regulation. See Ellis Hawley,
                            "Three Faces of Hooverian Associationalism: Lumber, Aviation, and Movies, 1921-1930," in
                            Thomas K. McCraw, ed., Regulation in Perspective: Historical Essays (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1981), 97-101.
                    
                     manner and prudish demeanor and served as an elder in the
                    Presbyterian church. But with Hays, as with Hollywood, appearances could be deceptive.9
                
                By the time he came to Hollywood's attention, Hays had risen from being a small-town lawyer to head
                    of the national Republican Party. His fascination with politics had begun in 1896, when he traveled
                    to 
                        St. Louis
                     with his father to attend the Republican convention that nominated William McKinley.
                    Naturally associating national progress with the Republican Party, he favored prohibition, woman
                    suffrage, and giving citizens ability to take direct action in public affairs. Hays liked Theodore
                    Roosevelt and considered himself "a liaison…between the standpat end of the party and the
                    progressives." It was his ability in 1916, as head of Indiana's Republican Party, to bring together
                    the warring factions of Bull Moose supporters and William Howard Taft conservatives that helped him
                    land his appointment in early 1918 as chairman of the national party. After 
                        Warren
                     G. Harding won the 1920 presidential election in a landslide, he rewarded Hays by
                    appointing him Postmaster General.10
                
                Hays innovatively used new media to build consensus and had recognized early the political
                    possibilities of motion pictures and newsreels. As chairman of the Indiana party, he hired a
                    cameraman during the 1916 election to record events and then prevailed upon theater owners around
                    the state to show the films in an effort to increase voter turnout. In May 1917, Governor James P.
                    Goodrich appointed him to head Indiana's State Council of Defense, an agency that worked closely
                    with America's first large-scale government propaganda agency, the Committee on Public Information,
                    to exploit the full range of communication from oratory to newspapers to posters. Recognizing that
                    many Americans were troubled by the unprecedented nature of the Great War, Hays approved films that
                    dealt with such topics as submarine warfare and the Red Cross. He witnessed firsthand how mass media
                    and propaganda could serve national power.11
                
                Hays carried lessons learned in Indiana to his work for the federal government. As national party
                    chair, he enlisted filmmakers in Harding's 
                        
                            9 O. O. Mclntyre, "The Truth about the Czar of the Movies," New Movie Magazine 2 (March 1930), 44.
                        
                            10
                            Portsmouth [?] Star, [Feb. 2, 1922?], Hays Papers. See also [Will H.
                            Hays], Memoirs of Will H. Hays (
                                Garden City
                            , NY, 1955), 57, 65; 
                                Norman
                             Hapgood, "Will Hays: And What the Pictures Do to Us," Atlantic
                                Monthly 151 (January 1933), 76.
                        
                            11 Hays, Memoirs, 100, 135-37. Hays's approach to
                            politics reflected what James 
                                Madison
                             has called "the Indiana idea," which held "that Hoosiers were generally alike,
                            that they avoided extremes, that they held on to past traditions, that they represented what
                            was typical and perhaps even best about America" even as the "sentiments and realities" on
                            which this idea rested were being "challenged and changed." Indiana through
                                Tradition and Change, 6.
                    
                     campaign for the White House. As early as May 1919, he huddled
                    with Hollywood executives to map strategy, and it was probably at this meeting that producers became
                    aware of Hays's talents.12
                
                In his work for the Postal Service, Hays attempted to modernize the nation's communication network.
                    He advanced what were then controversial policies, such as expanding the use of trucks and other
                    motor vehicles to deliver the mail. He tried to consolidate telegraph, telephone, and radio
                    communications into one department, an action that riled bureaucrats. He started a national postal
                    radio system that included fifteen stations to support the country's fledgling air-mail system. He
                    advocated air mail, and more generally air travel, even though he realized the hazards and expenses
                    of flying during the early 1920s. Through it all, he worked to draw the public to his side. It "all
                    added up to public relations," Hays said, and his year in office proved to be a whirlwind of
                    promotional conventions, meetings, and conferences with civic groups, chambers of commerce, women's
                    clubs, and any other groups that might exert influence.13
                
                Hays's well-cultivated public profile made him a natural candidate to head the new MPPDA. The
                    Hollywood executives, who initially considered Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover, concluded that
                    Hays's extensive Republican connections and staunchly pro-business stance gave him the best chance
                    of defeating pending censorship legislation. The predominantly Jewish moguls also calculated that
                    Hays's identification with the Presbyterian Church might also make the movie industry more
                    acceptable to Protestant America. Hollywood power brokers therefore hired their own czar, taking out
                    a $2,000,000 life insurance policy on Hays and paying him over $100,000 annually-eight times his
                    salary as a cabinet member and more than that of the President of the 
                        United States
                    . This financial arrangement is noteworthy, and one should never lose sight of the fact
                    that Hays's primary allegiance rested with his employers.14
                
                In Hollywood Hays advocated new technology in all its forms. He enlisted the movie industry to
                    promote the advantages of air travel. At President Harding's death in August 1923, Hays encouraged
                    national airmail 
                        
                            12 Hays, Memoirs, 107; Ramsaye, Million
                                and One Nights, 810, 813.
                        
                            13 Hays, Memoirs, 288; see also 284, 289-91, 301-11.
                        
                            14 Nine film corporations comprised the original membership of the
                            MPPDA, and more than a dozen others soon joined. See undated newspaper clipping by Quinn L.
                            Martin [late 1921], attached to Booth Tarkington to Will H. Hays, December 8, 1921, Hays
                            Papers; W. J. Greenwood, telegram to Will H. Hays, January 16, 1922, Hays Papers; Associated
                            Press story, [January 16, 1922], Hays Papers; "Original Members," [March, 1922], Hays
                            Papers; Ramsaye, Million and One Nights, 809-10, 813.
                    
                     mail delivery distribution of newsreel footage of the funeral.
                    Hays thought that both aviation and motion pictures confronted similar problems: they needed to put
                    their own affairs in order, inspire the public imagination, and forge themselves into essential
                    industries by producing what the government and national economy needed.15
                
                Hays also linked cinema to the growing electrical industry. The spread of electricity, he told Martin
                    J. Insull, the president of Middle West Utilities Company in 
                        Chicago
                    , was his "daily preoccupation." Both the movies and the electrical companies promoted
                    progress and transmitted "the newest in ideas, inventions and art" to cities and villages alike.
                    "Wherever the screen opens the gates of the world to all mankind," Hays said, electrical power would
                    be the "ally, the indispensable friend, of motion pictures."16
                
                Such technological concerns were simply means toward Hays's central mission, which was to convince
                    the public that motion pictures could be a positive force. They possessed educational, moral, and
                    inspirational possibilities, he argued. They could carry the best in music, literature, science, and
                    medicine to nearly everyone, no matter how isolated. If this medium could be harnessed, he reasoned,
                    civilization would rise to new heights. The movies, he told a radio audience early in 1930, would
                    improve living standards everywhere and promote world peace.17
                
                Seeing an important connection between communication and national power, Hays encouraged producers to
                    make films with patriotic themes that extolled Americanism. During World War I, the Warner brothers
                    and other producers had discovered that patriotic films were profitable and that flying the flag
                    brought respectability. Hays found such patriotism to be one of the best ways to transcend criticism
                    of the industry, especially during the late 1930s and early 1940s as international events lurched
                    from one crisis to another. Hays considered his field of operation to consist of more than just the
                    home front: "We are going to sell America to the world," he said, "with American motion
                        pictures."18
                
                Hays enthusiastically fostered the movies’ potential for advancing business. The film industry itself
                    had seemingly infinite commercial promise, he believed, generating more income in 1922 than all the
                    public utilities 
                        
                            15 Hays, Memoirs, 311, 313, 317.
                        
                            16 Hays to Martin J. Insull, August 15, 1929, Hays Papers.
                        
                            17 M.EP.D.A. Is Organized With Will H. Hays at Helm," Exhibitors Herald [March 18, 1922?], 37, Hays Papers. See also Hays, "Speech to
                            the Publishers."
                        
                            18 Hays, quoted in John Trumpbour, Selling Hollywood to the
                                World: U. 5. and European Struggles for Mastery of the Global Film Industry,
                            1920-1950 (
                                New York
                            , 2002), 17, see especially 17-90.
                    
                     in the 
                        United States
                     combined. But cinema was also a catalyst for the whole economy, a great "international
                    salesman"; films were "animated catalogs" that advertised American goods to other countries. For
                    Hays, there was "no more fascinating story in the history of the world than the account of how our
                    American industries have grown, pliably, adaptably, to meet changing conditions." Indeed, the
                    "significance and romance of inventive and industrial progress" translated into "the pure gold of
                    drama." During the Great Depression, Hays, like many American corporate leaders, emphasized the
                    cause of saving capitalism. The belief that cinema could and should promote capitalism proved one of
                    the strongest common denominators uniting Hays with his successors, Eric A.Johnston and Jack
                        Valenti.19
                
                Hays's public relations work in Hollywood must be seen in the context of American business during the
                    1920s and 1930s. In this heyday of public relations, such corporations as AT&T, General
                    Motors, Ford, and General Electric turned to advertising agencies or to publicity experts, such as
                    Bruce Barton, to create an image. Yet Hays held more publicity power at his disposal than any of
                    these corporate giants.20 Through his Committee (later Department) on Public
                    Relations, established in 1925, he responded to attacks on the industry, tried to engage citizens in
                    making movies more acceptable, and attempted to make "customers out of critics." Hays assumed that
                    modern media possessed the power to change the way people thought, to implant-at least
                    indirectly-"standards of taste and morals and arts in the public mind." Public taste was malleable,
                    "to a certain degree, plastic," as he told the Rotarians in 1934; it could "be molded into new and
                    better forms." Public relations could convince skeptics that moviemakers were good citizens,
                    well-intentioned, and capable of self-regulation. Hays believed that such a campaign offered the
                    best and perhaps the only realistic way to prevent government intervention.21
                    Adopting an "open door" policy (much as he had as chairman of the national Republican Party and as
                        
                        
                            19 Hays, "The Film Is an International Salesman," speech delivered to
                            National Trade Council, 
                                Los Angeles
                            , May 22, 1930, p. 1, Hays Papers; Hays, radio address, March 29, 1930,
                            mimeographed, p. 5, Hays Papers; Hays to Martin J. Insull, August 16, 1929, Hays Papers. On
                            the efforts of American corporate public relations to "save the system" during the 1930s,
                            see Roland Marchand, Creating the Corporate Soul: The Rise of Public Relations
                                and Corporate Imagery in American Big Business (Berkeley, Calif., 1998), 202-48.
                            Although it is too early to assess the policies of Dan Glickman, who succeeded Jack Valenti
                            in September 2004, it is likely that his work will continue to promote free enterprise.
                        
                            20 Marchand, Creating the Corporate Soul.
                        
                        
                            21 Annual Report, Public Relations Department," February 5, 1934, p. 2,
                            Hays Papers; Hays, "Speech to the Publishers," 6; "Rotary Interviews Will H. Hays About the
                            Movies," [April 2, 1934J,5,4, Hays Papers.
                    
                     Postmaster General), Hays welcomed representatives from women's
                    groups, civic associations, and citizens who wished to comment on films. When dealing with critics,
                    he followed his father's advice to get "so close to the mule he can't kick you.22
                
                One way to approach the mule came through the press. Hays regularly kept tabs on news stories and
                    editorials about Hollywood, assuming that they reflected public sentiment and could also modify
                    opinion. He cultivated reporters and editorial writers, and considered their support essential. "My
                    contacts with newspapermen have been so many and so close that it would be impossible for me to
                    overrate their influence," he wrote. "How often have I seen editorials arouse, shape, and
                    consolidate public opinion."23 In exchange for favorable press coverage, the
                    MPPDA pressured studios to produce films that portrayed journalists and advertisers favorably. This
                    policy eventually extended to other professions and institutions of authority as well-judges, law
                    enforcement officers, businessmen, religious leaders, and the like.
                If Hays listened to critics and sometimes made concessions to them, he also found that flooding the
                    media with favorable publicity proved one of the most effective ways to overwhelm them. The public
                    relations department churned out news releases, pamphlets, and magazine articles, and published a
                    monthly magazine about the industry's accomplishments. A speakers’ bureau recruited people to talk
                    about the movies, and by 1929, more than 1,000 addresses had been given, most over the radio. The
                    public relations department gained impressive momentum during its first decade. In the course of a
                    year it routinely gave 15,000 interviews and turned out several times as many letters.24
                
                This flood of publicity through the press told only part of the story: the Hays Office attempted to
                    extend its influence into every community with a movie theater. During his first three years in
                    Hollywood, Hays established relations with more than fifty religious, civic, educational, and
                    professional organizations-among them the General Federation of Women's Clubs, Daughters of the
                    American Revolution, International Federation of Catholic Alumnae, Boy Scouts, American Library
                    Association, and Young Men's Christian Association. He supplied their conventions with free films
                    and arranged personal introductions for their representatives with studio 
                        
                            22 Hays, Memoirs, 157, 351.
                        
                            23 Ibid, 98.
                        
                            24 "Annual Report, Public Relations Department," 2. See also Garth
                            Jowett, Film: The Democratic Art (
                                Boston
                            , 1976), 176-78; Inglis, Freedom of the Movies, 97-116.
                    
                     heads. The creation of the department of public relations
                    helped Hays to expand his cooperative efforts to include hundreds of national and regional
                        associations.25
                
                Hays's plan also involved turning local committees of movie-goers into "genuine motion picture
                    councils." The committees, composed of local leaders, would offer advice and promote what they
                    considered to be good films. By 1934, the PR department estimated support from 100,000 volunteers,
                    and that number was growing rapidly. In the previous year alone, the department claimed that it had
                    enlisted an additional 10,000 community leaders: 6,000 school teachers, newspaper editors, and club
                    leaders; 1,200 librarians; 2,000 managers of theaters; and 800 clergymen and YMCA secretaries. By
                    word-of-mouth and other means, they promoted movies and countered criticism from people who did not
                    attend films. Hays found the latter objective particularly important because he believed that
                    "nearly all the public relations irritation and legislative trouble" resulted from "the activities
                    of critical non-customers.26
                
                In several respects, the Hays Office's strategy replicated a technique used by American propagandists
                    during World War I. George Creel's Committee on Public Information had enlisted 75,000 local
                    speakers to give short talks supporting the war. These "Four Minute Men" acted as surrogates for
                    President Woodrow Wilson in an era before regular radio broadcasting Creel's short-lived but
                    sensational efforts paled in comparison with the accomplishments of the MPPDA: Hays estimated that
                    before his retirement in 1945, his office had 600,000 men and women "doing something on an organized
                        basis."27
                
                Like a propaganda machine, the Hays Office exploited all forms of media, leaving no outlet untapped.
                    Hays claimed in 1930 that his industry daily produced 15,000 pieces of movie advertising at an
                    annual cost of $100,000,000. In early 1934 the PR department claimed that more than 500 newspapers,
                    including influential metropolitan dailies, were publishing lists of recommended films and otherwise
                    cooperating. At least 100 radio stations regularly broadcast publicity material. Volunteer telephone
                    committees tried to spread the good word about cinema, in keeping with the MPPDA's conviction that
                    word-of-mouth promotion seemed more spontaneous and sincere than commercial advertising. Concerned
                    to gain the confidence of teachers and parents, Hays asked libraries and schools to 
                        
                            25 Inglis, Freedom of the Movies, 100-105.
                        
                            26 "Annual Report, Public Relations Department," 6, 2.
                        
                            27 Hays, Memoirs, 351.
                    
                     publicize locally approved movies. Although the national Parent
                    Teacher Association stood at odds with Hollywood, Hays knew that many of the local PTAs remained
                    fiercely independent, and he worked to separate them from the national organization. In early 1934,
                    the PR department noted that nine state organizations, including 
                        California
                    , had repudiated the national leadership's stand on the movies.28
                    Looking back later in his life, Hays revealed more than he realized when he wrote that he doubted
                    "whether any other industry has ever made such a record of organizing active good will in its
                    support on so large a scale."29
                
                Some of this record can be traced to a strategy of what might be called "defensive publicity." The
                    strategy included a practice of infiltrating meetings of critical groups, such as the PTA, with
                    people who represented the Hays Office. When these representatives took the floor, their recorded
                    remarks were then circulated by Hays's publicity managers to create the perception of a group
                    divided. Another tactic involved publicizing scholarly research that countered attacks on the
                        industry.30
                
                Hays possessed a genius for absorbing criticism. In fact, some groups found that the MPPDA's open
                    door became a "trap door." Hays's pitch to parents, teachers, and the general public emphasized that
                    Hollywood had taken steps to require the studios to strive for the highest "artistic" and "moral"
                    standards. To make his point, he held up two sets of guidelines embraced by the industry: "The
                    Formula," adopted in 1924, requested that studios present questionable scripts to Hays's office.
                    Three years later, PR department head Colonel Jason Joy drew up a list of "Don'ts and Be Carefuls."
                    Joy had visited several state censorship boards in 1927 to see firsthand what the censors disliked.
                    He presented a list of eleven "don'ts" and twenty-six "be carefuls." The "don'ts" forbade the
                    showing of illegal drug traffic, nudity, sexual perversion (homosexuality fell under this heading),
                    white slavery, miscegenation, sex hygiene and venereal diseases, childbirth, and the sex organs of
                    children. They also prohibited profanity, ridiculing of clergy, and offensive depictions of any
                    nation, race, or creed. Topics to be treated with care included arson, sedition, criminal
                    techniques, 
                        
                            28 "Annual Report, Public Relations Department," 7-8.
                        
                            29 Hays, Memoirs, 351. See also Hays, "Film As an
                            International Salesman," address to the National Foreign Trade Council, 
                                Los Angeles
                            , May 22, 1930, p. 4, Hays Papers; "Annual Report, Public Relations Department,"
                            2, 6-9, 11.
                        
                            30 Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America, Public Relations of the Motion Picture Industry: A Report by the Department of Research
                                and Education, Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America (
                                New York
                            , [c. 1931]), 92; Inglis, Freedom of the Movies,
                        109-10.
                    
                     marriage, seduction, and "excessive or lustful kissing,"
                    especially if it involved a villain.31
                
                Hays knew that "The Formula" and the "Don'ts and Be Carefuls" were little more than window dressing
                    because he had few means of enforcing them. During the 1920s, these public relations gambits worked
                    well enough, and he could count several successes, most importantly the fact that none of the
                    thirty-two censorship bills introduced in state legislatures in 1922 had passed. The greatest
                    victory came in 
                        Massachusetts
                    , where Hays enlisted the support of more than 90 percent of the state's newspapers, and
                    volunteers canvassed the state to persuade voters to reject a censorship referendum-a feat
                    accomplished by a vote of better than two-to-one. At the national level, Hays's organization helped
                    stave off legislation that proposed creation of a federal motion picture commission.32
                
                For all his success at avoiding intervention and advocating the use of new technologies, Hays
                    learned, at the end of the decade, that innovation could also create problems. The advent of sound
                    technology during the late 1920s created a new crisis and escalated demand for regulation. This
                    "magical transformation," as one of the studio chiefs called it, made the movies more lifelike and
                    greatly expanded the range of entertainment. Movies became more appealing as actors could be both
                    more forthright and more subtle. A sly emphasis upon an appropriate or inappropriate word, or a
                    double entendre, could alter the meaning of a scene if not an entire film. By making it easier for
                    filmmakers to circumvent the spirit if not the letter of any code, sound technology increased the
                    worries of those who wanted to regulate movies. "Silent smut had been bad," wrote the Rev. Daniel
                    Lord, S.J., a noted critic of "modern" thought. "Vocal smut cried to the censors for vengeance.33
                
                
                    
                        31 Inglis, Freedom of the Movies, 111, 114-16. See also
                        Edward De Grazia and Roger K. Newman, Banned Films: Movies, Censors and the First
                            Amendment (
                            New York
                        , 1982), 31-32.
                    
                        32 For the techniques used to defeat the 
                            Massachusetts
                         referendum, see Jowett, Film, 167-69. National legislation had been proposed in
                        1923 and 1926. Garth S. Jowett, "'A Capacity for Evil': The 1915 Supreme Court Mutual Decision," Historical Journal of Film, Radio and Television 9
                        (1989), 74.
                    
                        33 "Harry Warner Tells Story of Birth of Sound Pictures," speech to League
                        of American Penwomen, January 10, 1930, p. 1, Hays Papers; [Daniel A. Lord], Played
                            By Ear: The Autobiography of Daniel A. Lord, S. J. (
                            Chicago
                        , 1955), 295. On the coming of sound to motion pictures, see Donald Crafton, American Cinema's Transition to Sound, 1926-1931 (
                            New York
                        , 1997), 447; Vasey, World According to Hollywood, 1919-1939,
                        63-99. On the technology of cinema before sound, see Richard Koszarski, An Evening's
                        Entertainment: The Age of the Silent Feature Picture, 1915-1928 (
                            New York
                        , 1990), 139-61.
                
                
                Almost overnight, sound rendered the "Don'ts and Be Carefuls" and Hays's political skill insufficient
                    to silence calls for government intervention. Efforts for government control took at least two
                    forms: attempts to enact legislation to regulate film content, and legal efforts to abolish the
                    monopolistic practices by which studios controlled not only the production but also the distribution
                    and exhibition of moving pictures. In 1929, Charles C. Pettijohn, the MPPDA's general counsel,
                    informed Hays that most of the forty-three state legislatures meeting in 1930 would consider film
                    censorship. At the national level the Brookhart Bill, proposed by Senator Smith Brookhart of 
                        Iowa
                     in 1928, threatened to outlaw block booking the policy of forcing theater owners to buy
                    all of a studio's films in order to be assured of getting movies with the most popular stars.
                    Although the bill never passed, President Hoover and the Justice Department, alarmed by the growing
                    power of the large studios, contemplated antitrust action. In the face of such threats, Hollywood
                    executives became more willing to make concessions on content.34
                
                In spite of Hays's careful cultivation of mainstream community groups, pressure for controls came not
                    only from the government but from such civic and women's associations as the National Congress of
                    Parents and Teachers, the International Federation of Catholic Alumnae, the National Society of the
                    Daughters of the American Revolution, and the General Federation of Women's Clubs. By 1930, the
                    latter organization supported film preview committees in almost every state. Even Hays's personal
                    life came under attack. His divorce in 1929, after a twenty-seven-year marriage, and rumors that he
                    was engaged to an attractive divorcee, did nothing to strengthen his standing among people convinced
                    that movies were undermining the family. Unimpressed by Hays, his associates, and the MPPDA, critics
                    characterized them as little more than "moral masks" disguising Hollywood's depravity.35
                
                
                    
                        34 C. C. Pettijohn to Hays, memorandum, 1929, p. 2, Hays Papers. Another
                        controversial policy, "blind booking," forced exhibitors to purchase unmade films. Raymond Moley
                            The Hays Office (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1945), 195. On Hays's efforts to calm Herbert Hoover's worries about the movie
                        industry, see Hays, memorandum, Aug. 28, 1929, Hays Papers; Hays to Dear Chief [Herbert Hoover],
                        August 28, 1929, Hays Papers; John Lord O'Brian to Hays, October 8, 1929, Hays Papers; Stephen
                        Vaughn, "Morality and Entertainment: The Origins of the Motion Picture Production Code of 1930,"
                            Journal of American History 77 (June 1990), 45.
                    
                        35 "Selling Synthetic Sin," Churchman [1929?], copy in
                        Hays Papers. See also Alice Ames (Mrs. Thomas G.) Winter, "Women's Organizations and the Films,"
                        November 30, 1929, Hays Papers; press release of General Federation of Women's Clubs, January 9,
                        1930, Hays Papers; Jowett, Film, 177-80. For rumors about Hays's remarriage,
                        see 
                            
                                Washington
                             Post, January 4, 1930, p. 2; "Engagement of Hays to Divorcee Rumored," Tulsa [
                            Oklahoma
                        ] World, January 5, 1930.
                
                
                Among the most outspoken critics remained Protestant and Catholic groups whose misgivings about
                    cinema's impact on Christian civilization predated the industry's conversion to sound and reflected
                    a deep uneasiness about modern life in general. Their denunciations took on an anti-Semitic tone as
                    they pointed to the Jewish origins and control of the motion picture industry. The Methodist
                    publication Churchman attacked the MPPDA for being a "smoke screen" hiding the "meretricious
                    methods" of "shrewd Hebrews who make the big money by selling crime and shame." Even more formidable
                    than Protestant critics were Roman Catholics. Because of the Church's hierarchical structure,
                    Catholic leaders more effectively organized their followers to boycott offending movies, a practice
                    formalized in 1934 with the creation of the Legion of Decency.36
                
                If the furor created by the talkies edged the industry into a corner, the Great Depression pushed its
                    leaders squarely against the wall. Hays now tried another, more serious attempt at
                    self-regulation-the Production Code of 1930. The Code attempted to bind movie entertainment to a
                    standard of morality independent of public taste. It incorporated almost all of the "Don'ts and Be
                    Carefuls," endorsed broadly Judeo-Christian values, and sought to protect the authority of the state
                    and the sanctity of the family.
                The Protestant Hays tapped Catholic leaders to help draft the Code. Martin Quigley, the Catholic
                    publisher of the Exhibitors Herald-World, served as a mediator between the
                    Church's hierarchy and film executives in negotiations during 1929 and early 1930 that led to the
                    Code's adoption. George Cardinal Mundelein of the Archdiocese of 
                        Chicago
                    , who found himself in an influential position with investment bankers who came to
                    leverage studios during the depression, threw the Church's authority behind the new document.
                Perhaps fearing the strong anti-Catholic sentiments embedded in American culture, Hays denied that
                    the Code was narrowly Catholic and downplayed the contributions of his Catholic collaborators.
                    Nevertheless, Catholic theology played an important part in defining this politically and socially
                    conservative document. Father Lord seized his opportunity as primary author to "put solid
                    theological and moral bones" on the code, and more than any single person influenced the tone and
                    substance of the new 
                        
                            36 The Churchman quoted in Robert Sherwood, "Will Hays Unhappy Czar of
                            Much-Buffeted Films," 
                                
                                    Kalamazoo
                                
                             [
                                Michigan
                            ] Gazette, [Oct. 6,1929? 1, clipping in Hays Papers. For attacks on Hays and the
                            MPPDA, see Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America, Public Relations
                                of the Motion Pictures, 144-51; Churchman, July 6, 1929, p. 8;
                            August 3, 1929, pp. 8-9; September 21, 1929, p. 14; November 2, 1929, p. 9; December 7,
                            1929, p. 9; December 28, 1929, p. 14. During 1929 and early 1930, The Christian
                                Century was also critical of Hays and the MPPDA.
                    
                     rules that would govern movie entertainment. Although he
                    preferred anonymity at the time, Lord recognized the opportunity "to tie the Ten Commandments in
                    with the newest and most widespread form of entertainment." Here was a chance, he wrote, "to read
                    morality and decency into mass recreation." But the Code also needed to appeal to a broad public, to
                    "stand up before the immoralist, the amoralist, the skilled dramatist, the producer who had risen
                    from the slums, the auditor, the audience, the films of the day and of fifty years from now," so
                    that "the follower of any religion, or any man of decent feeling and conviction, would read it and
                    instantly agree."37
                
                Unfortunately, from the perspective of the Code's supporters, the battle to commit cinema to
                    Judeo-Christian ethics faltered in the absence of effective provisions for its enforcement. One year
                    later, Lord himself pronounced the plan a failure. In response, the MPPDA in 1934 established the
                    Production Code Administration under the resolute leadership of Joseph I. Breen, a militant Catholic
                    layman. The Code exerted its most powerful influence during the late 1930s, and although its
                    authority began to wane after World War II, it touched nearly all pictures made between 1934 and
                    1968, when a new rating system was adopted.
                Beset by Catholics and other religious and parental groups clamoring for censorship, and threatened
                    by the New Deal's concentration of power in 
                        Washington
                    , Hays's reluctant codification efforts in no way protected Hollywood from the
                    publication of the Payne Fund Studies (PFS). This twelve-volume study on motion pictures and youth,
                    prepared by a group of social scientists, began to appear in 1933, and opened a new front of attack
                    on the movies and gave ammunition to the MPPDA's many existing critics.
                The PFS had originated in 1928, when the executive director of the Motion Picture Research Council,
                    William H. Short, invited several university researchers to examine the effects of movies on
                    children. Short was neither without credentials nor without an agenda. A Congregational minister who
                    had been a leader in the 
                        New York
                     Peace Society, the League to Enforce Peace, and the League of Nations Non-Partisan
                    Association, he was also an outspoken critic of the movies. In 1928, he published A Generation of
                    Motion Pictures, a book that pulled together redundant material from many sources condemning films.
                    Short considered motion pictures to be "easily the most powerful instrument in existence for 
                        
                            37 Wilfrid Parson to Editor, America, May 26, 1956, p.
                            213; Lord, Played By Ear, 298. Quigley played a role in getting studio
                            moguls to accept the Code, but Lord was the primary author. See Hays, Memoirs, 440; Vaughn, "Morality and Entertainment," 48-60.
                    
                     influencing opinion and conduct, especially among children and
                    the common people." Unfortunately, the industry rested "in the monopolistic grasp of a few men,
                    mostly of foreign birth" whose "vicious and obscene" films presented "false standards of life."
                    Audiences of innocent children and youth under twenty-one witnessed "pictures depicting vice, crime,
                    sex entanglements, and all conceivable forms of human wickedness and folly." Such movies certainly
                    made children sexually permissive delinquents and prevented their becoming good citizens, thereby
                    weakening adult morality and injuring America abroad.38 Unlike many censors,
                    however, Short favored local community decisions rather than government intervention. He opposed
                    block booking and blind selling because they undercut the community's "collective judgment."39
                
                The social scientists collected by Short employed scientific methods to study society's problems.
                    Financed by the Payne Fund (a private philanthropic foundation established in 1929 by Francis Payne
                    Bolton to support education and the arts), the scientists conducted their investigations between
                    1929 and 1932. The resultant pioneering attempt to evaluate the place of movies in America and their
                    effect on the young, although much maligned in subsequent years, remains the most extensive survey
                    on the subject. A recent reexamination of these volumes found that they continue to be "informative"
                    and "innovative," and are an example of "excellent early mass communication research." Another
                    analyst concluded that the PFS "undoubtedly presented a reasonably valid picture of the influences
                    of the movies of the 1920s on the youth of that period. The films were an influence on attitudes;
                    they provided models for behavior; they shaped interpretations of life."40
                
                As an example of the PFS authors’ relatively sophisticated approach to their topic, we might consider
                    the work of Edgar Dale of 
                        Ohio
                     State University. A professor of education, Dale wrote three of the twelve studies. He
                    had no intention of imposing "harmless … or clean films" on society, he 
                        
                            38 William H. Short, A Generation of Motion Pictures: A Review of Social
                                Values in Recreational Films (1928; 
                                New York
                            , 1978), 71-72.
                        
                            39 Short, in "First Symposium on Elements Out of Which a Program Looking
                            Towards National Film Policies in Motion Pictures Can Be Selected," September 15, 1933, p.
                            3, Motion Picture Research Council Papers, Box 57 (Hoover Institution Archives, 
                                Stanford
                             University, 
                                Stanford
                            , Calif.).
                        
                            40 Garth S. Jowett, Ian C. Jarvie, and Kathryn H. Fuller, Children and the Movies: Media Influence and the Payne Fund Controversy (
                                New York
                            , 1996), 5; Shearon A. Lowery and Melvin L. De Fleur, Milestones in Mass Communication Research: Media Effects, 2nd ed. (
                                New York
                            , 1988), 52.
                    
                     claimed, but his critics did accuse him of wanting to inflict
                    boring pictures on the public. That criticism obscured the fact that Dale had several worthy
                        objectives.41 First and foremost, he believed that the industry's economic
                    structure smothered artistic integrity. He argued for a national policy protective of free
                    expression in order that real artists could get the chance to put their visions on screen. As with
                    the work of great writers or painters, it did not matter that the moviemaker's vision might be
                    "incorrect," or that it might conflict with society's conventions. In fact, Dale acknowledged that
                    his plan might lead to pictures which were "flatly opposed to prevailing notions about things."42
                
                Dale also advocated media literacy. Comparable to drama, literature, painting, and music, cinema as
                    an art form was "too fine an instrument to be used only for passing entertainment or to kill time."
                    An educated public could discriminate between good and bad films-just as they might discern the
                    difference between great literature and pulp fiction-in order that they might "enjoy
                        with understanding." To that end, his first contribution to the PFS came in the form of a
                    manual, How To Appreciate Motion Pictures (1933), directed to high school
                    students. Addressing the gamut of filmmaking techniques-from cameras, to acting, directing, and
                    settings-the volume ended with controversial recommendations: to abolish the star system and its
                    accompanying celebrity culture; to produce different movies for adults and children; to create a
                    "new point of view regarding the place of motion pictures in our scheme of living" so that cinema
                    could better speak to such problems as abolishing war, crime and punishment, and "the more
                    satisfactory distribution of wealth;" and to promote the understanding of democratic government.43
                
                Dale believed that film's untruthful depictions of life harmed some viewers-especially children. He
                    made assumptions about cinema's influence for which he later was justifiably criticized, but he
                    demonstrated an awareness of the difficulties of trying to measure cause and effect. Modern modes of
                    transportation "greatly increased the possibilities of direct contact with a wide variety of
                    experience," while the movies, radio, and the press expanded "almost infinitely the possibilities of
                    indirect contacts." Still, Dale felt compelled to render some account of the harmful possibilities.
                    In The
                    
                        
                            41 Dale, in "First Symposium on Elements," 1.
                        
                            42 Ibid.
                        
                            43 Edgar Dale, How To Appreciate Motion Pictures: A Manual
                                of Motion-Picture Criticism Prepared for High-School Students (
                                New York
                            , 1933), 207, 6, 224, emphasis in original; Dale, Children's
                                Attendance at Motion Pictures (
                                New York
                            , 1935), 29.
                    
                    
                    Content of Motion Pictures (1935), he analyzed the topics presented in
                    approximately 1,500 movies produced between 1920 and 1930, and discovered that sex, love, and crime
                    dominated, with half of the movies that treated love also emphasizing sex. The consideration of
                    problems confronting single adults over thirty or of the difficulties encountered in marriage were
                    so unsatisfactory that Dale doubted whether young people gained any insight into what they might
                    later encounter. Rarely did films explain why people turned to crime. Criminals sprang
                    "Minerva-like…from the head of Jupiter" in the movies, and were not always shown to be punished. In
                    an age of prohibition, 75 percent of the films studied by Dale featured alcohol, with tobacco used
                    in almost 90 percent of the pictures. Conversely, movies that dealt with history, travel, or
                    children's themes accounted for only a minuscule percentage of the pictures that Dale examined.44
                
                In Children's Attendance at Motion Pictures (1935), Dale argued that a far greater
                    number of children attended the movies than the industry acknowledged. He called on parents to be
                    more active, preferably attending films with their children or, failing that, at least helping them
                    to interpret what they had seen.45
                
                One final interesting, but often overlooked, feature of Dale's study was his attempt to analyze
                    newsreels and encourage people to think more thoughtfully about news. Shown in conjunction with
                    motion pictures, newsreels had become an important way for people to receive information about the
                    world. The potential for distorting news when it was coupled with entertainment concerned not only
                    Dale but also thoughtful students of journalism during this period. Analyzing the output of two
                    major news-reel production companies during 1931 and 1932, Dale characterized the news as formulaic,
                    unimaginative, and disjointed; news items were usually unrelated to one another; and conversations
                    by the people shown, especially celebrities, often bore little or no relation to the content of the
                    story 
                        
                            44 Dale, Children's Attendance at Motion Pictures,
                            6-7; Dale, The Content of Motion Pictures (
                                New York
                            , 1935), 130. Dale analyzed 500 feature films released at five-year intervals
                            between 1920 and 1930. His method involved using plot summaries in Harrison
                                Reports; he actually watched 115 of these pictures, and selected forty to study in
                            detail.
                        
                            45 In 1929-1930, Dale examined 
                                Columbus, Ohio
                            , as a case study, and also sent out more than 50,000 questionnaires to collect
                            movie attendance data on school children in fifty 
                                Ohio
                             communities and several localities in one 
                                North Dakota
                             county. From that data, he extrapolated that throughout the 
                                United States
                            , perhaps a third of motion pictures audiences were made up of youth under the
                            age of twenty-one, and that parents were accompanying their children to the theaters less
                            and less frequently over time. Because children lacked adult experience, they were unable to
                            make mature judgments about what they watched and could "only acquiesce" in what they had
                            seen. Dale, Children's Attendance at Motion Pictures, 27.
                    
                     under consideration. Newsreels addressed sports far more than
                    any other topic.46
                
                The studies by Dale and his colleagues were more complex and qualified than this brief summary
                    indicates, and surely most nuances were lost when the journalist-magazine editor Henry James Forman
                    popularized them in a best-selling one-volume work, Our Movie Made Children
                    (1933). Forman warned: 
                        We pay for our school system. We pay for our water supply. We also pay for the motion
                            pictures. What would we say if any questionable character were to be allowed to come in
                            suddenly and take charge of our children's schooling? Or, if suspected water were even
                            occasionally turned into our mains? …. The vast haphazard, promiscuous, so frequently
                            ill-chosen, output of pictures to which we expose our children's minds for influence and
                            imprint, is not this at least of equal importance? For, as we cannot but conclude, if
                            unwatched, it is extremely likely to create a haphazard, promiscuous and undesirable
                            national consciousness.47
                        
                     Protestants, Catholics, and a multitude of other critics applauded and readily appropriated
                    from the Payne Fund Studies-or at least from Forman's stirring version of them-to support
                    conclusions they had already drawn about the threat of movies to American society and children.
                Hays, on the other hand, liked to speak reassuringly about children and movies. "We must have toward
                    that sacred thing, the mind of a child, toward that clean and virgin thing, that unmarked slate, we
                    must have toward that the same sense of responsibility, that same care about the impression made
                    upon it, that the best teacher or the best clergyman, the most inspired teacher of youth, would
                    have," he had said in 1922. He promoted 
                        
                            46 Newsreels relating to civil aviation were also common and, although
                            American foreign policy appeared isolationist and focused on disarmament, newsreel items
                            relating to war, the army, or the navy were twelve times more prevalent than stories about
                            peace. In the aftermath of prohibition's repeal, the newsreels were four times more likely
                            to carry hostile accounts. He found the coverage of health-related issues inadequate and
                            almost no stories relating to "psychological and vocational guidance," and recommended
                            increasing newsreel coverage of such issues. Dale, Content of Motion
                            Pictures, 220.
                        
                            47 Henry James Forman, Our Movie Made Children (
                                New York
                            , 1933), 140.
                    
                     a reputation as a family man, demonstrated concern that movies
                    might undercut the work of schools and churches, and admitted that his own six-year-old son, Bill,
                    Jr., knew more about Douglas Fairbanks than he did about George 
                        Washington
                    . Hays urged schools to place films alongside the McGuffey Readers to enliven geography,
                    history, and science with the aid of movies. Churches, too, could benefit from biblical pictures and
                    travelogues showing the holy land. Given these professed sentiments, one might have expected Hays to
                    be alarmed by the findings of the Payne Fund Studies-and he was, but not for the same reasons that
                    worried parents. Hays and his staff dubbed this research the "Payneful" Studies, and they marshaled
                    their considerable resources to discredit them.48
                
                By the time of the PFS's publication, Hays had already dealt with accusations that the movies caused
                    juvenile delinquency and crime. In the past he had argued, quite reasonably, for multiple causality:
                    racial tension, too much (or little) money, immigration, slums, automobiles, sensationalism in the
                    press, lack of parental supervision, lax law enforcement, weapons possession. Often he expanded his
                    case with the contention that movies combated crime by presenting the capture and punishment of
                    criminals. The Hays Office applied this reasoning to answer a report that appeared in 1929 by the
                    nationally known statistician, Roger Babson, who argued that movies were "the basic cause of the
                    crime waves of today"49
                
                By 1931, though, public relations advisers were telling Hays that he was too passive and that the
                    MPPDA was being routed in the publicity war. "We simply have no…coherent, sustained, energetically
                    pursued publicity policy," complained one adviser. "This astonishing doctrine of defeatism and
                    donothingism is the strangest and most fallacious platform on which I have ever known any publicity
                    department to operate."50
                
                Hays and his staff soon became much more adept at covering Hollywood's trail. When James Cagney's The
                        Public Enemy (1931) and other crime pictures came under attack for glamorizing
                    the life of gangsters, Hays hired a former policeman, August Vollmer, to watch these films and offer
                    an evaluation. Vollmer thought none of the pictures encouraged crime, and 
                        
                            48 Hays, "Speech to the Publishers," 6; K. L. Russell to Hays, April 14,
                            1933, p. 1; Russell to Hays, "Daily Report," May 2, 1933, p. 2, Hays Papers. See also
                            "Movies in Schools and Churches Is Director Hays's Plan, He Says," newspaper clipping,
                            [March 5, 1922?], Hays Papers; Ramsaye, Million and One Nights, 817. Lea
                            Jacobs argues that Hays viewed the Payne Fund Studies as a problem because they created bad
                            publicity for the movies. Jacobs, Wages of Sin: Censorship and the Fallen Woman
                                Film, 1928-1942 (
                                Madison
                            , Wis., 1991), 106-107.
                        
                            49 Babson, in 
                                
                                    Rochester
                                
                             [NY] Journal, June 27, 1929. See also 
                                
                                    Roanoke
                                
                             [VA] News, June 21, 1929.
                        
                            50 Lupton A. Wilkinson to Hays, memorandum, November 1, 1931, pp. 6, 7,
                            Hays Papers.
                    
                     even praised The Public Enemy for deterring
                    wrongdoing because it showed that "death swift and certain is inevitable for all so-called ‘big
                    shots.'" Vollmer and Hays either ignored, or failed to grasp, the powerful appeal that the
                    charismatic Cagney projected.51
                
                When the Payne Fund Studies appeared in 1933, Hays sought to assemble as much expert opinion as
                    possible to contradict, or at least cast doubt on, the volumes. As might be expected in any
                    gathering of minds, the researchers did not always agree, and they sometimes qualified their
                    conclusions, so Hays's agents attempted to turn opinion against the studies by exploiting these
                    weaknesses. They portrayed the studies as special-interest pleading which was methodologically
                    flawed, even hysterical, and utterly superficial in assigning blame for crime to the movies. The
                    best work in psychology and criminology, the Hays Office proclaimed, showed that the causes of crime
                    were far more complex than the PFS had suggested.
                The Hays Office launched an assault on one of the PFS's most vulnerable flanks, Forman's Our Movie Made Children, branding it "pseudo-scientific," and "definitely dishonest." The
                    charge was easily made because Forman, who was not a social scientist, had oversimplified the PFS.
                    Another weak point, Hays believed, was Short, the driving force behind the studies. The MPPDA
                    painted him as a "fanatic, reformer type," who had gathered around him other malcontents, or
                    researchers who were well-meaning but naive about the ends to which their research would be used.52
                
                While Hays and his staff crafted a carefully calculated plan to publicize the biased nature of the
                    PFS, they realized they too could be open to the charge of special pleading, especially if they
                    appeared unwilling to accept scientific evaluations. They therefore published more than three dozen
                    excerpts from American newspapers and magazines, and statements from about half as many educators
                    and social scientists, that cast doubt on the PFS's conclusions. "Only a disinterested approach to
                    the social problems of the screen can result in disinterested conclusions as to the possible
                    relationship of juvenile delinquency to motion picture entertainment," the MPPDA maintained, as if
                    Hays and his associates harbored genuine interest only in 
                        
                            51 Vollmer also liked The Public Enemy because it showed the social
                            origins of crime and suggested that "the gangster problem cannot be solved entirely until
                            the factors that produced the gangster are eliminated." Vollmer, memo to Hays, April 20,
                            1931, PCA Files. At Hays's request, Vollmer watched The Public Enemy, The
                                Finger Points, The Last Parade, Quick Millions, The Secret Six, and City Streets. He considered City Streets, for example,
                            psychologically "innocuous." Vollmer, memo to Hays, April 17, 1931, PCA Files. See also
                            Jason Joy to Darryl Zanuck, January 26, 1931, PCA Files; Vollmer to Hays, April 20, 1931,
                            Hays Papers.
                        
                            52 "Annual Report, Public Relations Department," 5, 27, 24.
                    
                     objective research. The Office carried this material before the 
                        United States
                     Senate to refute charges that movies caused juvenile delinquency.53
                
                As Hays's staff tracked editorials and stories about Hollywood during 1933 and 1934, they compiled
                    many pieces critical of the Payne Fund Studies. How many newspaper and magazine stories or radio
                    addresses had been planted, or written from releases supplied by the MPPDA, is impossible to
                    ascertain. Hays, who considered it an important part of his job "to see that editors were kept
                    informed," found them "quick to pass on interesting facts to the public." Certainly with the public
                    relations network that he had constructed, he was in a position to flood the media. While the Payne
                    Fund Studies did possess their shortcomings, that they fell into disrepute so quickly surely owed
                    much to the Hays Office's skillful publicity campaign.54
                
                Still, Hays longed for someone not merely to discredit his critics but also to give movies a
                    philosophical rationale-not unlike the way in which Lord had given the Production Code its moral
                    underpinning. He found his man at the University of 
                        Chicago
                     in the person of Mortimer Adler. When casting about for refutations of the PFS, Hays
                    discovered Adler's book (coauthored with Jerome Michael), Crime, Law, and Social
                        Science (1933). No friend of the social sciences, Adler doubted whether science could be
                    used to study humanity's most perplexing questions, including the causes of crime. "An empirical
                    science of criminology is not at present possible because no empirical sciences of psychology and
                    sociology now exist." Adler seemed just the person who could pin the "pseudo-science" label on the
                    Payne Fund Studies and make it stick.55
                
                In the Hays Office, Adler's book became "the Bible." Through a representative, Hays persuaded Adler
                    to appear in late 1934 before the Attorney 
                        
                            53 "Authoritative Statements Concerning the Screen and Behavior,"
                            compiled by Motion Pictures Producers and Distributors of America, Inc., December 1934 [most
                            likely 1933], 1, 2, Hays Papers. For Senate testimony, see Carl E. Milliken, "Memorandum on
                            the Question of Scientific Findings as to the Behavioristic Influences of the Screen
                            Particularly with Regard to Juvenile Delinquency," Submitted to the U. S. Senate
                            Sub-Committee on Racketeering, December 11, 1933, Hays Papers; "Annual Report, Public
                            Relations Department," 27, Hays Papers.
                        
                            54 Hays, Memoirs, 459. Recent studies have portrayed Hays as reacting
                            passively to the Payne Fund Studies, or have underestimated his role in trying to discredit
                            them. Gregory Black writes that the PFS "rendered Hays speechless …. Hays remained silent.
                            In so doing he missed an opportunity to thwart the forces of censorship that were gathering
                            strength for a renewed assault on the industry." Black, Hollywood Censored, 152, 154. Garth
                            Jowett, Ian Jarvie, and Kathryn Fuller contend that Hollywood's effort at self-regulation
                            through the Production Code and Production Code Administration rendered the PFS "moot."
                            Jowett, Jarvie, and Fuller, Children and the Movies, 9.
                        
                            55 Jerome Michael and Mortimer J. Adler, Crime, Law and
                                Social Science (
                                New York
                            , 1933), 85.
                    
                     General's Conference on Crime, where Adler testified as to how
                    little was actually known about crime. Shortly thereafter, Adler met with Hays, and there followed
                    other conferences with members of the MPPDA. Hays eventually asked the philosopher "to write an
                    analysis of the Payne Fund studies and all similar sociological and psychological researches on the
                    influence of the movies on human conduct, … in a manner similar to the review of criminological
                    research" in Crime, Law and Social Science. Adler's report became the tenth and
                    eleventh chapters in his book Art and Prudence (1937).56
                
                
                    Art and Prudence was at once a critique of the behavioral sciences and the Payne
                    Fund Studies, and a commentary on the relation between cinema, art, and morality. Issues involving
                    cinema's place in society, Adler believed, "were exactly the same problems that faced Aristotle and
                    Plato as moral and political philosophers in relation to Greek drama." Adler took particular pride
                    in the book's last section, "Cinematics," in which he tried to adapt to cinema the principles found
                    in Aristotle's Poetics.
                    57
                
                Philosophizing aside, Adler savaged the Payne Fund Studies. He attacked the methodology used by PFS
                    authors and argued for the absence of any scientific evidence proving that motion pictures caused
                    crime. Of Dale, Adler was scathing. "Dale's own opinion about the way in which the movies influence
                    behavior," he said, was "in no sense based upon his data." Obviously Dale did not know "the
                    difference between art and propaganda." Adler denounced "the superficial and unfounded character of
                    Dale's consideration of aesthetic, moral, and political questions. His lack of hesitation in
                    expressing his opinions is equal to his lack of careful analysis, his lack of relevant
                        knowledge."58
                
                Whether the MPPDA paid Adler for his critique of the Payne Fund Studies is unclear. Certainly,
                    though, Hays was so pleased with Adler's ability to put Hays's thoughts into words "that made him
                    feel comfortable" that he hired the philosopher as a consultant and ghostwriter, and paid him more
                    than half of what he made as a professor each year at the University of 
                        Chicago
                    . The job-which during World War II involved writing Hays's annual reports-required only
                    a few weeks out of each year, and was carried out in a swank 
                        New York
                     apartment furnished by Hays. Adler was seduced 
                        
                            56 Mortimer Adler to Leo Rosten, February 8, 1939, Mortimer J. Adler
                            Papers, Box 25 (University of 
                                Chicago, Chicago
                            , 111.). See also Adler in Proceedings of the Attorney General's
                                Conference on Crime, Held December 10-13, 1934 (
                                Washington
                            , D. C, 1934?), 72-73.
                        
                            57 Adler to Leo Rosten, February 8,1939, Adler Papers. See also Adler,
                                Philosopher At Large, 193.
                        
                            58 Adler, Art and Prudence: A Study in Practical
                            Philosophy (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 360-61, 362.
                    
                     by Hays. The philosopher later admitted to having "the
                    propensities of a sybarite," but concluded that "high living is not necessarily incompatible with
                    high thinking."59
                
                Hays believed that Art and Prudence "put a scholarly, philosophical foundation
                    under the self-regulating structure" of the MPPDA, but the professor's 650-plus pages were so
                    long-winded and obtuse as to be virtually inaccessible to the general public. Hays therefore turned
                    to Raymond Moley to write a short, popular account of Adler's work entitled Are We
                        Movie Made? (1938). As the title suggests, Moley was Hays's answer to Henry James Forman. A 
                        Columbia
                     University professor who had been a member of President 
                        Franklin
                     D. Roosevelt's New Deal brain trust, Moley agreed with Adler about the difficulty of
                    finding the causes of crime. He abridged Adler and remained faithful to the philosopher's text, down
                    to reproducing its mistakes. Moley believed that the audience should decide what was shown and
                    ridiculed Dale's ideas about topics that might be made into movies (agricultural problems, the
                    decline of frontier psychology). Perhaps most damning was his insinuation that Dale's proposals were
                    boring, for nothing so doomed pictures in the eyes of exhibitors or the public as to suggest that
                    they might be "educational."60
                
                Within a little more than a decade Hays made tremendous progress in strengthening cinema's place in
                    society. He had navigated treacherous legislative waters, successfully avoiding further government
                    regulation. He had gained the upper hand with critics.
                Hays had waged a massive public relations campaign to change the way Americans thought about the
                    movies. The scope of this undertaking was surely not known at the time, nor has it since been
                    appreciated. Part of this endeavor involved persuading people that Hollywood was setting its house
                    in order, was capable of regulating itself, and that scandals were "no longer accepted symbols of
                    the business." To those who would argue that 
                        
                            59 Adler, Philosopher At Large, 193, 194; see also,
                            Hays, Memoirs, 458-59.
                        
                            60 Hays, Memoirs, 459; Ramsaye, Million
                                and One Nights, 480. Moley accepted Adler's assertion, for example, that Dale had
                            taken data about movie attendance from school children in 
                                Iowa
                            , when in fact Dale had studied rural attendance in 
                                North Dakota
                            . Moley, Are We Movie Made? (
                                New York
                            , 1938), 15, 25, 29. See also Hays, Memoirs, 458; Dale, Children's Attendance at Motion Pictures, 44. In 1920, Moley had revised
                            and rewritten a study published by the 
                                Cleveland
                             Recreation Survey, which, unlike the Kerner Commission's Report in 
                                Chicago
                             that was published about the same time, concluded that in 
                                Cleveland
                             "an enlightened public opinion" was "constantly raising the standard of
                            pictures exhibited," and that improvement could be seen every year. 
                                Cleveland
                             Recreation Survey, Commercial Recreation (
                                Cleveland
                            , 1920), 46. In 1945, Moley wrote a history of the MPPDA. Moley, Hays Office.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Will H. Hays, August 12, 1941. Hays served as president of the Motion Picture Producers and
                            Distributors of America from 1921 to 1945.
                        Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, Martin Collection
                     movies were immoral, Hays could counter that the industry's Production Code grounded its
                    entertainment in Judeo-Christian morality. To those who contended that motion pictures were harmful
                    to children, caused juvenile delinquency, or otherwise encouraged asocial behavior, Hays could offer
                    plausible counters as to why such criticism was unreasonable. Moreover, he discovered how to muddy
                    the waters of public debate. Negative academic research could be blunted, if not discredited, by
                    enlisting testimony from other university authorities who had few qualms about accepting
                    compensation. To those who worried that film imported un-American values, Hays made a case that
                    movies were essential to the national economy, and he encouraged Hollywood to make patriotic
                    pictures. Motion pictures under Hays's leadership became an instrument promoting nationalism. Hays
                    attempted to convince Americans that this new medium was no less significant than the newspaper or
                    magazine press and hence deserved comparable  legal guarantees.
                    Adler, he hoped, would justify giving cinema greater freedom and at the same time enhance its status
                    as an art form.61
                
                Hays capitalized on the media revolution of his time. The movies emerged as one of the most powerful
                    forms of communication, but they hardly existed in isolation. When Hays and his associates enlisted
                    the latest techniques in mass advertising and public relations to exploit such developments as
                    radio, sound recording, photography, modern newspapers and magazines, comics, pulp fiction,
                    billboards, and the latest innovations in ground and air transportation, they created an
                    entertainment complex of unprecedented power and influence. By establishing a network of
                    volunteers-600,000 strong, if we take Hays at his word-the industry assured itself of access to
                    communication that reached into every level of society.
                Small wonder that entertainment and celebrity culture grew at such an astounding pace during the
                    1920s and 1930s. For those who opposed these developments, Hays's behind-the-scenes manipulation
                    brought cynicism about modern media. No matter how shiny the veneer Hays constructed for
                    moviemakers, to some they remained "false leaders" who were being swept into the public arena on
                    unrelenting waves of publicity. To the dismay of these early critics of cinema, celebrities
                    nonetheless became opinion makers and trendsetters, even as cultural critics who once held positions
                    of influence were finding themselves marginalized.
                It was much more than simply "an ironic accident of history," as it has been argued, that during the
                    same era when the motion picture industry became "a major social influence in American life, the
                    traditional power of the Protestant majority…declined." Despite his conservatism, Hays was
                    modernism's envoy. It may have been that such developments were inevitable, especially given the
                    explosive growth of mass media, but without Hays's direction, Hollywood's road to respectability
                    would have been more difficult. His remarks about the influential nature of cinema aside, it is
                    doubtful that this ambassador of the new media grasped just how dramatically society could be
                    changed, or foresaw what direction change might take. Nevertheless, he seemed relieved, if not
                    pleased, by the middle of 1934, as he sensed that the storm of criticism engulfing Hollywood was
                    beginning to subside. The "skies were clearing," he said; the "industry's buffeted ship" had
                    "reached open water" and was at last "free to go full steam ahead."62
                
                
                    
                        61 Ramsaye, Million and One Nights, 820. See also Adler,
                            Philosopher At Large, 75.
                    
                        62 Jowett, "'A Capacity for Evil,'" 75; Hays, Memoirs,
                        455. Hays headed the MPPDA until 1945, when he was replaced by Eric A. Johnston and the name of
                        the organization was changed to Motion Picture Association of America. Hays died in 1954 and the
                        Production Code remained in effect until 1966. In 1968, the movie industry adopted the present
                        rating system.
                
            
            
            
                The Other Side of Campus Indiana University's Student Right and the Rise of National Conservatism
                JASON S. LANTZER
                On a brisk spring day in March 1965, an estimated 300 Indiana University students assembled in Dunn
                    Meadow, the green oasis beside the Indiana Memorial Union where students often relaxed between
                    classes or met to play games. This day was different, however, as these students gathered not to
                    enjoy the atmosphere, but to speak their minds about the war in 
                        North Vietnam
                    . They carried signs, chanted slogans, and generally behaved, according to the campus
                    newspaper, the Indiana Daily Student (IDS), in a manner not unlike that of an
                    additional 650 students and locals who had also assembled in the meadow to hear speeches about the
                    civil rights movement in the wake of the recent march on Selma, 
                        Alabama
                    .1
                
                This convergence of civil rights and 
                        North Vietnam
                     demonstrations may sound like a typical episode of 1960s campus activism, but it was
                    not. A good half of the students attending the 
                        North Vietnam
                     rally marched in support of the 
                        United States
                    ’ commitment to halting the advance of communism in Southeast Asia. While such a show of
                    support was hardly uncommon, either at IU or at other college campuses nationwide, subsequent
                    studies of 1960s 
                        Jason S. Lantzer is a visiting lecturer in history at Indiana University-Purdue University 
                                Indianapolis
                            . For reading of and assistance with this essay, he extends his thanks to Prof.
                            Nick Cullather, 
                                Chad
                             Parker, and the IMH staff.
                        
                            1
                            Indiana Daily Student, March 10, 11, 12, 13, 1965; hereafter cited as
                        IDS.
                    
                    
                    
                        
                            "It's guys like you who give this campus a bad name." Contrary to
                            traditional depictions of the 1960s, IU students on the Right and Left actively engaged each
                            other during that tumultuous decade.
                        
                            Indiana Daily Student, October 7, 1967
                        
                     campus activism have tended to inherit from government investigators of the period a
                    tendency to define student protest as the purview of the Left.2 Though a growing
                    body of recent scholarship has challenged these kinds of assumptions about the period, recent
                    discussion, some of it appearing in the pages of the Indiana Magazine ojHistory,
                    has focused almost exclusively on the Left.3
                
                
                    
                        2 "Restless Youth," U. S. Central Intelligence Agency report, September
                        1968, reproduced in Declassified Documents Reference System (Farmington Hills,
                        Mich., 2005).
                    
                        3 Mary Ann Wynkoop, Dissent in the Heartland: The Sixties at
                            Indiana University (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 2002); Martin Ridge, Byrum Carter, Keith S. Parker, Michael J. King, and
                        Mary Ann Wynkoop, "Remembering Indiana University in the 1960s: Perspectives on Dissent in the Heartland" Indiana Magazine of History 99 (March 2003), 48-58. For
                        treatment of conservative student protest see Kenneth J. Heineman, Campus Wars: The
                            Peace Movement at American State
                    
                
                
                Obviously, this focus reveals only part of the story. An investigation of the campus activism of the
                    1960s and 1970s should consider the full range of student expression evoked by the complexity of
                    those times. Far from exhibiting what Richard Hofstadter deemed the "paranoid style" of many
                    conservative American movements (complete with persecution complex and void of relevant ideas), the
                    campus Right at IU and elsewhere provided a number of students with an alternative and highly
                    attractive worldview, one that both defended and critiqued the status quo.4 The
                    New Right's conservative ideology, like that of the radical Left, stood at odds with the consensus
                    "me-too-ism" of the 1950s, which joined Democratic and Republican elites in agreement on certain
                    foreign and domestic policy essentials. This study draws on contemporary IU sources and on more
                    recent interviews with several of the era's participants to locate conservative activists in a
                    variety of organizations that interacted with each other and with their liberal rivals to challenge
                    and change campus, national, and international issues.5 Though often viewed as
                    an enigma by consensus liberals and neglected by commentators, the Right's ideas prompted a
                    generation of activists who would, like their more widely recognized counterparts on the Left,
                    recall their campus experiences as the cornerstone of an effective effort to reshape American
                    politics and culture in the decades ahead.6
                
                Arriving in 
                        Bloomington
                     in the early 1960s, future student activists of both stripes found a campus environment
                    that many still remember with fondness. They appreciated the intellectual climate, dressing up for
                    class, and being taken seriously as young adults. Competing campus political 
                        
                            Universities in the 
                                    Vietnam
                                 Era (
                                New York
                            , 1993); David Steigerwald, The Sixties and the End of Modern
                                America (
                                New York
                            , 1995), 273, 275; Gregory L. Schneider, Cadres for Conservatism:
                                Young Americans for Freedom and the Rise of the Contemporary Right (
                                New York
                            , 1999).
                        
                            4 Richard Hofstadter, The Paranoid Style in American
                                Politics and Other Essays (
                                New York
                            , 1967).
                        
                            5 Interviewees were selected from the ranks of conservative activists at
                            IU in the 1960s. The process began with names identified by R. Emmett Tyrrell and from
                            reports in the IDS, and the referral list lengthened as the interviewing
                            progressed. Not all individuals could be located, nor did every contacted individual
                            respond, notably Thomas Huston and M. Stanton Evans. Notes from the interviews and email
                            exchanges will eventually be deposited in an appropriate archive.
                        
                            6 James Bopp, Jr., telephone interview with author, May 7, 2004; Robert
                            E Turner, email to author, April 23, 2004; "Forum on American Conservatism," American Historical Review, 99 (April 1994), 409-52; Rick Perlstein, Before the Storm: Barry Gold-water and the Unmaking of the American Consensus (
                                New York
                            , 2001); John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge, The Right Nation:
                                Conservative Power in America (
                                New York
                            , 2004); Steigerwald, The Sixties and the End of Modern
                            America, 273-74; Dominick Cavallo, A Fiction of the Past: The Sixties in
                                American History (
                                New York
                            , 1999), 3, 6-7. For an example of the consensus establishment attempting to
                            understand the Right, see Daniel Bell, ed., The Radical Right (
                                New York
                            , 1963).
                    
                     groups, including the Young Democrats and Young Republicans,
                    reflected the prevailing consensus in national politics. More social clubs than activist
                    organizations, these groups sponsored intellectual discussion and mock debates on national
                        issues.7
                
                The tone of such events fit well into an academic environment still governed by rules that modern
                    college students would find hard to imagine. As David Steigerwald has pointed out, universities of
                    the time "exercised the right of in loco parentis and regulated the lives of their students,
                    separating the sexes and imposing curfews." The culture of proscription carried over to the students
                    themselves. The student paper, for example, published tips about the "social etiquette" of proper
                    campus attire. Though these rules provoked some chafing, they prompted little change as the vast
                    majority of students did not care enough to organize against them-students attended IU to graduate,
                    not agitate.8 In a growing campus population throughout the 1960s, the IDS
                    estimated that the radical Left had never boasted more than one hundred members. IU was "not a
                    Berkeley" in the heart of the conservative Midwest. The "greenbaggers" were the fringe, and they
                    knew it. As the Young People's Socialist League readily admitted in 1965, they were "well aware that
                    we represent a minority point of view on the IU campus. We often find it depressingly difficult to
                    find a sympathetic audience here in Indiana."9
                
                More than any other, the issue of anti-communism brought an end to this complacency. For the group
                    that would come to be known as the New Right, the U.S. needed to stand firmly against the Red menace
                    at home and abroad. Those who organized the New Left, on the other hand, worried about domestic
                    witch-hunts and an activist foreign policy that seemed blind to social justice. What both groups
                    feared-perhaps even more than each other-was a continuation of what they saw as complacency in the
                    face of real problems. The extension of these political antagonisms to the nation's growing
                    involvement in 
                        North Vietnam
                    -and to the growing likelihood that American youth would be called to military
                    service-lay at the heart of a rising tide of campus political activism.10
                
                
                    
                        7 Turner, email to author, April 23, 2004; IDS, October 28, November 2, 4,
                        1966.
                    
                        8 Steigerwald, The Sixties and the End of Modem America,
                        1; IDS, October 15, 1963, February 12, 1966. Bopp, telephone interview with author, May 9, 2003;
                        Paul Helmke, telephone interview with author, April 28, 2004; R. Emmett Tyrrell, Jr., interview
                        with author, April 22, 2003; Wynkoop, Dissent in the Heartland, 23-24, 137-41.
                    
                        9
                        IDS, October 1, 1965, April 15, 1966. Tyrrell interview; Helmke interview;
                        Wynkoop, Dissent in the Heartland, 43-44.
                    
                        10 Tyrrell interview; John Andrew, "Pro-War and Anti-Draft: Young Americans
                        for Freedom and the War in 
                            North Vietnam
                        ," in Marc Jason Gilbert, ed., The 
                                North Vietnam
                             War on Campus: Other Voices,
                    
                
                
                The leading organization on the campus Right was the Young Americans for Freedom (YAF). Established
                    in September 1960 by a group of conservative thinkers gathered at the home of William F Buckley,
                    Jr., author of God and Man at Yale (1951), YAF was staunchly anti-communist and
                    supportive of the domino theory. The IU chapter of YAF grew under the leadership of Thomas Charles
                    Huston, a native of 
                        Logansport
                    , Indiana, who completed his undergraduate work at IU in 1963 and then went on to attend
                    law school in 
                        Bloomington
                    . Recognized by historians of the Left and Right as a top-notch conservative thinker,
                    Huston made anti-communism the center of his campus activism, believing that those who protested the
                    war in 
                        North Vietnam
                     only boosted the morale of the nation's chief enemy. Like his YAF colleagues throughout
                    the nation, Huston felt that activists on the Left underestimated the stakes in 
                        North Vietnam
                     and wrongly minimized the communist threat.11
                
                In this crusade against international communism and its campus defenders, Huston found an ideological
                    ally in Robert Turner. Like many young conservatives, Turner, who was the son of a military officer,
                    first became involved in politics by working for Barry Goldwater's 1964 presidential campaign. A
                    member of the campus Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC), Turner took a special interest in 
                        North Vietnam
                    . Due to his connections to the Intercollegiate Society of Individualists, he became IU
                    chapter president of the Society's Conservative League, which, under the direction of history
                    graduate student Phil Crane, had blossomed into the second largest chapter in the nation (behind
                    only the University of 
                        Texas
                    ). Like its parent organization, the Conservative League devoted itself to educating
                    college students through the distribution of literature and by holding intellectual debates on
                    current issues. In addition, Turner helped form the League's activist arm, Students for an Orderly
                    Society. Both groups worked with YAF to advance a conservative agenda, sharing ideas and members.12
                
                
                    
                        More Distant Drums (
                            Westport
                        , Conn., 2001), 3-5; Todd Gitlin, The Sixties: Years of Hope, Days of
                            Rage (
                            New York
                        , 1989), 62-63.
                    
                        11 Turner, email to author, April 23, 2004; Tyrrell interview; John Von
                        Kannon, email to author, April 28, 2004; IDS, September 28, 1963, November 6, 1964, October 22,
                        1965, January 17, 1967; 
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, June 1, 1966. On the origins and growth of YAF see Schneider, Cadres for Conservatism, 32; Andrew, "Pro-War and Anti-Draft," 1-2; James T.
                        Patterson, Grand Expectations: The 
                                United States
                            , 1945-1974 (
                            New York
                        , 1996), 455. On Huston see John Robert Greene, The Limits of Power:
                            The Nixon and Ford Administrations (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1992), 34; Wynkoop, Dissent in the Heartland, 13-14. YAF's
                        popularity is evidenced by the fact that in 1964 it added 5,400 new members, while SDS possessed
                        a total membership of approximately 1,500. Micklethwait and Wooldridge, The Right
                            Nation, 51.
                    
                        12 Turner, emails to author, April 25, May 23, 2003, April 23, 2004; IDS, March 3, 1964, January 6, March 16, April 12, 1966. On ISI see Schneider,
                        Cadres for Conservatism, 16-17; Perlstein, Before the Storm, 70-75. The group
                        has since renamed itself the Intercollegiate Studies Institute.
                
                
                
                    Vietnamese Communism Its Origins and Development Robert F. Turner
                    Robert F Turner's Vietnamese Communism: Its Origins and Development (1975). As
                        the background images of Marx, Lenin, and Ho Chi Minh suggest, Turner viewed the 
                            North Vietnam
                         War as an extension of the global fight against communism.
                    Courtesy Hoover Institution, 
                            Stanford, California
                        
                    
                
                Following the advice of conservative leaders like Buckley, Huston and Turner distanced themselves
                    from the ultra-conservative John Birch Society (founded in 1958 in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ) because of its extreme, and at times laughable, conspiracy theories, including one
                    that identified President Eisenhower as an agent of international communism. Nevertheless, the
                    Birchers actively engaged IU's campus community. In early 1966, Birchers who were students at IU
                    formally requested that the  Indiana General Assembly
                    investigate "communist and pro communist" groups at the university-specifically the Students for a
                    Democratic Society (SDS, founded nationally in 1962 and at IU in 1965) and IU's new W. E. B. DuBois
                        Club.13
                
                The Bircher request quickly led to a controversy over free speech, drawing reactions from all sides.
                    The openly socialist DuBois Club contended that its 
                        Bloomington
                     chapter was being investigated not only for past communist ties, but also as part of
                    the Johnson administration's effort to block campus debates about the war in 
                        North Vietnam
                    . IU officials quickly pledged themselves to defending free speech, but attempted to
                    sidestep local confrontation by suggesting that the Federal Bureau of Investigation, rather than the
                    state legislature, investigate the matter. The IDS editorial board acknowledged
                    the possiblity that the Birchers were correct about the club, but asked that people not be so
                    "close[d] minded" about new campus groups before they could even get under way. This stance brought
                    forth a flurry of student letters throughout the month: Judy Lowery blasted the IDS for not giving the Right the same intellectual credit it extended to the Left; Thomas
                    Pickering called on liberals to wake up to the dangers posed by communism.14
                
                The decision of the IU chapter of the DuBois Club to sponsor communist speakers-including national
                    Communist Party head Herbert Aptheker-forced IU administrators to decide if the group should be
                    banned. Surprisingly, student activists from the Right and Left did not think so. Turner announced
                    publicly in the IDS that, while he believed the DuBois Club to be a communist
                    organization, he also felt that IU students would not join. Firmly committed to the value of student
                    protest, Turner argued that the government lacked the right to halt the formation of a group, no
                    matter what its ideas were, because ideas could be safely debated. When the university at last
                    suspended the DuBois Club in September 1966, an estimated five hundred students protested at a rally
                    featuring speakers from 
                        
                            13
                            IDS, March 20, 1964, February 2, 1965, February 3, March 2, 1966; "Antiwar
                            and Antidraft Agitation Continues," J. Edgar Hoover to the White House Situation Room,
                            cable, July 26, 1968, Declassified Documents; Wynkoop, Dissent in the
                                Heartland, 14-18. The IDS reported that a similar inquiry in
                            1964, carried out under the authority of a 1951 Anti-Subversives Act, resulted in the
                            dissolution of the Young Socialist Alliance at IU. IDS, February 18, 1964.
                            However, while the topic of anti-communism came up repeatedly in the Indiana Legislature
                            during the late 1940s and early 1950s, and an anti-communist bill was proposed in 1951, the
                            author found no reference to the passage of such an act. Journal of the House
                                of Representatives of the State of Indiana, 87th Session (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1951), 164, 343.
                        
                            14
                            IDS, February 15, 23, 26, March 8, 11, 1966. The FBI labeled the DuBois
                            Club a front organization for the Communist Party, and Gitlin later characterized them as
                            being "dominated by the children of Communist and fellow traveler activists." "W.E.B. DuBois
                            Clubs of America," FBI Report, February 1, 1967, Declassified Documents;
                            Gitlin, The Sixties, 179.
                    
                     the SDS, Young Democrats, and Conservative League-all calling
                    for the club to be reinstated. Though members of the campus Left have argued that the club was
                    destroyed by the machinations of the FBI, Turner maintains that the DuBois Club folded once it could
                    no longer claim persecution by the Right and oppression by the government.15
                
                By 1965, the escalation of the conflict in 
                        North Vietnam
                     had shifted the focus of many conservatives’ fears from domestic to international
                    communism, especially in terms of its threat to the people of South 
                        North Vietnam
                    . Increasingly, conservatives both spoke and demonstrated in support of the war effort
                    (including, as we have seen, in Dunn Meadow). On campus, Bob Turner helped lead the 450-member
                    Student Committee for Victory in 
                        North Vietnam
                    , which promoted North Vietnamese liberation from the communists. YAF leader Tom Huston
                    took a special interest in anti-communism in Asia, in part because Red Chinese troops had killed his
                    missionary uncle prior to World War II. With his appointment to the post of national YAF chairman in
                    1965, Huston brought his zeal to a national arena, arguing that South 
                        North Vietnam
                     needed to be given the opportunity to function as a free and democratic country. As the
                    war went on, YAF eventually took a public stance against the draft (advocating the creation of an
                    all-volunteer army), but conservatives never abandoned the idea of total victory in 
                        North Vietnam
                    .16
                
                To fight against communism abroad implied contending with its defenders at home. Campus efforts in
                    support of the war were countered by the Committee to End the War in 
                        North Vietnam
                    , a discussion group that maintained that the war was being fought at the behest of
                    major corporations and that only socialism, by taking companies out of politics once and for all,
                    could bring peace. At IU, these sentiments found expression in the picketing of on-campus job
                    recruiters representing such defense-related companies as Dow Chemical and General Electric, as well
                    as the Central Intelligence Agency. As Huston later recalled in response to such actions, "the
                    gauntlet was down and our job was to support our country and its efforts … and to show that the
                    lanti-war] protestors weren't the only people that had an opinion."17
                
                
                    
                        15
                        IDS, April 29, May 3, 4, 1965, February 8, April 9, September 12, 17, 21, 23,
                        1966, February 22, 1967; Turner, emails to author, May 23, 2003, April 23, 2004. "W.E.B. DuBois
                        Clubs," Declassified Documents; Wynkoop, Dissent in the
                            Heartland, 32-36, 71-73. On collaboration between Right and Left see Andrew, "Pro-War
                        and Anti-Draft," 7.
                    
                        16 Tyrrell interview; IDS, March 11, 13, 1965, October 7,
                        1967, January 9, 1968. On Huston see Schneider, Cadres far Conservatism,
                        97-98; on YAF's draft stance see Andrew, "Pro-War and Anti-Draft," 8-11; Bopp, telephone
                        interview with author, May 7, 2004.
                    
                        17 Huston, undated, in Schneider, Cadres far Conservatism,
                        93. Helmke interview; IDS, February 17, 22, 1968, March 3, 1970; "Report on
                        Civil Rights and Anti-war Movements," CIA report,
                
                
                During the 1965-1966 school year, campus protests about 
                        North Vietnam
                     became increasingly common and contentious. When General Maxwell Taylor, the U.S.
                    ambassador to South 
                        North Vietnam
                    , spoke at IU, he was greeted by two very different groups. One, a "Support Senator
                    Hartke" rally, advanced Indiana Senator Vance Hartke's "extricate don't escalate" strategy towards
                    the war. The other, led by YAF and Students for an Orderly Society, aimed to demonstrate to the
                    general that the "vast majority" of IU students supported him in the war effort. A similar encounter
                    accompanied the campus visit of former Vice President Richard Nixon in October 1965. The following
                    May, when the director of the Selective Service spoke at IU, some 2,000 protestors, both pro and
                    con, clashed in Dunn Meadow, where, separated by the 
                        Jordan
                     River, they hurled comments-and eggs-at one another.18
                
                Divisions among students over the war found other manifestations as well. In October 1965 the Young
                    Democrats and Young Republicans jointly proposed a campus referendum on American policies in 
                        North Vietnam
                    . SDS called the war blatant "imperialism" and contended that the 
                        United States
                     was responsible for more atrocities than the communists. Senior class president Jim
                    Kittle pushed for the student senate to authorize a "Bleed-In" blood drive on campus to show support
                    for the war effort by benefiting American forces in 
                        North Vietnam
                    . After what the IDS called "the vehement protests of Guy Loftman," a
                    fellow senator and head of the campus SDS chapter, the senate voted a compromise that allowed donors
                    to indicate whether they wanted their blood sent to 
                        North Vietnam
                     or not. When the drive was over it was clear where the participants stood: of the 1,276
                    pints collected, nearly 1,000 were earmarked for Southeast Asia.19
                
                A little over a year after the Bleed-In debate, Turner announced that he was leaving the IU
                    Conservative League to become state chairman of the National Student Committee for Victory in 
                        North Vietnam
                    -a move that gave him a larger role in shaping the response to anti-war demonstrators,
                    as well as time to write a book about why the U.S. needed to light to victory in 
                        North Vietnam
                    .20 In April 1967, Turner helped bring together the Students for a
                        
                        December 1968, Declassified Documents. YAF appropriated this tactic in
                            1965 by protesting the Firestone Tire Company's proposed expansion into communist Romania,
                            forcing the manufacturer to withdraw. Thomas C. Mann, telegram, April 17, 1965, Declassified Documents.
                        
                        
                            18 Turner, email to author, May 23, 2003; IDS, March 13, October 19,
                            1965, January 8, February 25, May 3, 1966.
                        
                            19
                            IDS, October 8, 16, 29, 30, November 4, 6, 1965. During the debate, Kittle
                            and Loftman also clashed over the SDS's on-campus advocacy of draft-dodging.
                        
                            20
                            IDS, April 6, September 30, 1967. Turner's eventual tome-published two
                            years after U.S. withdrawal-argued that North 
                                North Vietnam
                             ran the war in the South, thereby countering New Left
                    
                    
                    
                        The "Bleed-In." Posters invite students to support American troops by donating blood, October
                            1965.
                        Arbutus, 1966, 219
                     Free Society, Young Republicans, and the IU and state YAF organizations into a Victory in 
                        North Vietnam
                     march, which took place in Indianapohs's Military Park alongside a previously scheduled
                    SDS-sponsored anti-war rally. Turner, 
                        claims that the war resulted from a U.S.-supported puppet government oppressing the
                            Vietnamese people for imperialistic ends. Turner, Vietnamese Communism: Its
                                Origins and Development (
                                Stanford
                            , Calif., 1975); Gitlin, The Sixties, 261-82.
                    
                     holding a pro-war sign, attempted to record some of the
                    anti-war speakers. One of the peace activists told him that he had no right to be there and punched
                    through the speaker of his recorder. Turner later told the IDS, "it's unfortunate
                    that the champions of free speech should resort to violence." Anti-war activists protested a pro-war
                    rally held in 
                        Bloomington
                     later that same month, and the protest/counter-protest pattern continued for the
                    duration of the conflict.21
                
                Increasingly, members of the campus Right looked to new ways of winning support that bypassed the
                    familiar politics of public demonstrations. Into this moment stepped R. Emmett Tyrrell, a swimmer
                    who had come to IU from 
                        Chicago
                     in 1961 and stayed on after his graduation to begin graduate work in history. Like
                    other IU conservatives, Tyrrell felt that right-wing voices on campus were either not heard or not
                    taken seriously by the IDS. Sparse coverage of many conservative events prompted
                    some to challenge the paper's selectivity. Left-leaning activists, expressing similar
                    dissatisfaction from the opposite end of the political spectrum, had reacted by forming The Spectator in 1966. In 1967, working from an old house near Ellettsville nicknamed "The
                    Establishment," Tyrrell founded The Alternative-a publication designed to inject
                    some fun into campus politics and to retake the campus from SDS and "return student government to
                    the moderate majority." Tyrrell vowed to critique, in Menckenesque fashion, "the perverse, the
                    brutal, and the slightly goof ball" qualities of the New Left. "Are you tired," he began in the
                    first issue, "are you utterly exhausted by the ineffable politicization of everything in 
                        Bloomington
                     from sex to the delinquencies issuing from some neurotic girl's creative gut? Are your
                    ears, are they fatigued by Radio Free Kirkwood's tedious pledges of forthcoming liberation. … If
                    this sympathy of the absurd has disturbed your slumber welcome to the cloyed audience of The Alternative. For the harshly modulated hokum of IU's pestiferous totalitarians
                    has annoyed us also."22
                
                The startup faced problems that gradually lessened over time. The paper's $300 monthly publication
                    cost meant that sales needed to reach 1,200-1,500 copies simply to break even. With no institutional
                    support to 
                        
                            21 Turner, in IDS, April 11, 1967. Turner, email to author, April 23,
                            2003; Tyrrell interview; IDS, April 6, 11, 15, 1967. For other examples of protest and
                            counter-protest see IDS, February 22, 1968, October 8, 16, 1970, April 27, May 11, 1971;
                            Wynkoop, Dissent in the Heartland, 40-41.
                        
                            22 R. Emmett Tyrrell, Jr., The Conservative Crack-Up (
                                New York
                            , 1992), 21, 44-68; The Alternative, September 1967. Tyrrell
                            interview; IDS, March 2, 1966, February 13, 1969; Schneider, Cadres for
                                Conservatism, 110-16; Byron York, "The Life and Death of The American
                                Spectator," The Atlantic Monthly 288 (November 2001), 91-105. On The
                                Spectator, published in 
                                Bloomington
                             from 1966-1970, see Wynkoop, Dissent in the Heartland,
                            155-63.
                    
                    
                    
                        IU Bake-In, 1965-1966 school year.
                        During the early years of the 
                                North Vietnam
                             War, conservative students peacefully demonstrated their support of American
                            troops.
                        
                            Arbutus, 1966, 219
                     fall back on, The Alternative struggled, but gradually began to receive
                    encouragement and support. The IDS noted that the fledgling paper "has made a
                    definite contribution to the field of student journalism at IU" and praised Tyrrell's staff for
                    their readiness to poke fun at "this sometimes pompous business of journalism." Eventually, the
                    paper received money from the Lilly Foundation, and from the Yale-educated editor of the
                    conservative 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         News, M. Stanton Evans, who became the staff's advisor. Because of its
                    anti-communist views, the paper could also count on the support of many older faculty members who
                    believed in the threat posed by communism and whose brand of patriotism irked their younger
                    colleagues. In time, The Alternative team started a "Beer and Pizza Marching
                    Society," which drew conservative students from around Indiana, including future Vice President Dan
                    Quayle (then a student at DePauw University in 
                        Greencastle
                    ), to 
                        Indianapolis
                     for dinner and drinks. The Alternative eventually provided
                    conservatives with a solid base at IU and allowed them to win monetary support from around the
                    state, thereby enabling them to bring to campus such nationally prominent conservative speakers as
                        National Review editor William F. Buckley, Jr.23
                
                
                    
                        23
                        IDS, January 12, 1968 Tyrrell interview; IDS, December 3,
                        1964, January 11, 12, February 8, October 12, 16, 17, 18, 1968; Tyrrell, The
                            Conservative Crack-Up, 57-58, 64-65, 232-33; Pro-
                
                
                
                    Pro-
                            North Vietnam
                         War demonstration, ca. 1967-1968. Conservative protests escalated with the passage
                        of time. Here, as a police officer looks on, IU students carry a cross painted with the colors
                        of the American flag and signs declaring "Victory in 
                            North Vietnam
                        " and "Bong the Cong."
                    
                        Arbutus, 1968, 52
                
                The creation of The Alternative and The Spectator marked an
                    escalation of both the rhetoric and the actions of campus partisans. After several groups staged a
                    sit-in at Ballantine Hall demanding the creation of an 
                        Schneider, Cadres for Conservatism, 115; Steigerwald, The
                                Sixties and the End of Modern America, 276. In many ways, Buckley served as the
                            ultimate role model for Tyrrell: a student rebel who had gone on to found a successful
                            conservative magazine.
                    
                     African American studies department, conservatives responded by
                    occupying the Well House and calling for the creation of an Irish studies department. After a rash
                    of "pieing" incidents at public events nationally by members of the Left, Tyrrell orchestrated a
                    Right-wing emulation with a farcical twist. "Dr. Rudolph Montag," purportedly a 
                        Columbia
                     University professor, came to visit IU to speak on the "social problem." As a group of
                    one hundred people watched, a member of the wrestling team stood up, yelled "God damn commie," and
                    threw a pie at the visiting "academic." The IU administration discovered the joke only after it
                    tried to apologize to 
                        Columbia
                     officials.24
                
                Public antics and debate occasionally gave way to more serious threats. In 1968, for example, an
                    anti-war protester let off a stink bomb in the vicinity of military recruiters visiting the Indiana
                    Memorial Union. Later, a fire broke out in the military section of the library, an act of vandalism
                    for which no one was ever punished. John Von Kannon and John Baden, conservative graduate students
                    at the time, recall receiving death threats when they refused to take part in the various campus
                    boycotts. Looking back, conservative activists recall feeling frustrated by the university
                    administration's mindset at times, but do not recall feeling persecuted. Theirs was simply an uphill
                        battle.25
                
                Student activists of the 1960s also found a battleground in campus politics. One thing that is often
                    missing in the discussion of the student movement is the "student" part of the equation. Most
                    members of the student body were students first and activists second, if they were activists at all.
                    Students from all points along the political spectrum could agree on, and work together to promote,
                    a number of causes. Indeed, in students’ eyes, campus issues nearly always ranked above the debate
                    over 
                        North Vietnam
                    , despite the more intense media coverage given the war. The same student senate that
                    supported the Bleed-In, for example, supported ending prescribed visiting hours for women. An even
                    greater number of students, it should be noted, abstained from political debate no matter the issue
                    or level. Well into 
                        
                            24 Von Kannon interview; The Alternative,
                            November-December 1967. Later, 
                                Bloomington
                             antiwar activists used a bakery missile on Clark Kerr, the former president of
                            the University of 
                                California
                            , when he spoke at the campus in 1969. Wynkoop, Dissent in the
                                Heartland, 94-96.
                        
                            25 John Baden, email to author, May 14, 2003; Bopp, telephone interview
                            with author, May 7, 2004; Turner, email to author, April 23, 2004; Von Kannon interview; Von
                            Kannon email; IDS, October 11, 17, 1968; Wynkoop, Dissent in
                                the Heartland, 45; Heineman, Campus Wars, 3-5.
                    
                     the 1960s, the vast majority remained apathetic to what was
                    going on in the world around them. They had, it seems, other things to do.26
                
                By the mid-1960s the situation on the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus was beginning to change. Actual campus political parties were emerging-parties
                    intended to last for longer than a single academic year. Each spring students elected a student body
                    president, vice president, and senators to represent them on campus during the following school year
                    and serve as liaison to the university board of trustees and administrators. The dominant parties at
                    IU were Action, whose support lay in the campus Greek system, and Tryus, which garnered its support
                    mostly in the dormitories. Action won the 1964 election, then swept to another victory the following
                    year after Tryus was hit by academic problems. In 1966 Tryus won the presidency, while Action held
                    the senate. And yet, as important as these elections were to participants, they only prompted about
                    one-third of the student body to vote.27
                
                Low voter turnout could be an advantage, however. Left-leaning activists believed that if they could
                    mobilize and extend their base, they could take control of student government. In the spring of
                    1966, campus SDS chairman Guy Loftman organized the Progressive Reform Party (PRP), which drafted a
                    platform calling for more student control of the university. Together with Robin Hunter, a graduate
                    student from 
                        Canada
                     and cofounder of IU's SDS chapter, Loftman was ready to craft a new style of campus
                        politics.28
                
                Campus conservatives did not take the Loftman challenge very seriously at first. Action and Tryus,
                    they reasoned, had similar students'-rights platforms. Turner, who doubted if Loftman could hold his
                    own in the campaign, believed that Loftman was really a proxy candidate for Hunter, whom the
                    conservative found to be both "bright and articulate." When Loftman claimed to have Turner's
                    support, the conservative fired off a letter to the IDS noting that, while he and
                    Loftman saw eye-to-eye on many 
                        
                            26
                            IDS, February 23, 1964, February 22, March 16, April 15, 1966; Wynkoop,
                                Dissent in the Heartland, 22. On the lack of anti-war protest at
                            another Indiana campus see Anthony O. Edmonds and Joel Shrock, "Fighting the War in the
                            Heart of the Country: Anti-War Protest at Ball State University," in Gilbert, ed., The 
                                    North Vietnam
                                 War on Campus, 142-48.
                        
                            27 Bopp, telephone interview with author, May 7, 2004; Helmke interview;
                                IDS, October 1, 9, 1964, February 26, April 9, 1965, April 22, 1966.
                        
                            28
                            IDS, October 5, 1965, March 16, 18, 21, 22, 1967; Wynkoop, Dissent in the Heartland, 23-30. Loftman entered IU as a Republican and joined a
                            fraternity, but after visiting Europe he became a socialist and dedicated himself to New
                            Left causes on the 
                                Bloomington
                             campus. 
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, August 28, 1967.
                    
                    
                    
                        IU Student Senate, 1965-1966.
                        Jim Kittle listens as fellow Senator Guy Loftman, standing, speaks.
                        
                            Arbutus, 1966, 216-17
                     issues, the election of the SDS chairman as student body president would do IU more harm
                    than good. But the Loftman bandwagon was rolling. The SDS leader received the tentative endorsement
                    of the IDS, which argued that student government was losing "good members" and was
                    in need of some shaking up.29
                
                Despite conservative criticism, Loftman won a three-way race by energizing his base and successfully
                    reaching out to the increasing number of students who were moving off campus; Tryus and Action split
                    the remaining votes generated from their usual constituencies. The degree to which Loftman won
                    personal, but not political, support is indicated by the fact that while PRP candidates contested a
                    majority of the thirty-three senate seats they succeeded in capturing only five. Further, with just
                    over 40 percent of students voting in the election, and with fewer than half of all votes cast going
                    to PRP, the IDS cautioned that Loftman was not a majority choice for 
                        
                            29 Turner, emails to author, April 23, May 23, 2003, April 23, 2004;
                            Helmke interview; IDS, March 31, 1965, April 12, 13, October 7, 1967,
                            March 22, 1968.
                    
                     president and would likely find himself caught between the
                    interests of his party and those of the student body.30
                
                Loftman's victory was part of a wider trend of New Left campus government electoral conquests at Big
                    10 schools, including Northwestern, 
                        Michigan, Michigan
                     State, and 
                        Wisconsin
                    . According to the IDS, moderates held office in 
                        Illinois, Ohio
                     State, and 
                        Minnesota
                    , with Right or CenterRight parties in control of only Purdue and 
                        Iowa
                    . Yet this was also a fractious time for the Left and for SDS in particular. Nationally,
                    the group was increasingly torn between those pushing for a more aggressive stance against the war
                    and those who continued to debate ideological issues of socialism and anarchy. The group's
                    subsequent campaign to remove the ROTC from the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus met with resistance from university chancellor Herman B Wells, as well as from
                    numerous letter-writers to the IDS. And while Loftman argued that he was ready to
                    work with the senate, the SDS asserted that it controlled the PRP's legislative agenda.31
                
                
                    The Alternative quickly seized on the PRP's ties to more radical groups like SDS.
                    The paper charged Loftman with acting on the belief that "student government should DO something for
                    the students-whether the students like it or not." "Who," asked Tyrrell and his colleagues, "came to
                    be governed? Did not some come to gain education?" Loftman's opponents grew increasingly harsh in
                    the year to come. The Alternative called him "the pink eyed man of destiny," and
                    once remarked that "we did not make guy loftman the butt of ridicule, God did, and as we are but the
                    humble servants of the Lord we must remark on him and the pile of animated garbage festering around
                    him." John Gait accused Loftman of suffering from a "multiple personality disorder," maintaining
                    that the student body president assumed the mantle of leadership only when it served his purposes,
                    that he utilized his title to garner attention while pretending not to, and that he claimed to be a
                    man of the people while constantly seeking more power for himself.32
                
                Loftman tried to steer a middle-Left course amidst this partisanship. He made a point of establishing
                    his disapproval of the campus drug culture and stressed his focus on giving students more control
                    "over the decisions which affect their lives," such as rules governing women's hours. Loftman, 
                        
                            30 Bopp, telephone interview with author, May 7, 2004; Helmke interview;
                                IDS, April 14, 15, 1967; Arbutus, 75 (1968), 58-59.
                        
                            31
                            IDS, April 20, 25, May 10, 1967, January 4, October 4, 29, 31, November 1,
                            1968, September 29, October 2, 15, 1970; Wynkoop, Dissent in the
                            Heartland, 30-31, 69-70.
                        
                            32
                            The Alternative, September 1967, October-November 1967, January-February
                            1968, April-May 1968; Galt in IDS, September 20, 1967.
                    
                     who hoped to use the quiet summer session to begin implementing
                    his program, quickly found himself facing a roadblock in the person of Rock Winchell. Winchell, a
                    senior from 
                        Jasper
                    , fought against the seating of PRP senators who were not actually enrolled for the
                    summer session. His opposition forced a campus referendum, which he won, much to the dismay of
                    Loftman. (Demonstrating that student apathy hardly took the summer off, less than one out of every
                    twelve students on campus bothered to vote in the summer of 1967).33
                
                Loftman also spent the summer trying to gain a greater understanding of the university's finances.
                    Based on his study, he decided to take aim at one particular proposed expenditure: the construction
                    of a new basketball arena, to be named Assembly Hall. Despite support from the IU administration,
                    the Student Athletic Board, and the IDS, Loftman questioned the wisdom of asking
                    students to pay for a facility that many would never use. In a series of open forums across campus,
                    Winchell and YAF member James Bopp, Jr., began debating Loftman, arguing that a "well rounded
                    atmosphere" was essential to the university experience and that an institution like IU would always
                    have facilities or departments that not every student would use. Mark Watson (the president of IU
                    YAF) and other Loftman opponents also bombarded the IDS with letters in support of
                    the project. Today, Bopp recalls the university's decision to proceed with the project as a serious
                    blow to Loftman's presidency.34
                
                Campus conservatives worked to make sure that SDS would not be able to repeat its success with PRP in
                    the 1968 elections. Supported by other members of student government, including Jim Durkott and Gary
                    Kovener, Winchell merged the two older parties into a new one, Impact. The leaders of the new party
                    appointed floor and dorm captains and instituted a membership fee, ensuring the party plenty of
                    money to use on campus.35 Hunter and Loftman minced few words in their critique
                    of the new party. The student body president, perhaps smarting from his Assembly Hall defeat,
                    claimed that Impact had no basis for being and-unlike the PRP-no goals of its own. In the same
                    speech he also took the opportunity to blast women 
                        
                            33
                            
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, August 28, 1967. 
                                
                                    Bloomington
                                 Herald-Telephone, April 20, 1967; IDS, July 7, 13,
                            14, 20, 22, 25, 27, 28, August 3, 1967.
                        
                            34 Bopp, telephone interviews with author, May 9, 2003, May 7, 2004. IDS, July 18, 21, August 1, September 12, 13, 16, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,
                            1967; 
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, August 28, 1967.
                        
                            35 Bopp, telephone interview with author, May 9, 2003; Von Kannon
                            interview; IDS, September 23, 26, 27, 28, 1967. Impact has been
                            contrastingly characterized as both a "student conservative party" and as an apolitical
                            student party. Schneider, Cadres for Conservatism, 115; Wynkoop, Dissent in the Heartland, 61.
                    
                    
                    
                        Student body president Ted Najam, center, and vice president Paul Helmke, right. After SDS
                            chairman Guy Loftman won the student body presidency in 1967, YAF leaders allied with
                            student government leaders to nominate Najam and Helmke the following year.
                        
                            Arbutus, 1969, 228
                    
                     for not working harder to end parietals and to criticize the
                    student body in general for not supporting his policies. Loftman, who tried to interest students in
                    campus governance, had discovered the very real lesson that winning an election did not guarantee
                    the success of a party's agenda once in power.36
                
                In the meantime, 600 delegates waged a "chaotic" battle over nominations at Impact's first
                    convention, ultimately settling on two Greek candidates-Alpha Tau Omega's Ted Najam and Phi Kappa
                    Psi's Paul Helmke-as the party's ticket for student body president and vice president, respectively.
                    Neither Najam nor Helmke belonged to YAF or to Tyrrell's circle. Najam in particular was no
                    conservative, and Tyrrell and other members of the Right watched as he drifted further and further
                    left in the months to come, while the IDS later commented that he seemed "to have
                    taken on in some part the ideology of PRP." But this was campus politics, and the Right's goal was
                    to beat SDS, not to run an ideologue of its own.37
                
                In the campaign that followed, PRP was outmatched at every step. Impact's coffers were so full that
                    it could afford to take out one advertisement after another in the IDS. The
                    Right's proxy party focused on the lifestyle differences between their candidates and the "hippies"
                    of PRP. Impact officials said they planned to spend about $800 on the campaign, while PRP had barely
                    a quarter of that sum at its disposal. On election night, Impact garnered 4,666 votes to PRP's
                    3,703. The IDS credited Impact "image" versus PRP's, as well as a strong town
                    vote, for its victory.38
                
                The victory would not last long. Over the next year the more conservative Bopp challenged Najam and
                    Helmke for being too liberal. Helmke invited Bopp to run with him in 1969, but the YAF member chose
                    instead to run against him. Helmke then opted to leave the party and run as an independent, taking
                    with him a good chunk of Impact's base. Helmke told the IDS that he had grown
                    tired of the dealmaking and compromising of party politics, and that he believed that the majority
                    of the student body preferred a more centrist candidate. It was up to Bopp to try to hold Impact
                    together; he even went door-to-door to drum up support. Despite this effort, the 
                        
                            36
                            IDS, September 26, 30, 1967, February 16, 1968.
                        
                            37
                            IDS, October 3, 1968. Helmke interview; Tyrrell interview; IDS, March 5, 9, 20, 21, April 2, October 3, 1968; Arbutus, 76
                            (1969), 80-81; Wynkoop, Dissent in the Heartland, 64-67. Loftman supported
                            the PRP nomination of Mark Oring, who hinted that if elected he might shut down student
                            government in order to force a showdown with the administration. IDS,
                            March 14, 15, 1968.
                        
                            38
                            IDS, April 3, 4, 5, 1968; Bopp, telephone interview with author, May 7,
                            2004; Helmke interview.
                    
                     turnout at the 1969 convention was much smaller than the year
                    before, and the morale of the party was low.39 While Tyrrell viewed Helmke as
                    having drifted leftward, Helmke's tactics and stands on the issues were not far from Bopp's.
                    Meanwhile, the left, too, had splintered, with Loftman throwing his support behind Mel Yancey of the
                    United Student Movement rather than Russell Block of the Revolutionary Students Party. As far as the
                    campus was concerned, Helmke had successfully positioned himself firmly in the Center. The IDS endorsed him, as did Najam on the eve of the election. Helmke emerged the
                    clear winner, taking 4,288 votes to Yancey's 2,090. Bopp finished third with 1,516; Impact was
                    finished as a party.40
                
                Helmke wanted to use his time as president to seek change without tearing the campus apart. To do so,
                    he willingly borrowed tactics from both the Left and the Right. In the wake of widespread worries
                    over rising student fees, he organized public meetings and even urged students to boycott classes so
                    they could go home and tell their parents about the problem. In Helmke's own subsequent assessment,
                    such "coat and tie" activism proved largely successful. Others agreed. The IDS
                    credited Najam's success, as well as Helmke's, to Loftman's radicalism. As mainstream student
                    leaders, they had proven able to exact reforms from an IU administration apprehensive about the
                    prospect of more Loftmans in its future. Later, looking back on his time in office, Najam would
                    credit his and Helmke's victories to the idealism and "activism" of the period-characteristics that,
                    as the 1970s dawned, would diminish considerably.41
                
                And yet two years of centrist campus government did little to halt the renewed divisiveness reflected
                    in the 1970 victory of Keith Parker. A field lieutenant of the Black Panthers, Parker told the IDS that he believed the world to be divided between "reactionary Pigs" and
                    "progressive People," with only a small minority unaffiliated in the center. When asked specifically
                    about right-wing activists, Parker said that he hoped to sponsor an education weekend that would
                    "expose all their fascist tactics." Despite such rhetoric, only 20 percent of students voted,
                    suggesting that student apathy remained strong.42
                
                However, within weeks of his election Parker announced his plans to visit Hanoi, via Moscow, on a
                    student peace mission-a proposal that 
                        
                            39 Bopp, telephone interview with author, May 9, 2003; Helmke interview;
                            Tyrrell interview; IDS, March 20, 21, 22, 26, 27, April 8, 9, 1969, March
                            6, 1970.
                        
                            40 Helmke interview; IDS, October 10, 1968, April 15,
                            16, 17, 19, 1969.
                        
                            41 Helmke interview; IDS, April 15, 1969, April 10,
                            1972.
                        
                            42
                            IDS, October 1, 28, 1970; The Alternative, May-June
                            1970; Tyrrell interview. For Wynkoop's account of Parker's presidency see
                                Dissent in the Heartland, 102-108.
                    
                     brought conservative criticism from campus to the state house.
                    Though the student senate was unable or unwilling to condemn the trip, the IDS
                    editorial board called Parker "selfish" for putting his own interests above those of the university.
                    State Senator (and future governor) Robert Orr not only condemned the trip but also asked 1U
                    students how they could have elected Parker president in the first place. Several members of the
                    Indiana General Assembly spoke of raising IU tuition as a measure both to punish, and to reexert
                    control over, the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus. In sum, Parker's trip did little to enhance the campus's reputation among a
                    cohort of Indiana politicians who already tended to group any call for students’ rights together
                    with antiwar protest into evidence of an "ominous Left" that threatened America's very existence.43
                
                The controversial student body president attempted damage control, speaking to IU students and the 
                        Bloomington
                     press upon his return. However, letters to the IDS largely ridiculed
                    the trip, asking why Parker spent so much time working on a non-binding peace treaty between
                    American and North Vietnamese students when real issues awaited his attention back in 
                        Bloomington
                    . Parker responded that the war did affect students; to argue that his trip was the sole
                    cause of the legislature's threatened tuition increase was, he contended, to ignore the economic
                    troubles in which the state was already enmired.44
                
                The trip controversy proved a boon to the campus Right. Von Kannon exposed the money trail that had
                    funded Parker's trip, tracing it to the national Black Panther Party and surmising that Parker had
                    actually acted as the Party's representative to Hanoi, not simply as a concerned American college
                    student. The funding for the trip had come, more specifically, from 
                        Brown
                     County resident Larry 
                        Canada
                    , who owned the lot on Kirkwood Avenue that had once been the site of the Black Market
                    and the Panther Party's local headquarters.45
                
                Fearful of state intervention, the Board of Trustees moved to rein in student government, voting to
                    end the mandatory $.50 student government fee. In the ensuing debate, Parker shifted discussion from
                    the scandal around his trip towards the trustees’ attack on student government, leaving 
                        
                            43
                            IDS, November 17, 18, 20, December 1, 2, 4, 7, 8, 9, 18, 1970; Helmke
                            interview; Wynkoop, Dissent in the Heartland, 79.
                        
                            44
                            IDS, January 5, 6, 7, 13, 1971; 
                                
                                    Bloomington
                                 Herald-Telephone, January 6, 7, 1971.
                        
                            45
                            IDS, December 11, 1970. The Black Market was firebombed on December 26,
                            1968, allegedly by the local Ku Klux Klan, and the space is now home to People's Park.
                            Wynkoop, Dissent in the Heartland, 128-31, 168-70, 176-78. 
                                Canada
                             had drawn attention previously by taking out a full page in the IDS for an "Appeal to Reason" on 
                                North Vietnam
                            , which was blasted by the IDS, September 20, 23, 1967.
                    
                     his opponents perplexed. Von Kannon rejoiced at the lifting of
                    the tax, but in his IDS column, he also pointed out that the trustees’ decision to
                    revoke the fee had taken Parker off the hook for his 
                        North Vietnam
                     trip.46
                
                When Parker's term came to an end, the editors of the IDS found little benefit in
                    his time in office. While crediting him with establishing a student legal service, the paper
                    believed that Parker's polarizing presidency had done more harm than good to IU. To his claim to
                    having given future presidents an "alternative" path to follow in office, the IDS
                    reported that Parker had only reduced the power of student government by antagonizing state
                    lawmakers, IU administrators, and a good number of students.47
                
                To Von Kannon, Parker's departure signaled the end of fun in campus politics. The frontrunners in the
                    1971 student elections were, as he pointed out, individuals with a long interest in politics, not
                    the amorphous "people" whom Parker had claimed as his power base. All told, there were fourteen
                    presidential tickets; and with only 25 percent of the campus voting, the election required a run-off
                    election that was itself a mess of legal maneuvering, including the elimination and reinstatement of
                    several tickets. The eventual winner was Mary Scifres, the first woman to be elected to the position
                    in the university's history, who promised to make student government more open to the student
                        body.48
                
                Scifres maintained a liberal platform but managed to do so in a manner that seemed, to conservatives
                    like Von Kannon, less confrontational than Parker's. The student body president would advocate
                    student support of such causes as Ralph Nader's Public Interest Research Group, the (now voluntary)
                    student government fee, activist Angela Davis's legal defense fund, and abortion rights. Scifres
                    presented her viewpoint in an IDS column that was more informational than
                    directive in tone. Von Kannon, the most public conservative on campus, sometimes used his own IDS column to debate Scifres's stance on abortion, the war, and other issues. As
                    the journalistic sparring between the two suggests, sharp divisions remained between Right and Left,
                    but both sides had come to realize how little student government could, in fact, accomplish in one
                    year. By the mid-1970s, the IDS found "little evidence of IU's recent turmoil,"
                    and campus elections drew less of the attention they had attracted in earlier years.49
                
                
                    
                        46
                        IDS, February 4, 9, 16, 1971.
                    
                        47
                        IDS, May 28, 1971.
                    
                        48
                        IDS, February 18, 26, May 13, 1971. See also ibid., April 24, May 5, 12, 15,
                        19, 20, 26, 1971.
                    
                        49
                        IDS, April 10, 1972. See also ibid., October 14, 21, November 11, 19, 30,
                        1971, February 7, 14, April 13, 19, 1972; Wlady Pleszczynski, email to author, April 30,
                    2003.
                
                
                If campus politics was a game, it was still a game that could prepare a person for serious work.
                    Richard Nixon's election in 1968 provided conservative campus activists with an opportunity to take
                    their cause from the campus to the halls of power. One of the first to make the transition from
                    student activist to political operative was Tom Huston. After graduating from IU's law school
                    (1966), he served first as an Army officer attached to the Defense Intelligence Agency (1967-1969)
                    and then as an associate counsel to President Nixon during a period that saw escalating violence at 
                        Kent
                     State, Jackson State, and other college campuses. Nixon responded to the threat by
                    asking Congress for 1,000 additional FBI agents to provide "instant action" in the case of campus
                    turmoil. Huston, from his background as a local, state, and national YAF leader, agreed that "the
                    campus is the battleground of the revolutionary movement." Believing further that groups such as the
                    Black Panthers and the Weathermen (the anarchist spinoff group of SDS), working on-campus and off,
                    were plotting to overthrow the federal government, the president called upon Huston to draft a
                    scheme for domestic intelligence gathering.50
                
                The former student activist urged Nixon to utilize YAF to confront campus radicals, but the president
                    was reluctant to do so, perhaps because of his own misgivings about the conservative movement.51 Ultimately, Huston's proposal-now known as the Huston Plan-called on the
                    White House to centralize all domestic intelligence gathering into a new agency and to authorize the
                    use of wiretaps and other forms of surveillance of suspected subversive groups. To those who
                    contended that the plan infringed on civil liberties, Huston argued that bugging a group to prevent
                    a terrorist act was hardly the same thing as beating a confession out of an innocent person. Nor was
                    he alone in his zeal. In a syndicated column that appeared in the IDS, Barry
                    Goldwater had likewise argued that enforcing law and order should not be construed as a repression
                    of civil liberties. Nevertheless, it was fierce opposition from FBI director J. Edgar Hoover (who
                    opposed centralization), rather than from civil rights advocates within the Nixon White House, that
                    eventually defeated the proposal.52
                
                
                    
                        50 Huston, in 
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, June 3, September 23, 1973. For example, at a teach-in at IU in
                        1970, students were told that it was up to them to "stop the government" if the government would
                        not stop the war in 
                            North Vietnam
                        . IDS, October 27, 1970.
                    
                        51 Schneider, Cadres for Conservatism, 121, 149.
                    
                        52
                        IDS, April 12, 1966, October 7, 9, November 5, 1970; 
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, June 1, 1966, June 3, 1973. On the Huston Plan see Stephen E.
                        Ambrose, Nixon: The Triumph of a Politician, 1962-1972 (
                            New York
                        , 1989), 264-65, 362, 367-69; 
                            Greene
                        , Limits of Power, 133; Joan Hoff, Nixon
                        Reconsidered (
                            New York
                        , 1994), 20, 228, 277, 283-93; Steigerwald, The Sixties and the End
                        of
                    
                
                
                Other veterans of the IU Right influenced the evolution of national conservative politics from the
                    Nixon era through the Reagan revolution of the 1980s.53 By 1974, Nixon's last
                    year in office, R. Emmett Tyrrell's Alternative had grown into a regional, campus
                    equivalent to Buckley's National Review. That year Tyrrell borrowed from his
                    campus competitors and renamed his publication The Spectator, a decade later,
                    feeling that the conservative moment had arrived, he moved his operation (now The
                        American Spectator) to 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. From his place in the nation's capitol Tyrrell challenged the Clinton
                    administration during the 1990s by highlighting the president's financial scandals and extra-marital
                    affairs. Phil Crane, organizer of IU's Conservative League, also contributed to the Republican
                    ascendancy. Originally elected to fill the congressional seat vacated by Donald Rumsfeld when
                    Rumsfeld signed on as an economic adviser to President Nixon, Crane served the 
                        Illinois
                     8th District from 1969 until his defeat in 2004.
                Other former student activists, such as John Baden and John Von Kannon, entered the conservative
                    foundations and think tanks that, in the words of one conservative commentator, "helped to transform
                    the terms of political debate" in the 1980s. Jim Kittle became a successful businessman and now
                    leads the Indiana Republican Party. Robert Turner is now a law professor at the University of 
                        Virginia
                    , and James Bopp and Tom Huston practice law in 
                        Terre Haute and Indianapolis
                    , respectively. The moderates who allied themselves to the Right also made marks on the
                    political scene: Ted Najam rose from circuit judge to the Indiana Court of Appeals, while Paul
                    Helmke went home to Fort 
                        Wayne
                     and served the city as its mayor.54
                
                
                    
                        Modern America, 292-93; Ted Morgan, Reds: McCarthyism in
                            Twentieth-Century America (
                            New York
                        , 2003), 586-94. Huston told the Star that he believed that
                        Nixon's refusal to stand up to Hoover and implement the plan helped lead to the formation of the
                        Plumbers and to Watergate. That the Huston Plan became public knowledge at the height of
                        Watergate did not help Huston's case or Nixon's reputation. Huston's complete testimony before
                        Congress about the Plan can be found at http://www.aarclibrary.
                        org/publib/church/reports/vol2/html/ChurchV2_0001a. htm.
                    
                        53 That Reagan cultivated a closer relationship with the campus Right than
                        did Nixon and Goldwater may help explain the increased prominence of former campus activists in
                        the 1980s. Lou Cannon, Governor Reagan: His Rise to Power (
                            New York
                        , 2003), 271-96. YAF members commonly date their relationship with Reagan to a
                        letter he wrote to YAF national chairman Ron Docksai requesting YAF support for Nixon's 1972
                        reelection campaign. Kiron K. Skinner, Annelise Anderson, and Martin Anderson, eds., Reagan: A Life in Letters (
                            New York
                        , 2003), 174-175.
                    
                        54 Gregg Easterbrook, "Ideas Move Nations: How Conservative Think Tanks Have
                        Helped to Transform the Terms of Political Debate," The Atlantic Monthly 257
                        (January 1986), 66-80. Baden is founder and chairman of the Foundation for Research on Economics
                        and the Environment in Bozeman, 
                            Montana
                        ; Von Kannon is vice president and treasurer of the Heritage Foundation in 
                            Washington
                        , D. C.
                
                
                Looking back on their time in 
                        Bloomington
                    , these one-time student activists argue that as New Deal-era liberalism collapsed, as
                    the old consensus establishment gave way and the New Left fell apart, they stepped in to fill the
                    breach. While SDS activists had questioned what it meant to be an American, YAF members had prepared
                    their agenda to be implemented via the political process. With other leaders of the New Right, they
                    learned their lessons during the Goldwater campaign, captured the Republican Party, implemented
                    their ideas under Nixon and Reagan, and have now helped to define American politics for forty
                        years.55 In government, in political discourse, and in academia, the
                    conservatives who came of age at IU in the 1960s have left their mark on the state and nation.
                
                    
                        55 Pleszczynski email; Tyrrell interview; Von Kannon interview; The Alternative, May-June 1970; Steigerwald, The Sixties and the End of
                            Modern America, 5; Mary C. Brennan, Turning Right in the Sixties: The
                            Conservative Capture of the GOP (
                            Chapel Hill
                        , N. C., 1995); Schneider, Cadres for Conservatism, 1, 161-82;
                        Cavallo, A Fiction of the Past, 60, 216; York, "The Life and Death of The American Spectator." Gitlin concluded that he and his fellow New Left
                        activists largely failed to keep their part of the student activist movement going beyond the
                        1960s. Gitlin, The Sixties, 434-36; Gitlin, The Whole World is
                            Watching: Mass Media in the Making & Unmaking of the New Left (
                            Los Angeles
                        , 1980).
                
            
            
            
                REVIEWS
                
                    Bayonets in the Wilderness Anthony 
                            Wayne
                        's Legion in the Old Northwest, By Alan D. Gaff, (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 2004. Pp. xix, 419. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $39.95.)
                Alan D. Gaff wrote this book to give complete coverage to Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    's conduct of the Indian War in the Old Northwest from 1792 to 1795. Having previously
                    written on the Iron Brigade and co-edited John Gibbon's chronicle of his experiences as a soldier
                    and scout on the Western frontier in the 1870s, Gaff is qualified to undertake this study. He
                    correctly notes that despite the many biographies of 
                        Wayne
                     and surveys of the war that have been published, no complete history of this part of
                    America's military past has been written. In his exhaustive treatment, he analyzes the role of 
                        Wayne
                     and his Legion army in bringing the Old Northwest more thoroughly under the control of
                    the 
                        United States
                     by defeating an impressive Indian confederacy and thwarting British intentions in that
                    part of the world.
                Gaff's scholarship is impressive. Incorporating the viewpoints of practically everyone who left
                    official or personal records of participation, he quotes his sources accurately, appropriately, and
                    without distortion. He has done an astounding amount of research and seems to have included all
                    relevant primary, and most secondary, works. Gaff writes well, relating colorful but appropriate
                    accounts, particularly in his introduction and conclusion, and providing many interesting anecdotes
                    and personal vignettes. At the same time, he is careful not to sacrifice accuracy and organization
                    for style. His work is satisfying both as scholarship and as a rousing good story that will appeal
                    to the scholar and to the general reader.  Indiana readers will
                    particularly appreciate Gaff's account because so much of the book's action took place just to the
                    east in 
                        Ohio
                     and profoundly affected their history. Particularly germane is the story of 
                        Wayne
                    's establishment of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in what is now northeastern Indiana.
                For all its strengths, Gaff's book could have been improved by a few minor additions. He should have
                    mentioned the impact of the Jay Treaty negotiations of 1794 and included the inflammatory remarks of
                    Canadian Governor Sir Guy Carleton, Baron Dorchester, made in 1794, that America and Britain would
                    be at war before the end of the year. He might have begun his narrative with the defeat of Colonel
                    Josiah Harmar's army by the Northwest Indians in 1790, rather than with Major General Arthur St.
                    Clair's expedition a year later. Finally, Gaff could have examined John Sugden's biography of
                    Bluejacket and Harvey Lewis Carter's life-and-times study of Little Turtle. Despite these quibbles,
                    this book will deservedly remain the standard work on the subject because of its many virtues.
                PAUL DAVID NELSON is Julian-Van Dusen Professor of American History at 
                        Berea
                     College, 
                        Kentucky
                    . He is the author of Anthony 
                            Wayne
                        : Soldier of the Early Republic (1985) and General Sir Guy
                        Carleton, Lord Dorchester: Soldier-Statesman of Early British 
                            Canada
                        
                     (2000).
            
            
                
                    Carole Lombard The Hoosier Tornado, By Wes D. Gehring, (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press. Pp. xix. 264. Illustrations, filmography, notes,
                    selected bibliography. $19.95.)
                Although Carole Lombard died at age thirty-three in 1942, her personal and professional impact on
                    Hollywood certainly warrants a new biography (most date from the 1970s). Drawing on a wide variety
                    of sources-interviews, articles, prior biographies, movie reviews, and the films themselves-Wes D.
                    Gehring's book not only positions Lombard in relation to the screwball comedy genre she helped
                    define, but also shows the scope of her career, which began in the early 1920s and ranged from
                    silent slapstick comedies to classical Hollywood dramas.
                As the book's subtitle suggests, Gehring's study pays considerable attention to Lombard's early
                    childhood in Indiana and her subsequent connections to the state. In addition to using prominent
                    newspaper sources, Gehring fleshes out his study by digging into Indiana newspaper articles on the
                    "Hoosier Tornado." He begins with Lombard's death in the  plane
                    crash that followed her extremely successful war bond rally in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , rendering this familiar incident in moving rather than maudlin terms, and successfully
                    setting the stage for a consideration of Lombard's film career, personal life, and engaging
                    personality.
                Lombard's brief life was full of fascinating incidents. Fortunately, Gehring resists the urge to use
                    these events for mere titillation, providing instead a nuanced biography. Although he sometimes
                    indulges in excessive "what if" scenarios (e.g., what if Chaplin had hired Lombard when she
                    auditioned for The Gold Rush?), Gehring generally sticks to informed comments. He
                    convincingly argues that her silent comedy work for Mack Sennett, who emphasized spontaneity and
                    improvisation, provided an important foundation for her later work in screwball comedy. Gehring
                    suggests that after a car wreck left Lombard with a potentially career-ending scar on her cheek, she
                    renewed her dedication to her career and learned a great deal about lighting and cinematography in
                    order to disguise the blemish.
                Several love affairs-including one with George Raft, and Lombard's brief marriage to William
                    Powell-are examined, with an emphasis on her tendency to adapt to the interests of her lovers, as
                    when she developed an affinity for literature in Powell's company. Gehring appropriately connects
                    these relationships to her career, explaining, for example, that well after their amicable divorce
                    Powell insisted Lombard be cast opposite him in her most well-known screwball comedy, My Man Godfrey (La Cava, 1936). Her career came first until her relationship with Clark
                    Gable, when she attempted to take projects that would coincide with his schedule and also took up
                    his hobbies, hunting and fishing.
                Although such comments about Lombard's adaptability might suggest a submissive person, it is clear
                    that she was opinionated, outspoken, and determined. Gehring foregrounds her lively, free-spirited
                    personality, relating it to her screwball comedy persona without conflating the two. Hardly the
                    familiar story of a Hollywood beauty unknowingly exploited, Gehring demonstrates Lombard's
                    take-charge attitude about her own movie career and credits her mother, an Indiana native with a
                    strong interest in women's rights (as well as numerology, spiritualism, and the Baha'i faith), with
                    instilling an independent spirit in Carole. Going against societal norms, Carole requested that her
                    older brothers teach her to swear so she could fend off unwanted male admirers. Rough language
                    spilled over into her everyday speech (as the outtakes on the wonderfully restored Criterion edition
                    of My Man Godfrey attest), earning her another nickname: "the profane angel."
                    Lombard was wellknown as a wise-cracking wit in real life, and Gehring's book provides numerous
                    colorful quotes, most of which are (in the parlance of the times) too blue to be reprinted here.
                
                
                    Carole Lombard: The Hoosier Tornado makes for a pleasant read and is also
                    academically informed and well documented. Gehring creates an engaging image of Lombard as a person
                    and as a star whose life and films merit the kind of careful attention his book provides.
                KATRINA G. BOYD teaches film courses at Indiana University 
                        Bloomington
                     and is working on a book examining the intersection of Utopian thought and
                    entertainment in science fiction.
            
            
                
                    Wings of Their Dreams Purdue in Flight, By John Norberg, (West 
                        Lafayette
                    : Purdue University Press, 2003. Pp. xviii, 433. Illustrations, notes, index. $29.95.)
                The history of American aviation is laced with famous names and numerous firsts. But it is unlikely
                    that the typical student of airflight history is familiar with the names James Turpin (an early
                    airshow flyer for the Wright brothers), Trudy Johnson (one of the first women to fly a Wright-built
                    aircraft), Fredrick Martin (commander of the first around-the-world crew), or Charles McAllister
                    (the first man to mid-air crash into Charles Lindbergh). What do these early aviation pioneers have
                    in common? Each one either studied at, worked for, or married a graduate of Purdue University.
                While this may seem too narrow a theme for a book-most of the names are obscure until we reach the
                    space age with Purdue graduates such as Virgil "Gus" Grissom, Neil Armstrong, and Eugene Cernan-the
                    book, in fact, serves a dual role for the average reader. First, it tells the story of the people
                    involved in the nuts-and-bolts of aviation, the almost-famous flyers, those who built the
                    infrastructure of modern aviation, selected by their almost random association with Purdue. While
                    the author emphasizes Purdue's recognized strength in the field of aeronautical engineering
                    (clearly, one of the book's goals is to serve as a recruiting document), the idiosyncratic nature of
                    the cast of Purdue aviators provides a revealing look at the "ordinary" side of American aviation.
                    For example, Turpin might have claimed many aviation firsts but quit flying after an air show crash.
                    Trudy Johnson, the wife of early test pilot Jimmie Johnson, might have been the first Amelia Earhart
                    figure, but quit flying for fear of her children losing their mother. Martin was selected to command
                    a team of four planes to attempt to be the first to fly around the world, but he crashed his plane
                    on the first leg over Alaska and the team completed the textbook journey without him.
                
                This book also tells the story of the twentieth-century contributions of land-grant colleges to the
                    research and economic development of aviation. Caltech and MIT claim a high percentage of Nobel
                    Prize winners, but public schools, such as Purdue, have been responsible for educating and training
                    a significant fraction of the people who would go on to assemble and maintain the technological
                    steamroller of aviation in this country. Purdue was the first university to construct its own
                    airfield, to hire a female professor of aeronautical engineering (Amelia Earhart), and to equip her
                    with the finest research aircraft of the time (which, unfortunately, she piloted to her death in the
                    South Pacific). Purdue was also one of the first colleges to own an airline-one of its four jets was
                    the infamous Playboy plane of the 1960s (apparently Earhart's feminist message did not sink in).
                There are several deficiencies in the book's presentation. For example, early in the book the author
                    notes that "every breakthrough in aviation and space would be captured on film" (p. 8), however, the
                    book displays only a few pages of images to accompany its rich descriptive text. The experienced
                    reader is probably aware of the look of early aircraft, but the novice reader (at whom the book
                    appears to aim) would benefit from some visual images of the early days of aviation. Overall,
                    however, the book is an excellent read and wellresearched. While the accolades to Purdue wear thin
                    after a few chapters, the reader does sense the "can-do" attitude that infected many of these
                    Midwestern aviation pioneers.
                JAMES SCHOMBERT is associate professor of physics at the University of 
                        Oregon
                    , Eugene, where he teaches a course on space flight and aviation.
            
            
                
                    Facing East from Indian Country A Native History of Early America, By Daniel K.
                    Richter, (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 2001. Pp. x, 317. Illustrations, maps, notes, index, $26.00.)
                Because Daniel K. Richter's Ordeal of the Longhouse (1991) remains a standard in
                    the field, scholars in frontier and American Indian history greatly anticipated this follow-up
                    monograph. To be sure, Richter does many things equally well in this newer book, bringing in
                    environmental, cultural, medical, religious, economic, and agricultural history as well as
                    linguistics, anthropology, and archaeology. Focusing on cis-
                        Mississippi
                    - and on cis-Appalachia-America, Facing East begins in A.D. 1002 and
                    ends in 
                    
                        Boston
                     in 1836. Richter considers how the Indians viewed their lives, cultures, religions, and
                    societies prior to European contact. He establishes the Indian understanding of the world and then
                    gradually brings in the European (and sometimes African) cultures, ethnicities, religions, and
                    personalities.
                By alternating between a native voice and an objective voice, the author demonstrates how one culture
                    and people encountered and shaped another. Richter writes well-even hauntingly-from the Indian
                    perspective. He expertly interweaves the impersonal and personal, the metaand the micro-histories.
                    Indeed, Richter is a very good storyteller and whether he writes of Pocahontas ("mischievous girl"),
                    the Blessed Kateri Tekakwitha ("The Lily of the Mohawks"), or William Apess, each figure becomes not
                    only a well-realized person but also a key figure in North American history.
                My only criticism of the book comes from Richter's seeming inability to give serious credence to
                    European cultures, religions, and ideas when he writes in a more objective voice. At his weakest
                    moments-and, admittedly, they are very few and far between-Richter focuses so much on the Indian
                    point of view that the book reads as a simple morality tale: Indians happy and noble, Europeans dour
                    and exploitative. This is true in his discussions of both the Roman Catholic theology of sainthood
                    and traditions, and of the results of American republican thought in the founding period.
                Richter is, of course, writing mainly about American Indians, with issues such as republican theory
                    on the periphery. But what is said at the fringes can be revealing. For example, in dealing with
                    Apess's history of America, Richter writes: "Apess remained silent on the racial beliefs and
                    practices of the slaveowning 
                        Washington
                    " (p. 248). To dismiss Apess for this silence is to discount 
                        Washington
                    's importance in the eventual destruction of the institution of slavery. Such dismissals
                    do Richter's otherwise fine scholarship a disservice.
                Regardless of this criticism, Richter's is a brilliant work of American, Indian, and frontier
                    history, dovetailing nicely with the pathbreaking Indian history works of Bernard Sheehan, David
                    Edmunds, Susan Sleeper-Smith, and Richard White. While perhaps not as profound as Ordeal of the Longhouse, it has much to offer and will remain a significant work for some
                    time to come.
                BRADLEY J. BIRZER is associate professor of history and Russell Amos Kirk Chair at Hillsdale
                    College, Hillsdale, 
                        Michigan
                    .
            
            
            
                
                    Jefferson and 
                            Monroe
                         Constant Friendship and Respect, By Noble E. Cunningham, Jr., (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 2003. Pp. 80. Illustrations, notes, bibliographic note, index. Paperbound,
                    $12.95.)
                The friendship between Thomas Jefferson and James 
                        Madison
                     has received much scholarly attention, but each man's collaborations with other
                    Founders have been largely overlooked. Noble E. Cunningham, Jr., emeritus professor of history at
                    the University of 
                        Missouri
                    -
                        Columbia
                    , explores Jefferson's association with James 
                        Monroe
                     as part of the 
                        Monticello
                     Monograph Series, a collection of short works on various aspects of Jefferson's life
                    and legacy.
                Not a dual biography, Jefferson and 
                            Monroe
                        
                     concentrates on the many points at which the two statesmen crossed paths. According to
                    Cunningham, after starting out as mentor and protege, these Founders developed an equal partnership
                    characterized, as Jefferson put it, by "constant friendship and respect" (p. 42). After reading law
                    with Jefferson, 
                        Monroe
                    , at age twenty-two, accepted an assignment from his tutor (who was also 
                        Virginia
                    's governor) to scout the movements of British forces in 
                        North Carolina
                    . In 1783, both men were delegates to the Confederation Congress in 
                        Annapolis
                    , where they shared lodgings and developed a close bond. At Jefferson's urging, 
                        Monroe
                     acquired land in Albemarle County and built a home close to 
                        Monticello
                    , although the continued calls of public dutyincluding years in Europe on diplomatic
                    missions-kept the friends apart. They nevertheless stayed in touch, mailing letters that kept one
                    another abreast of American affairs. The two men reunited in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in the early 1790s, when Jefferson became secretary of state and 
                        Monroe
                     entered the Senate, and together they helped build the Republican Party.
                In 1803, President Jefferson called upon his friend to travel to 
                        France
                     to ensure American access to the 
                        Mississippi
                     River. 
                        Monroe
                     joined Robert R. Livingston in 
                        Paris
                     in arranging the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase, the greatest achievement of Jefferson's presidency. Moving on to 
                        London, Monroe
                     then negotiated a treaty with Great Britain that failed to address the impressment of
                    sailors on the high seas. Jefferson's failure to support 
                        Monroe
                    's agreement, Cunningham argues, temporarily caused an estrangement between them, and
                    the rift widened when James 
                        Madison
                     won the Republican nomination for president over Monroe in 1808. After the rupture
                    healed, 
                        Monroe
                     entered 
                        Madison
                    's cabinet, where he helped guide the nation through the War of 1812. Becoming president
                    in his own right in 1817, 
                        Monroe
                     often turned to Jefferson for advice, especially on foreign policy. Cunningham
                    emphasizes the reciprocal nature of the  friendship, as
                    Jefferson in turn sought 
                        Monroe
                    's help in founding the University of 
                        Virginia
                    , convincing the sitting president to become a member of the board of visitors. In
                    Jefferson's final years, they drifted apart again, as debt forced 
                        Monroe
                     to sell his Albemarle home. Fittingly, concludes Cunningham, these two friends, who
                    shared parallel careers as governor, diplomat, secretary of state, and president, both died on July
                    4-Jefferson in 1826, 
                        Monroe
                     in 1831.
                Intended for a general audience, this nicely written, carefully researched, generously illustrated
                    volume not only shows each man's importance to the early American republic, but also underscores the
                    vital contributions of their decadeslong collaboration. The book's brevity ensures the superficial
                    treatment of some complex subjects, however. In discussing the 
                        Monroe
                     Doctrine, Cunningham implies that 
                        Monroe
                     followed Jefferson's advice to act in concert with the British, when in fact the
                    president promulgated his doctrine unilaterally. Building his narrative almost exclusively around
                    the written correspondence between the two Virginians, Cunningham at times strings out quotes from
                    their letters without much analysis. Heavy reliance on their written correspondence, moreover,
                    results in very thin treatment of those often critical times when both men were together at the same
                    location, such as at 
                        Annapolis
                     in 1783, and in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in the early 1790s.
                STUART LEIBIGER is associate professor of history at La Salle University, 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and is the author of Founding Friendship: George 
                            Washington
                        , James 
                            Madison
                        , and the Creation of the American Republic (1999).
            
            
                1816 America Rising, By C. Edward Skeen, (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 2003. Pp. xvi, 299. Illustrations, map, notes, bibliographical essay, index. $35.00.)
                Sometimes a period of time seems to focus events, trends, and meanings in such a way that it defines
                    an era, casts a deep shadow, or fixes the terms of collective experience for a generation. In living
                    memory, December 7,1941, the year 1968, and September 11, 2001, stand out as examples of such
                    focusing. Historians of the early American republic have recently been drawn to similar red-letter
                    periods: Andrew Burstein in Americas Jubilee: How in 1826 a
                        Generation Remembered Fifty Years of Independence (2002) and Louis R Masur in 1831: Year of Eclipse (2001). In 1990 Kenneth Stampp published 
                    America in 1857: A Nation on the Brink, an events-driven look at
                    an action-packed year that virtually guaranteed the coming of the American Civil War. In 1943
                    Bernard De Voto published what is still my personal favorite, Year of Decision,
                    1846, a sprawling epic, the print equivalent of a four-hour cinematic extravaganza, that brought
                    into brilliant perspective a number of easily overlooked events converging on the Polk
                    administration (itself easily overlooked) that truly redefined America.
                Now comes C. Edward Skeen with 1816: America Rising. Never one to indulge his own
                    ego, Skeen wisely acknowledges the probability (proved out by this reviewer) of being compared to
                    other one-year studies, protests (correctly) that his work began long before the two most recent
                    examples of the genre, and takes steps (also correctly) to disabuse the reader who might think that
                    he wants to claim for 1816 anything like the panoramic impact of De Voto's Wagnerian drama. But
                    1816: America Rising nevertheless brings together in one convenient account a
                    remarkable convergence of events, trends, and surprises that amply reward the attention given them
                    by the author (and readers) of this nifty volume.
                Specialists know that 1816 found a place in living memories (at least above the 35th parallel) as the
                    "year without a summer." Skeen reviews reports of hard frost in June as far south as Steubenville, 
                        Ohio
                    , and of the first frost of the new winter on August 29 in 
                        Richmond, Virginia
                    .
                Add to this freakish weather volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, sun spots, and eclipses of the sun and
                    the moon, and some people cast their minds on Biblical end times. This year seemed to people at the
                    time to mark a turning point-perhaps the turning point-in American history, and even human history.
                Following this dramatic setup, Skeen reviews in clear, readable prose the American situation at the
                    close of the War of 1812 with special attention to political issues that exercised "men of
                    affairs"-and have exercised most historians since. The twists and turns of the Fourteenth Congress
                    are lovingly displayed in four chapters that highlight the tariff and bank controversies, the
                    horrible Compensation Act, and the ever-puzzling dilemma of internal improvements. Stepping away
                    from congressional debates, Skeen examines July 4th celebrations as national ritual that was taking
                    on recognizable liturgical form. One chapter focuses on national defense and the much-needed reform
                    of militias and the national army, another on state-level problems that forced Supreme Court
                    decisions with national implications. Finally, the birth of sentimental and humanitarian movements
                    receives a nice overview in two chapters that track, among other things, the founding of new
                    prisons, Bible societies, peace movements, and a national society dedicated to the emancipation and
                    removal of African American slaves which resulted in the creation of 
                        Liberia
                    .
                
                Specialists may find this story all too familiar, but other readers will discover a delightful
                    rendering of at least some of what worried the American people at the dawn of the nation's second
                    generation. Adequate notes and a bibliographic essay will guide interested readers further into the
                    literature. Subscribers to the Indiana Magazine of History are quite likely to
                    find 1816: America Rising worth their time and attention.
                JOHN LAURITZ LARSON teaches history at Purdue University and is author of Internal
                        Improvement: National Public Works and the Promise of Popular Government in the Early 
                            United States
                        
                     (2001).
            
            
                
                    American Vanguard The United Auto Workers during the Reuther Years, 1935-1970, By
                    John Barnard, (
                        Detroit
                    : 
                        Wayne
                     State University Press, 2004. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical note, index,
                    $49.95)
                Born out of a series of epic confrontations with some of the nation's largest corporations, and
                    occupying a highly visible place as one of America's largest and most visionary unions, the United
                    Auto Workers (UAW) fascinated observers during its glory days and has since received considerable
                    attention from labor historians. Recent scholarship has tended to be critical of the UAW,
                    questioning both the collective bargaining and social achievements of the union and its most
                    prominent leader, Walter Reuther. In this sweeping history of the first four decades of the UAW,
                    John Barnard flatly rejects this view and describes the UAW as an "American vanguard" at the
                    forefront of efforts to humanize the workplace and fashion a social contract more favorable to
                    working-class Americans.
                Barnard vividly recounts and astutely analyzes the shop-floor, intraunion, and political dynamics
                    surrounding the UAW's formation. Throughout the union's history, disputes over such crucial issues
                    as the pace of work, supervisory treatment, job security, and adequate compensation inspired auto
                    worker activism. Shop-floor militants-mostly socialists and communists-successfully united a diverse
                    labor force and capitalized on a rare historical convergence of impaired credibility of top
                    corporate leadership, state and public tolerance of militant labor action, and self-portrayal of
                    union actions as upholding important American principles. Yet, as Barnard soberly notes, even after
                    electrifying triumphs at General Motors in 1937 and Ford in 1941, the UAW leadership's broader
                    ambitions were thwarted by GM's  insistence on the preservation
                    of management rights and a conservative backlash that defeated UAW efforts to gain political power
                    in 
                        Detroit
                    .
                After a bruising decade-long factional struggle for control of the union, Reuther became UAW
                    president in 1946 and the most eloquent post-World War II advocate of a broader social role for
                    labor. In contrast to scholars who have charged that Reuther too readily ceded managerial authority
                    to the auto makers in return for wage and benefit improvements, Barnard insists that the union
                    continued to sanction resistance to heavy-handed management on the shop floor. For Barnard, "the
                    conservative postwar political climate effectively precluded any other course" (p. 288), and under
                    the circumstances, Reuther and the UAW fashioned an impressive workplace compact that markedly
                    improved the lives of auto workers and their families.
                Barnard acknowledges that Reuther and the UAW were often frustrated in the political arena. Reuther
                    repeatedly tried but failed to establish a tripartite business, government, and labor administration
                    of economic affairs; and although the union reshaped 
                        Michigan
                     politics along social democratic lines, its hopes for an ideological realignment of the
                    national Democratic Party failed to materialize. Barnard notes that in spite of Reuther's
                    impassioned rhetoric on behalf of African Americans, farm workers, the poor, and the economically
                    displaced, his refusal to offend Lyndon B. Johnson by openly opposing the president's 
                        North Vietnam
                     policy undermined his ability to lead a revitalized progressive movement. Nevertheless,
                    Barnard does not fully account for Reuther's inability to activate broader labor support for his
                    political agenda.
                Exhaustively researched and crisply written, Barnard's book provides a thoughtful and often
                    persuasive counterpoint to those scholars who have criticized the UAW but not fully appreciated the
                    social and political constraints limiting its options. Yet at times, Barnard's critical judgment is
                    dulled by his reliance on sources close to Reuther and the UAW leadership-a close circle of
                    one-party rule embodying the form of democracy but not the spirit. Barnard's evidence suggests that
                    while the UAW never quite fulfilled its hopes of becoming an "American vanguard," it did succeed in
                    bringing dignity to thousands of workers and consistently sought to link labor's progress to the
                    advancement of the public good. American Vanguard performs a valuable service in
                    spotlighting these achievements and reclaiming the UAW's important social legacy.
                ROBERT BUSSEL is associate professor of history and director of the Labor Education and Research
                    Center at the University of 
                        Oregon
                    , Eugene. He is the author of From 
                            Harvard
                         to the Ranks oj Labor: Powers Hapgood and the American Working Class
                (1999).
            
            
            
                
                    The Anxieties of Affluence Critiques of American Consumer Culture, 1939-1979, By
                    Daniel Horowitz, (Amherst: University of 
                        Massachusetts
                     Press, 2004. Pp. x, 339. Tables, notes, index. $29.95.)
                In The Anxieties of Affluence Daniel Horowitz provides an in-depth intellectual
                    history overview of the critics of America's culture of abundance. In so doing, he admirably
                    complements his The Morality of Spending (1985), which examined the topic during
                    the period from 1875 to 1940. For Horowitz, the distinctiveness of latetwentieth century critiques
                    of consumer society lies in a new puritanism or ethic of self-restraint found alongside the
                    democratic discourse of achieving satisfaction through commercial goods and services. He begins with
                    the Second World War, when Lewis Mumford and others in the Office of Price Administration sought to
                    mobilize the war effort into a promotion of "chastened consumption" by encouraging citizens to
                    reject materialism, embrace the good life, and fight for the principles of democracy and community.
                    In an excellent study of two emigres, Ernest Dichter and George Katona, Horowitz sets out the early
                    Cold War context in which American democracy was equated with mass consumption as consumers were
                    encouraged to spend their way toward prosperity and away from the social and economic instabilities
                    that had ravaged Europe. Nevertheless, anxieties remained, and Horowitz steers his way through ideas
                    on the morality of the market by focusing on a number of key figures: J. K. Galbraith, Vance
                    Packard, Betty Friedan, Paul Goodman, Oscar Lewis, Martin Luther King, Jr., Rachel Carson, David
                    Potter, Michael Harrington, Ralph Nader, and Paul Ehrlich. His narrative ends with a study of Daniel
                    Bell, Christopher Lasch, and Robert Bellah, three figures who symbolized the change in the critique
                    of affluence in the 1970s, as the energy crisis made abundance no longer a moral problem for the
                    rich but a problem for all. Significantly, President Jimmy Carter drew on the jeremiads of all three
                    in his infamous 1979 "malaise" speech in which he suggested that the problems of American society
                    lay not in the policies of his government but in the people who increasingly turned inwards towards
                    self-gratification.
                Throughout, Horowitz emphasizes the persistence of modern moralism in an age of affluence but also
                    stresses important changes. Critics in the 1950s targeted the psychological problems of
                    comparatively wealthy suburbanites, although by the 1960s the focus shifted towards critiques which
                    would inspire alternative visions and social movements-King's civil rights, Nader's consumer
                    protectionism, and Ehrlich's environmentalism. Horowitz stresses the hegemony of the Cold War
                    consensus in the 1950s which equated democracy and mass consumption. A good intellectual historian,
                         he highlights the power of books both to inspire movements
                    and to reset the terms of public discussion.
                Perhaps the only criticism of Horowitz's narrative is that it implicitly celebrates those
                    alternatives to consumerism that the author finds personally inspirational. A brief epilogue
                    highlights the promotion of excess that immediately followed Carter's dour warnings and then passes
                    over the next two decades to examine the recent popular "post-moralist celebrations of affluence"
                    (p. 254): that no post-9/11 critiques of consumerism exist (save those of Islamic fundamentalists),
                    and that Americans are once again being encouraged to spend their way out of trouble. Such selection
                    both reflects the political proclivities of a generation of historians and denies the popularity of
                    continuing critiques of consumer society. One might see Horowitz's narrative of market anxieties as
                    the legacy of modern moralism, so often reflected in historical treatments of consumer society that
                    end on a pessimistic note (usually around in 1980). On the other hand, the approach ignores the
                    significance of texts such as Naomi Klein's No Logo (2001), interesting not so
                    much for her actual arguments but because a whole new generation of social activists, concerned with
                    the global excesses of consumer society, have embraced her aims. As Horowitz's earlier book
                    demonstrates, there has been a long-standing critique of the market-suggesting that it is unlikely
                    that criticism will come to an end now. However, in his focus on the period 1940-1980, his analysis
                    of the continuities between the likes of Mumford, Galbraith, Nader, and Lasch is unlikely to be
                    surpassed.
                MATTHEW HILTON is senior lecturer in history at the University of Birmingham, 
                        United Kingdom
                    , and author of Consumerism in Twentieth-Century Britain: The Search for a
                        Historical Movement (2003).
            
            
                
                    History and September 11th, Edited by Joanne Meyerowitz for The
                        Journal of American History, (
                        Philadelphia
                    ; Temple University Press, 2003. Pp. xi, 273, Notes, illustrations, maps, index.
                    Clothbound, $59.50; paperbound, $19.95.)
                For many people, especially those who travel, daily life bears sharp reminders that things have not
                    been the same since September 11th. In 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., there are now concrete barriers surrounding the Capitol, the White House, and
                    the 
                        Washington
                     Monument. In 
                        New Zealand
                    , too, there has been a dramatic increase in airport security. We seem to have lost our
                    innocence. However, the scholars who contribute to this valuable collection of essays placing the
                    events of September 11th  in historical perspective argue that
                    there was no Western innocence to be lost suddenly in the devastation caused by the deliberate
                    crashing of four American jets. There is never a complete severance, according to editor Joanne
                    Meyerowitz, between the before and after of a great historical rupture. Instead, we may discern
                    intricate connections, however unpalatable, between the terrorist attacks and U.S. foreign policy,
                    reaching back at the very least to the aftermath of the Second World War, and perhaps to the
                    imperialist intervention of western countries in the Middle East, Asia, and Africa.
                This collection of essays serves as an antidote to the amnesia fostered by a passive media and
                    political administrations to provide us with a complex multiperspectival understanding of our world
                    and an imperative to see our local and national milieu in a broader global context. Those of us who
                    teach American Studies outside the 
                        United States
                     have long been critical of the parochialism that we have perceived among Americans in
                    understanding international relations. In the aftermath of September 11th we noted two predominant
                    reactions from Americans: one, an intense nationalism and insistence upon a patriotic consensus that
                    divided the world into an "us" and a "them"; the other, an intensely unpopular and publicly
                    disparaged view that demanded a major revision of foreign policy to recognize American culpability
                    and seek a greater understanding of non-American peoples and cultures. These essays lay out the case
                    for the latter reaction by showing the consequences of U.S. self-interest on those regions of the
                    world that have possessed strategic political and economic importance to the nation. The work of
                    scholars applying a transnational view of political and cultural relations, this collection also
                    helps to explain the interdependency of nations and the complexities of balancing national
                    self-interest against world peace.
                One essay stands out in the collection because of its domestic focus and study of the immediate
                    impact of the attack on ordinary citizens. Contrary to the images of an aggressive nationalism and a
                    presidential rhetoric that promised retribution, Mary Marshal Clark's preliminary report of the 
                        Columbia
                     University Oral History Narrative and Memory Project reveals a depth of humanitarianism
                    as well as a yawning gap between America's political leaders and its citizens. This
                    thought-provoking piece contrasts individual experience with official and mediatized narratives to
                    reveal both the different and shared meanings of the event for people from a wide range of social
                    and ethnic backgrounds.
                The collection is well organized, with a useful overview by Meyerowitz, abstracts at the beginning of
                    each essay, and an appendix of key primary source documents to which the contributors refer in their
                    presentations. The essays address U.S.  intervention in the
                    Middle East, antiAmericanism in Muslim countries, religious fundamentalism, foreign policy, and
                    American nationalism, and should allow students and general readers to appreciate and debate the
                    ramifications of national policies and the responsibilities of world citizenship.
                MAUREEN E. MONTGOMERY teaches American Studies and directs the gender studies program at the
                    University of Canterbury, 
                        New Zealand
                    , and is the author of "The Savagery of Civility: The Rhetoric of Civilization in the
                    Wake of September 11th," Australasian Journal oj American Studies 21 (December
                    2002) and "'America the Beautiful': Patriotism and the Politics of Dissent in Bush's America," in
                    Peter Bastian and Jan Pilditch, eds., The End of the American Century?
                (2004).
            
            
                
                    The Quakers in America, By Thomas D. Hamm, (New Yorke 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 2003. Pp. viii, 293. Illustrations, chronology, glossary, notes,
                    resources for further study, index. $40.00.)
                The Society of Friends, or Quakers, has long attracted the attention of scholars and activists,
                    particularly at times of social stress or crisis when their Friendly determination to stand against
                    the dominant society has made their witness relevant to contemporary concerns. Since the end of the 
                        North Vietnam
                     era, issues such as conscientious objection have become less urgent, and the Quakers,
                    together with the Amish and Mennonites, have fallen into sectarian obscurity. Their philosophy is
                    viewed as possessing little pertinence to the major social issues of the day, despite the ongoing
                    toll which violence takes in our turbulent world.
                The 
                        Columbia
                     Contemporary American Religion Series-also including, to date, entries on Catholicism,
                    Protestantism, Judaism, Buddhism, and Islam-aims at communicating surveys of various religious
                    traditions in their contemporary manifestations in the 
                        United States
                     to a broad readership, not excluding scholars. Though the focus is not historical, each
                    book includes sufficient historical background to provide adequate contextualization for
                    understanding the present-day scene. In this volume, Thomas Hamm, a prominent 
                        Quaker
                     historian based at Earlham College in 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, presents a useful, readable, and most likely teachable survey of the Friendly
                    community in the early twenty-first century. Hamm begins with participant-observer accounts of four 
                        Quaker
                     worship sessions, each illustrative of the major divisions  within today's broader 
                        Quaker
                     community. These divisions represent the culmination of decades of interaction between
                    distinctive 
                        Quaker
                     beliefs and practices and the evangelical and liberal strains in the larger cultures of
                    American Protestant Christianity. The resultant impression is that the amiable gentleman on the box
                    of oatmeal is about as representative of American Quakers as the old image of Aunt Jemima was
                    reflective of African American realities.
                Subsequent chapters address 
                        Quaker
                     practice in worship and "benevolence" as well as issues in the contemporary 
                        Quaker
                     communityespecially war and peace, race, gender, and sexuality-which the author
                    assesses in terms of the congruence between current strategies and Friendly tradition. Hamm also
                    discusses 
                        Quaker
                     identity, as problematized in a long history of schism characteristic of sectarians in
                    general and of Quakers in particular, and as reflected in the wide variety of 
                        Quaker
                     communities which the author limned in his opening survey. Although the issues raised
                    here have often been presented in terms of classic Weberian sociology, Hamm avoids any overt
                    methodological constructs and approaches his material from a humanistic perspective. In this he is
                    largely successful; the result is worth reading by anyone seeking knowledge of religion in the
                    contemporary 
                        United States
                    .
                PETER W. WILLIAMS is distinguished professor of comparative religion and American Studies at
                    Miami University, 
                        Ohio
                    .
            
            
                
                    A Time to Every Purpose The Four Seasons in American Culture, By Michael Kammen, (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 2004. Pp. 336. Illustrations, color plates, notes, index. $39.95.)
                With every book, it seems, Michael Kammen has edged closer to identifying himself with the
                    art-historical subset of the historical profession. With this lavishly illustrated volume, he has
                    taken the final step in that direction. Although he does examine the work of essayists and thinkers
                    caught up in American nature imagery (such as Henry David Thoreau, Aldo Leopold, Hal Borland, and
                    Donald Grant 
                        Mitchell
                    , a. k. a. "Ik Marvel"), the book is most appealing on the basis of Kammen's assemblage
                    of actual pictures showing the iconography of seasonal change. These run the gamut from Fanny
                    Palmer's several series of popular nineteenth-century prints for Currier & Ives, including
                        The Four Seasons of Life, to high art painting, to relatively obscure modern
                    works by James McGarrell  and Lisa Zwerling. The styles vary,
                    too, from the homely naturalism of Currier & Ives, who see the seasons as the creeping
                    infirmities of mankind, to 
                        Jasper
                     Johns, for whom Summer (1986-1987) is a witty collage of images from sources ranging
                    from the Mono Lisa to the American flag.
                The tradition of art and decoration based on the theme of the seasons is, of course, older than
                    Virgil or Ovid. The seasons tie the natural cycle of the year to that of the individual. When
                    Persephone vanishes into the underworld, the flowers go with her, at least until spring comes again.
                    In the work of the Hudson River painter Thomas Cole, empires rise and fall according to the rhythms
                    of the day and the seasons. The progress of the school year is neatly traced by a calendar of
                    holiday seasons, beginning with Halloween and ending some time after Easter in the brave flutter of
                    Memorial Day flags. The illustrated calendar, as 
                        Norman
                     Rockwell's still-popular designs demonstrate, articulates the passage of time through
                    changes in the seasons-whether natural or manufactured by the greeting card industry and the U.S.
                    Congress.
                Americans relationship to the natural environment, from the very beginning, was surely influenced by
                    the fact that the nation lacked a lengthy history. We had no castles on the Rhine, no time-blackened
                    cathedrals, no ancient texts, but we did have a physical place of astonishing variety, beauty, and
                    expanse. This place-ever changing over time, yet always dominant and present in the imagination-is
                    our link to antiquity. It is the warrant on which we act, the standard by which all things are
                    measured. The planting, the cultivating, the harvesting, and the waiting are the cyclical signs that
                    unite us with the land, each season with its singular beauties. Spring always comes again, with its
                    promise of an America that is, without the impediments of castles and cathedrals, forever young.
                Kammen's A Time to Every Purpose is a book for a wide range of purposes. It is a
                    meditation on time, faith, nostalgia, anti-urbanism, and the astonishing diversity with which a
                    single notion can be expressed in a variety of media. This is history at its very best, open to
                    every possible morsel of evidence, each one treated with deep respect for its intrinsic character
                    and meaning.
                KARAL ANN MARLING is professor of art history at the University of 
                        Minnesota
                    .
            
            
            
                REVIEW NOTICES
                
                    
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         A Circle City History, By Jeffrey Tenuth, (
                        Charleston
                    , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2004. Pp. 159. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    Paperbound, $24.99.)
                Arcadia Publishing has become known for its photographic histories of U. S. cities and counties. Its
                        Making of America series, in contrast, offers a traditional narrative history
                    with pictures as accompaniment. Tenuth's book is recommendable to anyone seeking a short and
                    substantial history of Indiana's capitol, as he argues that the city's placement in the middle of
                    the state-far away from river transportation-produced a metropolis sufficiently flexible to prosper
                    throughout its history. Although Tenuth keeps his focus on business and transportation history, he
                    also covers the city's politics and makes an occasional foray into cultural history. The
                    illustrations are wide-ranging and well-chosen, and the bibliography will be useful to many readers,
                    but one might wish for a more substantive index.
                
                    The Taming of the Wilderness Indiana's Transition from Indian Hunting Grounds to
                        Hoosier Farmland, 1800-1875, By Leon E Hesser, (
                        Bloomington
                    , Ind.: 1st Books Library, 2002. Illustrations, maps, bibliography, notes. Clothbound,
                    $26.50; paperbound, $16.50; electronic, $4.95.)
                Hesser narrates the early years of Indiana history (1800-1875) largely through the lens of his
                    ancestral roots in 
                        Randolph County
                    , but also includes material from major events in the state's history such as the Battle
                    of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and Levi Coffin's work on the Underground Railroad. Hesser, who has a Ph.D. in
                    agricultural economics from Purdue and spent his career improving food production in developing
                    nations, shows a special interest in the state's agriculture and transportation history.
                
                
                    Lingering Spirit A Photographic Tribute to Indiana's Fading, Forlorn, and Forgotten
                        Places, By John Bower Foreword by Judy O'Bannon, (
                        Bloomington
                    : Studio Indiana, 2003. Illustrations. Paperbound, $22.00.)
                Black and white photographs of dilapidated buildings, sagging porches, rusty doorknobs, and aged
                    automobiles evoke echoes from the livelier pasts of ten counties in south-central Indiana. The
                    photographs are presented in categories of houses, farms, transportation, stores, schools, churches,
                    and cemeteries.
                
                    Artist's Life Rudolph Schwarz and Karl Bitter, By Theodore Stempfel Edited by
                    Eberhard Reichmann, (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Max Kade German-American Center and Indiana German Heritage Society, 2002. Pp. xvi,
                    40. Illustrations, notes. Contact the Max Kade Center for availability.)
                Eberhard Reichmann, professor emeritus of Germanic Studies at Indiana University, introduces the
                    reproduction of a short 1936 biography of Rudolph Schwarz, one of the sculptors of the Indiana
                    Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Monument. Published for the monument's 2002 centennial, the volume highlights
                    the impact of German American heritage on Indiana art and architecture: Stempfel, Schwarz, Schwarz's
                    friend Karl Bitter, monument architect Bruno Schmitz, and the rest of the design and building team
                    were all German immigrants. The volume also contains images of these men and of examples of their
                    work.
                
                    
                        
                            Kaskaskia
                            Illinois
                        -to-French Dictionary, Edited by Carl Masthay, (
                        St. Louis
                    : By the Author, 2002. $55.00.)
                Independent scholar Carl Masthay has transcribed a nearly three-hundred-year-old 
                        Kaskaskia
                    -to-French dictionary compiled by Jesuit missionaries working amidst Midwestern
                    Algonquian-speaking tribes. In addition, Masthay provides some English translations of 
                        Kaskaskia
                     words and a reference guide with suggested retranslations from French to Kaskasia. The
                    book also presents a description of editorial procedures; a reprinted article by John Francis Bannon
                    about Gabriel Marest, SJ, a likely transcriber; selected terms of interest, such as superstitions
                    and maledicta; and a short overview of the 
                        Illinois
                     language by David Costa.
                
                
                    Profiles of 
                            Ohio
                         Women, 1803-2003, By Jacqueline Jones Royster, (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 2003. Pp. xiv, 264. Illustrations, appendices, bibliography, index.
                    $39.95.)
                Sponsored by the 
                        Ohio
                     Bicentennial Commission, Profiles of 
                            Ohio
                         Women includes short profiles of two hundred women selected from nominations
                    by organizations from throughout the state. The 
                        Ohio
                     Women's Advisory Council made the final selection, and a list of 362 runners-up is also
                    included. The profiles are organized by the type of contribution made to 
                        Ohio
                     history (such as education, literature, and religion) and then alphabetized within each
                    section. Each biography also includes a photograph. Readers will be interested in the profiles of
                    such women as Victoria Woodhull, Lillian Gish, Gloria Steinem, and Toni Morrison.
                
                    Religion in 
                            Ohio
                         Profiles of Faith Communities, Edited by Tarunjit Singh Butalia and Dianne P.
                    Small, (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 2004. Pp. xviii, 412. Illustrations, notes, index. Clothbound,
                    $34.95; paperbound, $16.95.)
                This collection of essays honors 
                        Ohio
                    's 2003 bicentennial. The opening chapter describes the purpose of the book as "renewing
                    and reaffirming the centuries-old values and beliefs of those gone before us" (p. 27). Each of the
                    fifty-two short essays contains a sketch about the history of a faith tradition in 
                        Ohio
                    , its basic tenets, current demographics, contact information for its administration (if
                    extant), and a list of monograph resources. This collection offers a thorough vision of the
                    diversity of faiths in 
                        Ohio
                    , and is also useful for general readers interested in learning the basic beliefs of
                    these faiths from people who know them well.
                
                    Along the Towpath A Journalist Rediscovers the 
                            Ohio
                         & Erie Canal, By Al Simpson Edited by Russ Musarra, (Akron, 
                        Ohio
                    : University of Akron Libraries, 2003. Pp. viii, 234. Illustrations, index. Clothbound,
                    $29.95; paperbound, $19.95.)
                This book reprints a series of columns by Al Simpson, a former reporter for the Canton
                        Repository. The columns begin in 1964 with an account of the 16-mile walk Simpson took on
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     & Erie Canal towpath in Stark County, 
                        Ohio
                    . Simpson, along with Ralph Regula (later an 
                        Ohio
                     congressman), became committed to preserving the entire towpath-309 miles from Lake
                    Erie to the 
                        Ohio
                     River-for green space. The columns narrate the canal's political aspects and linger
                    over its natural beauty. Though the last column is dated 1970, an afterword updates readers on the
                    legal status of the canal and current tourism.
            
            
            
                LETTERS
                
                    
                        
                            
                                To the Editor,
                                I just finished reading your article "You Can't Burn History: Getting Right with the
                                    Klan in 
                                        Noblesville
                                    , Indiana," by Allen Safianow. I am now 88 years in age and was a
                                    teenager in the 1920s and do remember the Klan marches in 
                                        Noblesville
                                    , Sheridan, and Boxley I lived 1 mile west of Boxley and knew some of
                                    the members and saw them march. I remember the marches when I was very young and
                                    could identify some of them by shoes they wore and pant legs of trousers.
                                Also, I was an elected sheriff of 
                                        Hamilton County
                                    , Indiana, 1967 to 1971. In those years D. C. Stevenson applied for a
                                    new trial in 
                                        Hamilton County
                                     Circuit Court, Judge Edward E New presiding, and he sent me to 
                                        Michigan
                                     City, Indiana, to pick him up from state prison there and bring him to 
                                        Noblesville
                                     for a hearing for a new trial. The hearing was short and a new trial
                                    was denied, and he was returned by me to serve the balance of his life sentence. The
                                    article was real interesting to me as I saw it in action.
                                Also in the 1960s they [the Klan] had what I think was their last meeting held at
                                    Eagletown, Indiana, a small village in 
                                        Washington
                                     Township west of 
                                        Westfield
                                    , Indiana. They came to my office at the above-mentioned time and got my
                                    approval for the meeting, and the only restrictions I gave to them were No Cross
                                    Burnings and No Disorderly Conduct. They had the meeting and I never heard from them
                                    again.
                                P. S. I was a Boxley, Indiana, resident in youth. I resided in the jail residence at
                                    8th and Conner in 
                                        Noblesville
                                    , Indiana, 1958 to 1971. The jail held the following notables from the
                                    1860s to 1971: D. C. Stephenson, Robert and Willadine Wotring, Charles Manson,
                                    William Dudley Pelley.
                                
                                    Clifford McCory
                                    
                              Sarasota, 
                                    Florida
                                 
                              
                           
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                RECENT ARTICLES, BOOKS, PAMPHLETS, DISSERTATIONS, AND OTHER PUBLICATIONS IN INDIANA HISTORY
                Compiled by SUZANNE HAHN, Indiana Historical Society
                
                    Akins, Thomas N., Crescendo: 
                                Indianapolis
                             Symphony Orchestra, 1930-2005 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: Indiana Symphony Society, Inc., 2004).
                    Arnold, Robert D., The Rivalry: Indiana and Purdue and the History of their Old
                            Oaken Bucket Battles, 1925-2002 (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind.: AuthorHouse, 2004).
                    Bassett, Beth, "V-Mail, As In Victory Mail," Newton County Historical Society Newcomer, 9 (Spring and Summer 2004).
                    Beatty, John D., "
                            Allen County
                         in Print: A Look at the Historiography of 
                            Allen County
                        ," Old Fort News, 67 No. 1 (2004).
                    Bland, Richard L., "Traugott Bromme's Travel Account of Indiana in 1848," The
                            Hoosier Genealogist, 44 (Fall 2004).
                    Boo, Michael, "The Hidden Dunes," Outdoor Indiana, 69 (September/October
                        2004). [Indiana Dunes State Park.]
                    Boomhower, Ray E., "Destination Indiana: 
                            Aurora
                        's Veraestau," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 16
                        (Spring 2004).
                    
                        -Gus Grissom: The Lost Astronaut (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2004).
                    
                        -One Shot: The World War II Photography of John A. Bushemi (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2004).
                    Bower, John, Guardians of the Soul: Angels and Innocents, Mourners and
                            SaintsIndiana's Remarkable Cemetery Sculpture (
                            Bloomington
                        : Studio Indiana, 2004).
                    
                    Brockman, Paul, "Focus: Ernie Pyle's Library," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, 16 (Fall 2004).
                    
                        
                            Brown
                        , Katherine, The One-Room or District Schools in 
                                Wabash
                             County ([Indiana]: 
                            Wabash
                         County Retired Teachers Association, [2004]).
                    Burke, Jeanne, "
                            Richmond
                        : A Plantation on the 
                            Ohio
                        ," The Hoosier Genealogist, 44 (Spring 2004).
                    Cassuto, Leonard, and Clare 
                            Virginia
                         Eby, eds., The 
                                Cambridge
                             Companion to Theodore Dreiser (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass.: 
                            Cambridge
                         University Press, 2004).
                    Castaldi, Thomas E., 
                            
                                Wabash
                             & Erie Canal Notebook III: 
                                Wabash
                             and Miami Counties (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , Ind.: The Author, 2004).
                    Catlin-Legutko, Cinnamon, The Art of Healing: The WishardArt Collection (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press in cooperation with the Wishard Memorial
                        Foundation, 2004).
                    Cava, Pete, "Requiem for a Ballplayer: Indiana's Chick Stahl," Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, 16 (Summer 2004).
                    Cavinder, Fred D., "Max Ehrmann: 
                            Terre Haute
                        's Poet, Prophet, and Philosopher," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, 16 (Summer 2004).
                    Cheatham, Wallace M., "Ouanga:
                        
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana, and the Premiere of a 20th-century American Opera," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, 100 (June 2004).
                    
                        City of 
                                Bloomington
                            : Interim Report (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind.: City of 
                            Bloomington
                        , [2004]).
                    Coplen, Dan, "75 Years of the Kerlin Motor Company," The Thaddeus: A Magazine of 
                                Kosciusko
                             County and its Historical Society, 76 (Winter 2004).
                    Darbee, Leigh, "Opportunity on the Frontier: Workers at the Indiana Cotton Mills," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 16 (Spring 2004).
                    Davis, Barbara 
                            Butler
                        , ed., Affectionately Yours: The Civil War Home Front Letters of the
                            Ovid 
                                Butler
                             Family (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2004). [Primarily letters written between 1863
                        and 1865 by Butler family members to Scot 
                            Butler
                         who served in the 33rd Indiana Infantry and the U.S. Signal Corps.]
                    Dearinger, Ryan L., "Violence, Masculinity, Image, and Reality on the Antebellum Frontier,"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, 100 (March 2004).
                    Erekson, Keith A., "Bringing Research to the General Public: Results of the 2003 Indiana Magazine of History's Readers’ Survey," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, 100 (March 2004).
                    "The Factory and Apparatus of the Fort 
                            Wayne
                         Electric Corporation," Old Fort News, 67 No. 1 (2004). [Reprinted
                        from Electrical Engineer: A Weekly Review of Theoretical and Applied
                        Electricity, June 27, 1894.]
                    
                    Farnsley, Arthur Emery, Sacred Circles, Public Squares.The Multicentering of
                            American Religion (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2004).
                    Ferrell, Robert H., "The Large Book versus the Small: A Presidential Historian's Consideration
                        of Three Recent Biographies," Indiana Magazine of History, 100 (December
                        2004).
                    Ferrucci, Katherine, Limestone Lives: Voices from the Indiana Stone Belt (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2004).
                    "Fort Benjamin Harrison," 
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Postcard Club, (March 2004). [Reproductions of postcards of the fort.]
                    Frantz, Edward, "A March of Triumph? Benjamin Harrison's Southern Tour and the Limits of
                        Racial and Regional Reconciliation," Indiana Magazine of History, 100
                        (December 2004).
                    Fuller, Thomas, "'Go West, young man!'-An Elusive Slogan," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, 100 (September 2004).
                    Gaff, Alan D., Bayonets in the Wilderness: Anthony 
                                Wayne
                            's Legion in the Old Northwest (
                            Norman
                        : University of 
                            Oklahoma
                         Press, 2004).
                    Gagnon, Cappy, Notre Dame Baseball Greats from Anson to Yaz (
                            Charleston
                        , S. C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2004).
                    Gassen, Timothy, "Red, White and Blues: A Personal History of the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Racers," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 17 (Winter
                        2005).
                    Gathorne-Hardy, Jonathan, Kinsev: Sex the Measure of All Things (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2004). [Paperback edition of 2000 book.]
                    Glen, John M., et al., "Indiana Archives: African American History," Indiana Magazine of History, 100 (December 2004).
                    Gnat, Raymond E., comp., The 
                                Indianapolis
                             Literary Club: Summarized Record, 1976-2003, To which is
                            Appended Historical Reminiscences & Vignettes (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Indianapolis
                         Literary Club Foundation, 2004).
                    Grant, H. Roger, "Follow the Flag": A History of the 
                                Wabash
                             Railroad Company (
                            DeKalb
                        , Ill.: Northern 
                            Illinois
                         University Press, 2004).
                    Green, Daniel R., "Crossing Over the Line: The Undoing of Jim Crow in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1945-1965" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University, 2004).
                    Griffler, Keith P, Front Line of Freedom: African Americans and the Forging of
                            the Underground Railroad in the 
                                Ohio
                             Valley (
                            Lexington
                        : University Press of 
                            Kentucky
                        , 2004).
                    Guide, William E, Hopes, Dreams, and Books: The Story of North Central High
                            School, 1956-2004 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Par Digital Imaging, 2004).
                    Hamm, Thomas D., et al., ‘"A Great and Good People': Midwestern Quakers and
                        the Struggle Against Slavery," Indiana Magazine of History, 100 (March 2004).
                    
                    Hanna, Jack, "Ink Spots Quartet Origins in Indiana," Black History News &
                            Notes, No. 95 (February 2004).
                    Harroff, Stephen Bowers, The Amish Schools of Indiana: Faith in Education
                        (West 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind.: Purdue University Press, 2004).
                    Hendrick, George, and Willene Hendrick, eds., Fleeing for Freedom: Stories of the
                            Underground Railroad as told by Levi Coffin and William Still (
                            Chicago
                        , Ill.: Ivan R. Dee, 2004).
                    Hinshaw, Gregory P., Rock-Ribbbed Republican 
                                Randolph County
                            
                        : One Hundred Fifty Years of the Grand Old Party in One of Indiana's Republican
                        Strongholds, 1854-2004 ([Winchester, Ind.: s.n.], 2004).
                    Hook, Sara Anne, " ‘I've Got the Black Powder Blues': Collecting Company Memorabilia Enhances
                        Family History Research," The Hoosier Genealogist, 44 (Summer 2004).
                    Howell, Kevin, "Inspiration," Outdoor Indiana, 69 (March/April 2004). [Deer
                        Creek in 
                            Carroll County
                        .]
                    Indiana State Teachers Association, Advancing the Cause of Education: A History
                            of the Indiana State Teachers Association, 1854-2004 (West 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind.: Purdue University Press, 2004).
                    Jaffe, Celeste, and Raynel Berry, "History of Flanner House," Black History News
                            & Notes, No. 96 (May 2004).
                    January, Alan, "Family History Resources in the Indiana State Archives," The
                            Hoosier Genealogist, 44 (Summer 2004).
                    Jay, Stephen J., "Leroy E. Burney: A Hoosier Pioneer in Public Health," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, 16 (Spring 2004).
                    Knapp, Kathryn L., The Kickin’ Hoosiers: ferry Yeagley and Championship Soccer at
                            Indiana (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind.: Quarry Books, 2004).
                    
                        
                            Knox
                        , Chuck, "Charles Holloway" Old Fort News, 66 No. 2 (2003).
                    Lane, James B., and Paul B. Kern, "Educating the Calumet Region: A History of Indiana
                        University Northwest," Steel Shavings, 35 (2004).
                    Lassiter, Luke E., The Other Side of 
                                Middletown
                            : Exploring 
                                Muncie
                            's African American Community (Walnut Creek, Calif.: AltaMira Press, 2004).
                    Leonetti, Ron, and Christopher 
                            Jordan
                        , Unexpected Indiana: A Portfolio of Natural Landscapes (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind.: Quarry Books, 2004).
                    Lewis, G. Malcolm, "First Nations Mapmaking in the Great Lakes Region in Intercultural
                        Contexts: A Historical Review," The 
                                Michigan
                             Historical Review, 30 (Fall 2004).
                    "Life in the Calumet Region during the Ides of March, 2003," Steel Shavings,
                        36 (2005). [Journals and memoirs by Indiana University, Northwest students and alumni.]
                    
                    McCafferty, Carol A., and Susan E. King, "Singin’ Sam: More Than the Barbasol Man," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 17 (Winter 2005).
                    McMullen, Judith Q., "Indiana's Lincoln: Oral History Gathered by the Southwestern Indiana
                        Historical Society during the ‘Lincoln Inquiry,’ 1920-1927," The Hoosier
                            Genealogist, 43 (Winter 2003).
                    Madden, W.C., 
                            Crown Hill Cemetery (
                            Charleston
                        , S. C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2004).
                    Mannheimer, Steve, Stone, Steel & Spirit: Indiana State Museum (
                            Cincinnati, Ohio
                        : Emmis Books, 2004).
                    Mapes, Mary L., A Public Charity: Religion and Social Welfare in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1929-2002 (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2004).
                    Marsh, Tanya D., "A Genealogist's Guide to Indiana Land Records," The Hoosier
                            Genealogist, 43 (Winter 2003).
                    "The Maxwell Centennial Celebration Tour 2004," 
                            
                                Henry County
                             Historicalog, 32 (Spring 2004). [Also includes articles on the 1910-1912
                        Maxwell Automobile Runs.]
                    Mills, Randy, "'It is the cause of all mischief which the Indians suffer': Native Americans
                        and Alcohol Abuse in the Old Northwest," 
                            
                                Ohio
                             Valley History, 3 (Fall 2003).
                    
                        
                            Mitchell
                        , Mary Elizabeth Donnell, "Luther Donnell-
                            Decatur
                         County, Indiana's Great Enemy of Slavery," Black History News
                            & Notes, No. 97 (August 2004).
                    Moore, Wilma, "Black History News & Notes Celebrates 25 Years," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 98 (November 2004). [Includes index of articles,
                        1979-2004.]
                    Moore, Wilma, "Russell A. Lane: A Principled Principal," Black History News
                            & Notes, No. 96 (May 2004).
                    Moore, Wilma, "Stanley 
                            Warren
                        : Indiana Educator," Black History News & Notes, No. 99
                        (February 2005).
                    Mowery, J. 
                            Franklin
                        , "William Henry Harrison's Presidential Autograph or the Earliest Documented
                        Presidential Stamped Signature?," Manuscripts, 56 (Summer 2004).
                    Nation, Richard F, "Violence and the Rights of African Americans in Civil War-Era Indiana: The
                        Case of James Hays," Indiana Magazine of History, 100 (September 2004).
                    Newton, Judith Vale, and Carol Ann Weiss, Skirting the Issue: Stories of
                            Indiana's Historical Women Artists (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2004).
                    
                    Newton, Judith Vale, and Carol Ann Weiss, "The Spirit of the Times: From Skirting
                            the Issue: Stories of Indiana's Historical Women Artists," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, 16 (Fall 2004).
                    Northcott, Dennis, Indiana Civil War Veterans: Transcription of the Death Rolls
                            of the Department of Indiana, 1882-1948 (
                            St. Louis
                        , Mo.: D. Northcott, 2005). [Grand Army of the Republic.]
                    "
                            Ohio
                         Falls Canal: Indiana's First Attempted Canal," The Hoosier
                        Packet, 3 (July 2004).
                    Paddock, Geoff, "For the Betterment of Indiana: Lieutenant Governor Richard O. Ristine," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 16 (Fall 2004).
                    Pendley, Trent D., The Jewish History of the Indiana Dunes Country 1830-1950
                        (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , Ind.: Indiana Jewish Historical Society, 2004).
                    Perry, Rachel Berenson, "Frank V Dudley: Artist and Activist for the Indiana Dunes," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 16 (Summer 2004).
                    Perry, Rachel Berenson, "Whispers to Shouts," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, 16 (Fall 2004). [Discusses an Indiana State Museum exhibition of work by
                        historical and contemporary Indiana women.]
                    Pickett, William B., "The Firebombing of the 
                            Terre Haute
                         Holocaust Museum: A Hoosier Community Responds to an Assault on Collective Memory,"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, 100 (September 2004).
                    
                        
                            
                                Pike County
                            , Indiana Pictorial History (
                            Evansville
                        , Ind.: M. T. Publishing Company, 2004).
                    Porter, Joseph C, ‘"A River of Promise': Historians Reconsider the 
                            Missouri
                         River and Its Explorers," Indiana Magazine of History, 100
                        (December 2004).
                    
                        
                            
                                Posey County
                            : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 2004).
                    Pratt, Dorothy O., Shipshewana: An Indiana Amish Community (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind.: Quarry Books, 2004).
                    Quigley, Barbara, "Focus: African Americans and the Civilian Conservation Corps," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 17 (Winter 2005).
                    Quigley, Barbara, "Focus: Cigarettes and Thunderbolt: 
                            Indianapolis
                         Major-League Baseball Cards," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, 16 (Summer 2004).
                    Ray, Nina M., and Marjorie Ray Schwier, "A Heart of Steel and the Father of a Governor:
                        Searching for William Ray of County Down, 
                            Ireland
                        ," The Hoosier Genealogist, 44 (Spring 2004).
                    Reed, Robert, Central Indiana Interurban (
                            Charleston
                        , S. C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2004).
                    
                    
                        ——Indiana's Covered Bridges (
                            Charleston
                        , S. C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2004).
                    Rubinfine, Joe, and John M. Taylor, "Harrison as President," Manuscripts, 56
                        (Spring 2004). [William Henry Harrison.]
                    Safianow, Allen, ‘"You Can't Burn History': Getting Right with the Klan in 
                            Noblesville
                        , Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, 100 (June 2004).
                    Schmidt, Carolyn I., "Canawlers At Rest: Willard Carpenter," The Hoosier
                        Packet, 3 (March 2004).
                    Schoonover, Phyllis, ["Dairies of 
                            Marshall County
                        "], The 
                                Marshall County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, 33 (Summer 2004).
                    Schrader, Richard J., The Hoosier House: Bobbs-Merrill and Its Predecessors,
                        1850-1985: A Documentary Volume (
                            Detroit
                        , Mich.: Gale, 2004).
                    
                        Scott County: Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 2004).
                    Scott, Joseph A., "Delco Radio History Leading to 
                            Kokomo
                        , Indiana," Indiana Historical Radio Society Bulletin, 33 (Fall
                        2004).
                    Seigel, Peggy, "Who's Hiding in Our Basements? Abolitionists and the Underground Railroad in 
                            Allen County
                        , Indiana Reconsidered," Old Fort News, 66 No. 2 (2003).
                    Shaughnessy, Edward L., "A Trip Back in Time: Saint Meinrad before Vatican II," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 16 (Summer 2004).
                    Sheehan, Bernard W, "Jefferson's ‘Empire for Liberty’," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, 100 (December 2004).
                    Shepard, Randall T., Justice Shall Be Administered Freely: State of the Indiana
                            Judiciary 1988-2004 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Supreme Court, [2004]).
                    
                        -State of the Judiciary: A Difficult Year that Prompted Reflection ([
                            Indianapolis
                        : s. n.], 2004).
                    Sherwood, Elmer W, A Soldier in World War I: The Diary of Elmer W. Sherwood.
                        Ed. Robert H. Ferrell (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2004).
                    Shirley, Janet Carter, The Indiana University Alumni Association: One Hundred and
                            Fifty Years, 1854-2004 ([
                            Bloomington
                        ]: Indiana University Alumni Association, 2004).
                    Slutz, Theodore, "How He Came Back: E. Howard Cadle and the Cadle Tabernacle," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 17 (Winter 2005).
                    Smith, Carlton B., and Shawn D. Chase, "Silent Era on the Avenue: The Madam Walker Theatre
                        Barton Pipe Organ and Mary Singleton, Organist," Black History News &
                            Notes, No. 95 (February 2004).
                    Smith, David L., "Mabelle and Me: The Career of Clifton Webb," Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, 16 (Fall 2004).
                    
                    Smith, John Martin, 
                            
                                Auburn
                            : History of the Municipal City of 
                                Auburn
                            , Indiana, 1900-2000 (
                            Auburn
                        , Ind.: City of 
                            Auburn
                        , 2004).
                    Spann, Edward K., "Their Most Ardent Pleader for Woman's Rights': Congresswoman 
                            Virginia
                         E. Jenckes," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 17 (Winter
                        2005).
                    Stall, Sam, Tray Chic: Celebrating Indiana's Cafeteria Culture (
                            Cincinnati, Ohio
                        : Guild Press, Emmis Publishing, 2004).
                    
                        
                            
                                Sullivan County
                            , Indiana: Pictorial History, vol. 2 (
                            Nashville
                        , Tenn.: Turner Publishing Company, 2004).
                    Swaim, Connie, "The Homemaker's Friend: The Hoosier Kitchen Cabinet," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, 16 (Spring 2004).
                    Swygert, Michael I., "And, We Must Make Them Noble": A Contextual History of the 
                                Valparaiso
                             University School of Law, 1879-2004 (Durham, N. C.: Carolina Academic
                        Press, 2004).
                    Taylor, Erica, "On the Waterfront: Lakeside Landmarks Accent ‘The Region’," Indiana Preservationist, No. 5 (September/October 2004).
                    Tenuth, Jeffrey, 
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            : A Circle City History (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2004).
                    "They Came in the Mail: Mail-Order Houses Left an Architectural Stamp on Hoosier
                        Neighborhoods," Indiana Preservationist, No. 3 (May/June 2004).
                    Thompson, Brian, Devastating Eden: The Search for Utopia in America (
                            London
                        : HarperCollins, 2004).
                    Trotman, Sue, "Gosport History Museum, 
                            Owen County
                        , Indiana," The Hoosier Genealogist, 43 (Winter 2003).
                    Tucker, Todd, Notre Dame vs. the Klan: How the Fighting Irish Defeated the Ku
                            Klux Klan (
                            Chicago
                        , Ill.: Loyola Press, 2004).
                    Tuohy, Martin, "Researching Hoosier Family History at the National Archives -Great Lakes
                        Region in 
                            Chicago
                        , Part 1: An Introduction to the National Archives," The Hoosier
                            Genealogist, 44 (Fall 2004).
                    Vanderstel, David, et ah, "The State of Public History in Indiana: A
                        Conversation," Indiana Magazine of History, 100 (June 2004). [Interview with
                        Reid Williamson and Sal Cilella.]
                    
                        
                            Warren
                        , Stanley, "Belford C. ‘Sinky’ Hendricks: A Musician's Musician," Indiana Magazine of History, 100 (June 2004).
                    
                        
                            Warren
                        , Stanley, "Willard B. Ransom: A Life Worth Living," Black History News
                            & Notes, No. 97 (August 2004).
                    Washburn, Jeff, Tales from Indiana High School Basketball (
                            Champaign
                        , Ill.: Sports Publishers, 2004).
                    "
                            Whitley
                         County Politics," 
                            Whitley
                         County Historical Society Bulletin, 52 (September 2004).
                    
                    Whitney, Karen, "Building Community One Building at a Time: The Building Names Project," Black History News & Notes, No. 99 (February 2005).
                    Willis, Wanda Lou, More Haunted Hoosier Trails (
                            Cincinnati, Ohio
                        : Emmis Books, 2004).
                    Wissing, Douglas, "Indiana and Tibet: A Century of Connection," Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, 16 (Spring 2004).
                    Wooley Fred J., "Forever Young: 80 Years," Outdoor Indiana, 69
                        (January/February 2004). [Indiana Department of Natural Resources’ naturalist service, which
                        began in 1923.]
                
            
        
        
            
            
            
            
        
    
