
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 79, Issue 3, pages 209-284. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:79+issue:3+year:1983&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Paul G. Hoffman, Studebaker, and the Car Culture
            
                    Alan R. Raucher
                    ∗
                
            Almost from its earliest days the automobile has been an object of both special American affection
                    and controversy.1 Profoundly affecting nearly all segments of society and
                    changing lifestyles in so many ways, the system that combined private cars and public roads has
                    raised important and still unresolved questions. Are private cars preferable to other forms of
                    transportation, such as railroads and streetcars? If Americans are to rely on cars rather than mass
                    transit, are the cars properly designed and built? What kinds of governmental policies can best
                    protect the public interest? These are no idle questions, especially for automakers.
            During the early twentieth century, mounting traffic congestion and accidents led local and state
                    governments to act. In addition to considering the kinds of streets and highways that could
                    accommodate the automobile, governments imposed maximum speed limits and other restrictions aimed at
                    improving traffic safety. At the same time, some critics charged that manufacturers were responsible
                    for the accident toll because they produced unsafe cars. Automakers feared that such talk would
                    cause consumer resistance and harmful governmental interference. Nevertheless, until the depression
                    of the 1930s, car ownership within the 
                        United States
                     increased. Road building and other governmental action, often promoted by the 
                  
                     ∗ Alan R. Raucher is associate professor of history, 
                                Wayne
                             State University, 
                        Detroit,
                                    Michigan
                     . Research for this
                            article was supported by grants from 
                                Wayne
                             State, the Harry S. Truman Library Institute, and the American Philosophical
                            Society.
                  
                     1 John B. Rae, The Road and the Car in American Life (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1971); James J. Flink, The Car Culture (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1975); and B. Bruce-Briggs, The War against the
                            Automobile (
                                New York
                            , 1977), provide the fullest and best examinations of the controversy, though
                            their value judgments differ.
               
                     manufacturers themselves, seemingly reduced public criticism of
                    the automotive industry.2
            
            With the advent of the Great Depression, however, the industry faced renewed threats. Economic
                    failure lowered the reputation of business and made Americans more willing to scrutinize their
                    economic system. Some critics charged that the oligopolistic nature of the automotive industry, with
                    its lack of meaningful competition, produced among manufacturers similar policies regarding car
                    designs and prices. Others blamed the presence of competition for irrational marketing policies,
                    including annual model changes.3 The emerging consumer movement, while largely
                    ignoring the broadest political and philosophical issues, focused critical perspective on the cars
                    themselves. Evaluating car designs, prices, and operating costs, consumer advocates asked why
                    America did not have safer, cheaper, and more fuel efficient cars.
            Within the consumer movement during the 1930s, the chief critic of the automotive industry, Dewey
                    Palmer, charged that automobile manufacturers' policies abused the buying public and the
                    national economy. According to Palmer, the technical supervisor at Consumers Union, the industry
                    exploited the average man's desire for status by providing a delusion of grandeur.
                    Automotive advertising and planned obsolescence conditioned Americans to desire excessive power and
                    speed, flashy eye appeal, and conspicuous display. The industry did virtually nothing to improve the
                    safety of its products or the economy of operation. Instead of safe and economical transportation,
                    the automotive industry contributed to the "inevitable depletion of our crude oil
                    supply" and left large portions of the population unable to afford new cars.4
            
            Automakers, of course, attempted to defend themselves from such criticism. Even before World War I
                    industry leaders 
                  
                     2 Flink, Car Culture, 159–60.
                  
                     3 Joel W. Eastman, "Styling Vs. Safety: The American
                            Automobile Industry and the Development of Automotive Safety, 1900–1966"
                            (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, University of 
                                Florida
                            , 1973), vii.
                  
                     4 Dewey H. Palmer, "If You Buy a Car," New Republic,
                            LXXXVI (April 22, 1936), 304–306; Palmer,
                            "Automobiles—Model 1937," ibid.,
                            LXXXIX (December 30, 1936), 261–63; Palmer,
                            "Automobiles of 1938," ibid.,
                            XCIII (January 4, 1938), 242–44; Dewey H. Palmer and Laurence
                            Crooks, Millions on Wheels (
                                New York
                            , 1938); Palmer, "Automobiles of 1939," New
                                Republic, XCVII (December 28, 1938), 222–25. Dewey H. Palmer to Laurence
                            Crooks, December 17, 1958, Colston E. Warne Collection (Center for the Study of the Consumer
                            Movement, 
                                Mount Vernon
                            , N.Y.); E.D. Kennedy, The Automobile Industry: The Coming of Age
                                of Capitalism's Favorite Child (
                                New York
                            , 1941), 231, 318–21.
               
                     responded to public concern about traffic congestion and
                    accidents. They started, for example, what they called a balanced traffic safety program. Under the
                    slogan of the "Three E's"—education, enforcement, and
                    engineering—automakers focused on driver behavior and road conditions. After the war they
                    claimed that greater safety could be achieved through a uniform vehicle code, safe driving classes,
                    and standard licensing of drivers, as well as more and better-planned streets and highways.5 By their organized efforts automakers helped to win endorsement for such
                    policies from the federal government and in the process undoubtedly helped to divert public
                    criticism from their own policies.
            When automakers did discuss basic policies regarding car designs and prices, they usually emphasized
                    their commitment both to high quality and to consumer sovereignty. According to that argument,
                    success came to those who offered, within commercial limitations, what consumers really wanted.
                    Prices increased because manufacturers responded to demand by improving their products and thus car
                    values. Even Nash, a small independent manufacturer, operated according to the slogan
                    "Build up to a standard, not down to a price."6 At General
                    Motors, which had been built during the 1920s upon the strategy of multiple models and annual
                    changes, one executive blandly confessed that the "automobile industry recognizes the
                    obsolescence factor in business and incorporates it in its every day practice."7
            
            By employing the strategy of obsolescence some automakers, most notably General Motors, enjoyed
                    continuing profits despite the Depression, but economic conditions during the 1930s suggested to
                    others within the industry the need for change.8 Manufacturers who did not do
                    well when new car sales fell had strong incentives to innovate. Thus, during the Depression decade
                    and up to the end of World War II, crisis within the industry created the opportunity and the
                    impetus, perhaps the last for some time, to alter marketing strategies. In any case this was a
                    period when the car culture underwent a severe test.
            
               
                  5 Eastman, "Styling Vs. Safety," 160–63,
                        166–68. Christy Borth, Mankind on the Move: The Story of Highways (
                            Washington
                        , 1969), 284.
               
                  6 Tom Mahoney, The Story of George Romney: Builder, Salesman,
                            Crusader (
                            New York
                        , 1960), 141.
               
                  7 Ralph A. Richardson and Harper Leech, The Story of the
                            Automobile Industry (
                            Chicago
                        , 1940), 91–92
               
                  8 U.S., Federal Trade Commission, Report on the Motor Vehicle
                            Industry (
                            Washington
                        , 1939), 795–823.
            
            
            One industry leader especially sensitive to the complex issues involved in success for the automotive
                    business was Paul G. Hoffman. The son of George Delos Hoffman, a prosperous and prominent inventor,
                    corporate executive, and entrepreneur from 
                        Chicago
                    , Paul Hoffman attended the University of 
                        Chicago
                     for one year before beginning to sell cars in 1909. Highly successful as a salesman and
                    sales manager, he started his own Studebaker dealership in 
                        Los Angeles
                     ten years later. By 1925, when he became Studebaker's vice-president in charge
                    of sales, he was a thirty-four-year-old millionaire. He had also established a local reputation in 
                        Los Angeles
                     as a businessman with broad vision and a strong sense of civic responsibility. Later,
                    as president of Studebaker and especially as administrator of the Marshall Plan following World War
                    II, Paul Hoffman won acclaim for statesmanship of the first rank. After 1950 he put his ability to
                    good use as the first president of the Ford Foundation and after 1958 as the director of the United
                    Nations Special Fund for economic development. For about half a century, until his retirement in
                    1972 at the age of eighty, Hoffman stood as a champion of technological progress, economic growth,
                    and democratic freedoms.9
            
            Whatever his higher motives, Hoffman never pretended that his involvement in civic affairs was
                    exclusively altruistic. Starting in the 1930s he forcefully preached, by word and deed, a managerial
                    philosophy of enlightened self-interest. He always assumed that the profit motive and corporate
                    pursuit of economic gain, when properly informed, were compatible with the public welfare.10 His own involvement in civic affairs in part grew out of his desire to create
                    a healthy economic climate in which car sales thrived, and through that involvement he enhanced the
                    visibility of Studebaker, which was struggling to survive bankruptcy after 1933, as well as his own
                    reputation.
            Neither typical of the industry nor a complete maverick, Hoffman stood well within the mainstream of
                    the industry's policies and views. He also clearly operated with the grain of American
                    culture, not against it. He built his business career on a firm understanding of American
                    preferences for privacy and convenience as exemplified by the single-family home and 
                  
                     9 Crane Haussamen, The Story of Paul G. Hoffman
                            (Santa Barbara, 1966) is a brief and uncritical biography prepared for the Center for the
                            Study of Democratic Institutions.
                  
                     10 See, for example, Paul G. Hoffman, "The Corporation as a
                            Social Instrument," in Bronson Batchelor, ed., The New Outlook in
                                Business (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 105–16.
               
                    
                    
                  PAUL G. HOFFMAN.
                  Courtesy Discovery Hall Museum, 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana.
               
                     the privately owned car. He never doubted his observation in
                    1929 that the car was and would always remain "America's greatest plaything and
                    greatest necessity." As a top automotive executive and, almost by default, the
                    industry's "apostle of safety," he addressed the major questions raised
                    about "America's great personal transportation system."11 In two areas Hoffman played a major role in the automotive industry's effort to
                    shape the car culture. He promoted what he called sound urban development based on highway
                    construction, and he provided the managerial leadership that determined Studebaker's
                    innovative approach to car design. His experience in both areas indicates that even with a
                    philosophy of enlightened self-interest he could not resolve the complex issues surrounding the
                    automobile.
            For car sales to thrive, Hoffman realized, motorists needed adequate roads. During the early 1920s,
                    while he was a car dealer in 
                        Los Angeles
                    , booming sales created chaotic traffic congestion. The increasing number of automobiles
                    on city streets raised public concern about safety and briefly led city officials to ban downtown
                    parking. Hoffman quickly recognized the threat to car sales. In an effort to combat the problem he
                    became chairman of the road committee of the 
                        Los Angeles
                     Chamber of Commerce and helped to organize the Traffic Commission of 
                        Los Angeles
                    , a nongovernmental body on which he served as president. Hoffman insisted that sound
                    policies had to be based on scientific study of the facts; therefore, the Traffic Commission hired
                    the well-known firm of planning experts headed by Frederick Law Olmsted, Jr. According to the
                    resulting report, which Hoffman delivered to city officials, traffic safety in 
                        Los Angeles
                     could be improved by properly planned streets. Olmsted's firm urged the city
                    to widen existing streets, separate some intersections by grade, and expand construction into
                    outlying areas for future needs.12 Such policies of course stood to boost car
                    sales.
            
               
                  11 Paul G. Hoffman and James H. Greene, Marketing Used
                        Cars (
                            New York
                        , 1929), 179; Hoffman, "America's Highways—New
                        Frontiers," Roads and Streets, LXXXIII (January, 1940),
                        35–36.
               
                  12
                        
                            Los Angeles
                         Chamber of Commerce to Paul G. Hoffman, June 2, 1923, Box 50, Paul G. Hoffman
                        Papers (Harry S. Truman Library, Independence, Mo.); Paul G. Hoffman, "The Traffic
                        Commission of 
                            Los Angeles
                        —Its Work on the Traffic Problem," Annals of the
                            American Academy of Political and Social Science, CXVI (November, 1924),
                        246–50. See Mark S. Foster, "The Model-T, the Hard Sell, and 
                            Los Angeles
                        's Urban Growth: The Decentralization of 
                            Los Angeles
                         during the 1920s," Pacific Historical Review, XLIV
                        (November, 1975), 459–84.
            
            
            When Hoffman became a vice-president of Studebaker in 1925, he expanded his effort to promote
                    scientific study of traffic problems. He knew that public statements of good intent did not improve
                    safety or win public approval; so, in 1926, he persuaded 
                        Harvard
                     to establish the Bureau for Street Traffic Research, financed with $10,000 a
                    year from the Studebaker Corporation and named for Studebaker's president, Albert Russel
                    Erskine. Free from direct interference by Hoffman or other automakers, the bureau conducted serious
                    research on accidents and provided a year's academic instruction in traffic control for
                    respresentatives from city and state engineering departments.13 Such activity,
                    of course, also helped to forge an alliance of vested interests among government highway
                    departments, academic safety experts, and the automotive industry. Hoffman himself participated in
                    the national conferences on street and highway safety called by secretaries of commerce Herbert
                    Hoover and Robert Lamont.14
            
            Like other industry spokesmen, Hoffman emphasized driver behavior as a key to safety. Vigorous law
                    enforcement aimed at the minority of reckless, drunk, or other accident-prone drivers could, he
                    claimed, substantially lower the accident rate. With this quite sensible approach he hoped to head
                    off controls that could retard car sales. The intent of such enforcement, according to Hoffman,
                    should be to educate drivers about safety, not to punish violators or to raise revenues. Hoffman
                    also did not want states to impose absolute speed limits or to require speed governors on cars.15
            
            Ironically, the apostle of safety was also an apostle of speed. During the late 1920s and early
                    1930s, while Hoffman was Studebaker's vice-president in charge of sales, the
                    company's advertising emphasized speed performance, including the success of its engines in
                    racing cars.16 Hoffman personally insisted that the American public demanded
                    speed as well as safety and that reliable capability for speed and acceleration actually contributed
                    to safety. In any case, he suggested, speed was one measure of civilization. Dr. Louis I. Dublin, a
                    New 
                  
                     13 Hoffman to President and Fellows of 
                                Harvard
                             University, June 16, 1926, Folder 508, Abbott L. Lowell Papers (
                                Harvard
                             University Archives, 
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass.); Hoffman to A. Lawrence Lowell, April 25, 1928, ibid.
                  
                  
                     14
                            Automobile Topics, XCV (September 28, 1929), 648.
                  
                     15 Hoffman, "The Traffic Commission of 
                                Los Angeles
                            ," Automobile Topics, XCV (August 31, 1929), 282; ibid. (October 5, 1929), 738.
                  
                     16 "Less Speed and More Safety," Literary Digest, CXIV (August 20, 1932), 27.
               
                    
                    
                  PAUL G. HOFFMAN COMPANY, HOLLYWOOD BRANCH, LOS ANGELES, 1925
               
                    
                  PAUL G. HOFFMAN COMPANY, LOS ANGELES, C. 1930
                  Courtesy Discovery Hall Museum, 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana.
               
                     York insurance statistician, strongly denounced as
                    "outrageous" Hoffman's comment concerning the relationship between speed
                    and civilization. The Studebaker vice-president retaliated by ridiculing 
                        Dublin
                    's outlandish notion of an absolute speed limit of 35 miles per hour. Such a
                    proposal, he pointed out, would merely generate news without anyone taking it seriously,
                    particularly in a country of vast distances with people always in a hurry.17
                    During the early 1930s, however, automakers decided to eliminate references to top speed from their
                        advertising.18
            
            By 1930 the Depression had created other obstacles for Hoffman's safety program. Street and
                    highway construction, though supported by some as public works projects to provide jobs, became more
                    difficult to finance. States greatly increased taxes on gasoline, making driving costs much higher,
                    and many states diverted those revenues to nonhighway uses.19 Within the
                    automotive industry support for traffic safety fell as sales fell. Hoffman realized that Studebaker
                    could not afford, virtually alone, to support the Bureau for Street Traffic Research. As a director
                    of the Automobile Manufacturers Association and chairman of its Traffic Safety Committee, he tried
                    unsuccessfully to get other automakers to assume the financial burden.20
            
            If the automobile manufacturers supported safety research, Hoffman argued, the industry would benefit
                    from the resulting substantial improvement in traffic congestion and would receive favorable
                    publicity as well. According to Hoffman, who still owned a dealership in 
                        Los Angeles
                    , lack of street facilities, parking, and proper traffic regulation created sales
                    resistance. In urban areas many who could afford to own cars did not do so because commuting daily
                    by public transportation was more convenient than driving. He nevertheless rejected the pessimistic
                    conclusions of some industry observers that the car market had reached saturation. He claimed that
                    even during the Depression car sales would increase if traffic conditions improved. The future of
                    the industry depended, Hoffman averred, on proper traffic safeguards and, even more importantly,
                        
                  
                     17
                            Automobile Topics, XC (June 2, 1928), 308; ibid., XCV
                            (August 31, 1929), 282; ibid., XCV (October 5, 1929), 738; Hoffman to
                            Louis I. Dublin, October [?], 1929, Box 150, Hoffman Papers.
                  
                     18 Eastman, "Styling Vs. Safety," 127,
                            130–31, 148.
                  
                     19 Mark Rose, Interstate: Express Highway Politics,
                                1941–1956 (Lawrence, Kans., 1979), 9–10.
                  
                     20 Hoffman to Roy D. Chapin, April 30, 1934, Box 27, Roy Chapin Papers (
                                Michigan
                             Historical Collections, University of 
                        Michigan, Ann
                        Arbor
                     ).
               
                     on highway construction to reduce congestion and other unsafe
                        conditions.21
            
            The Automobile Manufacturers Association responded slowly to Hoffman's prodding; even his
                    Traffic Safety Committee approved a few publicity releases without doing much else. Then, in 1935, a
                    sensationalistic article on traffic fatalities appeared in Reader's
                    Digest and generated widespread public discussion when civic organizations distributed millions
                    of reprints. Although the article focused on bad driving as the chief cause of accidents, it did
                    refer to the car as the "deadliest missile," and its gory details gave ammunition
                    to those advocating stiffer governmental restrictions on highway use. Hoffman quickly responded to
                    that threat by asking the Automobile Manufacturers Association to support a major safety program.
                    Fearing the adverse impact of such publicity on legislation and sales, the trade association
                    instructed Hoffman's committee to study the problem.22
            
            Hoffman conferred with Walter Pyke Johnson, 
                        Washington
                     representative and vice-president of the Automobile Manufacturers Association, and
                    other members of the Traffic Safety Committee. They agreed that action was needed. The entire
                    industry, not just the manufacturers, had to finance a major effort to improve traffic safety.
                    Hoffman recommended that the industry leave the actual operations of the safety program to
                    independent experts and avoid publicity or credit for itself. The return on investment would come
                    when accident rates, and thus adverse comment, declined.23
            
            In January, 1936, the Automobile Manufacturers Association launched its first serious highway safety
                    program. Budgeted at $450,000 the experimental project received a large personal
                    contribution and a strong endorsement from Alfred P. Sloan, Jr., of General Motors. The trade
                    association chose Hoffman to oversee the program and to disperse grants to specialists in the safety
                    field. Within a few months industry leaders, though unwilling to devote their own time, concluded
                    that Hoffman's program warranted permanent support. They 
                  
                     21 Hoffman to Chapin, January 25, February 19, April 30, 1934, ibid.; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, January 7, 1934; Paul G. Hoffman, "Why the Automobile
                            Industry Should Believe in City Planning," City Planning, VI
                            (April, 1930), 96.
                  
                     22 Joseph Chamberlain Furnas, "And Sudden Death,"
                                Reader's Digest, XXVII (August, 1935), 31–36;
                            Eastman, "Styling Vs. Safety," 178–80, 228–29.
                  
                     23 Hoffman, speech to Automobile Safety Foundation, October 4, 1962,
                            Box 141, Hoffman Papers.
               
                     thus created the Automobile Safety Foundation (ASF) and named
                    him its president.24
            
            In his new capacity Hoffman argued that the industry's balanced safety program was
                    succeeding. Industry critics, citing statistics calculated on car registrations, had reported
                    frightfully high accident rates. Hoffman countered with statistics calculated on mileage driven to
                    show that the rates were actually declining.25 Further success, according to
                    Hoffman, required an "enlightened and organized public opinion" willing to pay for
                    massive highway construction. At a time when 
                        Germany
                     had just created the first national expressway system, he declared that America needed
                    100,000 miles of "accident proof highways. Such a system, a challenge for the American
                    spirit of enterprise, by Hoffman's calculation would cost $57 billion, would
                    take twenty-five years to build, and could be financed over forty-three years.26
            
            Those advocates who linked safety and solution of traffic hazards with highway construction were very
                    persuasive in the late 1930s. State highway departments and local politicians, as well as the
                    automotive industry, agreed that an expanded highway system could help solve traffic problems.
                    Highway construction, particularly of expressways, could create for motorists a traffic utopia.
                    Congestion and safety hazards could be reduced, while employment in the construction industry could
                    be stimulated. The prospect that such a program might receive federal financing made it especially
                        attractive.27
            
            
               
                  24 According to the Federal Trade Commission's Report on the Motor Vehicle Industry, 79–83, the Automobile Manufacturers
                        Association (AMA) made the decision by December, 1935. See 
                            New York
                        
                        Times, January 22, 1936, on Hoffman's interview with Boake Carter,
                        WABC, January 21, 1936. In a letter of June 7, 1937, Alfred Reeves (AMA) thanked Hoffman for
                        working on a situation that worried the whole industry. Reeves to Hoffman, June 7, 1937, Box 29,
                        Hoffman Papers. Eastman, "Styling Vs. Safety," 185, pointed out that critics
                        claimed that the industry carefully picked grant recipients from the "safety
                        establishment."
               
                  25
                        Automobile Topics, CXXXII (October 31, 1938). Arthur W. Stevens, in Highway Safety and Automobile Styling (
                            Boston
                        , 1941), 31, 148–51, praised the Automobile Safety Foundation but
                        criticized. Hoffman's deceptive use of statistics based on mileage estimated from
                        gasoline consumption. Eastman, in "Styling Vs. Safety," 201–203,
                        showed that even Hoffman admitted the lack of reliable data for car usage.
               
                  26 Paul G. Hoffman, Seven Roads to Safety: A Program to
                            Reduce Automobile Accidents (
                            New York
                        , 1939), 28; 
                            New York
                        
                        Times, November 13, 1937; Hoffman tried to have newspapers promote highway
                        construction as a safety measure. See Hoffman to Fred Gaepner, Jr., of the 
                            Detroit
                         News, May 2., 1938, Box 1, Blair Moody Papers (
                            Michigan
                         Historical Collections).
               
                  27 Rose, Interstate, 9; Mark S. Foster, From Streetcar to Superhighway: American City Planners and Urban Transportation,
                            1900–1940 (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1981), 127–30.
            
            
            Some urban planners and political reformers saw still another function for highway construction. In
                    the same spirit that built the New Deal's greenbelt towns, they would use highway
                    construction for social and economic regeneration. City slums with their out-moded business
                    sections, deteriorating housing, and inadequate transportation would be replaced by modern low-cost
                    housing and modern facilities. Even the enormously popular General Motors Futurama exhibit at the 
                        New York
                     World's Fair in 1939 suggested that construction of expressways would create
                    opportunities for new city architecture that would provide healthy environments of space and
                        light.28
            
            Though Hoffman supported highway construction, he criticized some of the schemes for urban
                    regeneration discussed in the late 1930s. The ideal solution to America's housing and
                    transportation needs, he felt, was sound city planning based on what the American people really
                        wanted.29 Back in the 1920s Studebaker president Albert Erskine had praised
                    suburbs for strengthening American families.30 Hoffman himself appreciated
                    suburban living; he had grown up in a suburb of 
                        Chicago
                    , and his family had settled in a suburb of 
                        Los Angeles
                    . When the census of 1940 appeared, he pointed to the growth of suburbs as further proof
                    that Americans preferred to live outside overcrowded and expensive cities.31
            
            Hoffman's notion of sound planning called for city slums to be replaced by safe freeways and
                    parking facilities. Slum residents and workers would be relocated in low-cost housing built in rural
                    areas where land cost less. The proper balance between space and population density could be
                    achieved, he thought, by 1961, the same year that General Motors had envisioned the advent of
                    utopia. Freeways would then allow people to commute safely and efficiently by private cars between
                    where they wanted to live, in suburbs, and where they worked, in cities.32
            
            Along with many contemporary road engineers and urban planners, Hoffman suggested that an expressway
                    system would foster social cohesion. By reducing geographic barriers that 
                  
                     28 Rose, Interstate, 9; Foster, From
                                Streetcar to Superhighway, 132–50. See Flink, Car
                            Culture, 182–83, for a critique of the New Deal's failure to
                            question central values, including automobility and suburbia.
                  
                     29 Paul G. Hoffman, with Neil Clark, "America Goes to
                            Town," Saturday Evening Post, CCXI (April 29, 1939),
                            8–9, 30–35; Hoffman, "American Highways in 1961,"
                            November 14, 1941, Box 103, Hoffman Papers.
                  
                     30 Albert Russel Erskine, "Monogamy and the Motor
                            Car," North American Review, CCXXVIII (August, 1929),
                            145–51. See also Flink, Car Culture, 145.
                  
                     31 Hoffman, "American Highways in 1961."
                  
                     32 Hoffman, with Clark, "America Goes to
                        Town."
               
                     separated and isolated people, it would make community
                    activities more accessible and thus would contribute to progress, higher standards of living, and
                    even national unity. Not incidently, an expanded highway system would also revitalize the car
                    market, which had sagged during the Depression, for suburbs had begun to depend more upon
                    automobiles than upon streetcars for transportation.33
            
            After the Depression, when Americans began to buy more cars, Hoffman returned to his emphasis on
                    highway construction as a solution to traffic congestion. The connection between the automotive
                    industry's traffic safety program and its promotion of highway construction, present from
                    the creation of the Automobile Safety Foundation, had become clearer in 1942. In that year the ASF
                    broadened its charter to include support for "development on a sound financial and
                    engineering basis of modern street and highway facilities." Hoffman, the
                    industry's "guiding spirit" of traffic safety, remained as chairman of
                    the ASF, but he passed the presidency to Pyke Johnson, a longtime highway booster.34 By 1944 officials of the Automobile Safety Foundation were alerting Hoffman that accidents
                    and congestion were pushing traffic safety back into the limelight. Johnson, of course, hoped to
                    avoid governmental restrictions that could hurt the industry; accordingly, the ASF suggested that
                    highway construction could solve the traffic problem and also give a boost to the postwar
                        economy.35
            
            During the postwar era Hoffman promoted his ideas in public forums. At President Harry S.
                    Truman's Highway Safety Conference, for example, he emphasized driver education and highway
                    construction as solutions to traffic problems. Rising congestion and accidents, he declared,
                    resulted from traffic volume and density beyond road capacity. What America still needed was a
                    system of modern expressways. Never losing sight of the profit incentive, Hoffman told car dealers
                    that they had to back such a program or lose customers. If congestion and 
                  
                     33 Hoffman, "America's Highways—New
                            Frontiers," 35–36; Hoffman and 
                                Greene
                            , in Marketing Used Cars, 137, noted that workers living in
                            new suburbs were dependent on cars for transportation and would be potential buyers of used
                            cars. See Foster, From Streetcar to Superhighway, especially
                            91–115, for a well-argued analysis of city planners' generally
                            optimistic views regarding automobiles as desirable urban transportation before World War
                            II.
                  
                     34 Borth, Mankind on the Move, 284; Eastman,
                            "Styling Vs. Safety," 180, 187.
                  
                     35 Donald Kennedy (ASF) to Hoffman, January 25, 1944, Box 105, Hoffman
                            Papers; Walter Pyke Johnson (ASF) to Hoffman, August 8, 1944, Box 106, ibid.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  PAUL G. HOFFMAN, PRESIDENT, AUTOMOBILE SAFETY COMMITTEE FOUNDATION, AND BOAKE CARTER, NEWS COMMENTATOR, 1936
                  Courtesy Discovery Hall Museum, 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana.
               
                     lack of parking, especially in urban areas, were not solved,
                    people would stop commuting to work by car. So much did Hoffman believe in the benefits of highway
                    construction that during the mid–1950s, when no longer active in the automotive industry,
                    he personally lobbied on behalf of the federal interstate system.36
            
            Despite the automotive industry's success in diverting public concern over safety into
                    support for highway construction, questions about car design and economy could not be entirely
                    avoided. Hoffman personally addressed such issues within the management of Studebaker. During the
                    mid–1920s, while a vice-president of the corporation, he fought against annual model
                    changes as illogical, costly, "artificial obsoletion" and argued for cars that
                    were practical and economical.37 During the Depression Studebaker made a serious
                    effort to use economy of operation as a sales argument; thus, the company pioneered in and
                    advertised new technology to reduce fuel consumption and frequency of lubrication. Hoffman himself
                    believed that the nation needed smaller, more fuel-efficient cars, perhaps even four-seaters, as
                    families became smaller.38
            
            Hoffman realized, however, that commercial realities required compromises. As did other industry
                    spokesmen, he claimed that consumer sovereignty dictated what the market offered. In a modern
                    society of abundance and "discretionary spending power," the public could stop
                    buying when products lacked appeal; therefore, business had to adopt policies that constantly
                    induced people to spend. Market research, which Studebaker employed by the mid-1980s, provided
                    manufacturers with clues about public preferences. With those clues automobile companies could use
                    advertisements and innovative industrial design to make the public dissatisfied with old products
                    and eager for new ones that worked better and looked 
                  
                     36 Hoffman, speech to Joint Interim Committee on Highways, Streets and
                            Bridges, 
                                San Francisco
                            , February 25, 1946, Box 109, Hoffman Papers; Paul G. Hoffman,
                            "Automotive Transport Paces America's Progress," Traffic Quarterly, I (April, 1947), 93–102; Hoffman, "The
                            Dealer's Stake in Highway Safety," speech to National Automobile Dealers
                            Association, January 27, 1948, Box 113, Hoffman Papers; Senator Edward Thye to Hoffman, May
                            28, 1956, Box 73, ibid.
                  
                  
                     37 Hoffman to Albert Russel Erskine, February 4, 1925, Box 150,
                            Hoffman Papers.
                  
                     38 U.S., Congress, Temporary National Economic Committee, Investigation of Concentration of Economic Power, 76 Cong., 2 Sess., Part 21,
                            December 4–8, 1939, "War and Prices" (
                                Washington
                            , 1940), 11181–224; "Studebaker's Small
                            Car," Fortune, XIX (April, 1939), 88.
               
                     better.39 Critics such as Palmer, of
                    course, felt that such corporate policies abused consumers.
            According to Hoffman, American automakers met their responsibilities, within commercial limitations,
                    by offering the safest cars possible. Ignoring the failure to adopt European improvements, such as
                    monocoque—all-welded single-unit—body construction, Hoffman pointed to
                    American improvements of the 1920s and 1930s. All-steel closed bodies, lower centers of gravity,
                    four-wheel hydraulic brakes, wider tires, easier shifting and steering, safety glass, better
                    mirrors, and windshield wipers proved that manufacturers cared about safety.40
                    Studebaker's chief engineer, Delmar G. "Barney" Roos, who led in the
                    development of more rigid bodies in 1934 models, urged the entire industry to cooperate with
                    agencies of state governments to make cars safer.41 When, in 1937, Chrysler
                    redesigned car interiors, including dashboards, to reduce hazards, Studebaker and a few other
                    manufacturers quickly followed that example. As president of Studebaker, Hoffman operated on the
                    assumption that safety features actually helped sell cars.42
            
            The 1939 Studebaker Champion best demonstrated how Hoffman's concerns about safety and
                    economy blended with his sense of commercial realities. Of conventional size and price, the Champion
                    demonstrated improved fuel efficiency through weight reduction. The entire car was designed around
                    the passenger compartment to provide greater safety, and it featured a more rigid frame and lower
                    body to increase stability and ease of handling. One promotional film even showed the Champion being
                    driven off a ramp over the hood of another car with no resulting damage.43
            
            Industry observers immediately praised the Champion's design. Fortune
                    speculated that it might start a trend back to a real American "people's
                    car," something that disappeared in the 1920s with the Model T. Consumers Union rated the
                    Champion with overdrive a "best buy" and praised the simple design that 
                  
                     39
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, October 16, 1947.
                  
                     40
                            Automobile Topics, CI (February 7, 1931), 4; Paul G. Hoffman,
                            "Drivers and Roads Lag Behind Cars of Today," 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, November 3, 1935; Hoffman and Delmar G. Roos,
                            "Safety—A Prime Factor in Motor Car Design," 1936, Box 100,
                            Hoffman Papers; Hoffman, "Highway Safety," speech to 
                                New York
                             Advertising Club, October 27, 1937, ibid.; Eastman,
                            "Styling Vs. Safety," 180. 187.
                  
                     41 "Less Speed and More Safety," 27.
                  
                     42 Eastman, "Styling Vs. Safety," 230.
                  
                     43
                            
                                New York
                             Times, March 14, 1939.
               
                    
                    
                  1939 STUDEBAKER CHAMPION
                  
               
                    
                  1947 STUDEBAKER CHAMPION
                  
                  Reproduced from Studebaker Corporation, 100 Years on the Road (
                                South Bend
                            , Ind., 1952), 19.
               
                     would facilitate easy repair. Palmer, usually a sharp critic of
                    the industry, reported that the Champion had the best all-around characteristics in the low-priced
                    field. He singled out in particular its ability to provide both adequate performance and economy.44
            
            Although it received critical acclaim and market success, the Champion did not set a trend toward
                    significantly cheaper cars. In fact, when sales lagged briefly in 1940, Studebaker followed a policy
                    common in the industry. The company increased the car's power and weight and freshened the
                    line with deluxe two-toned bodies and harmonized two-toned upholstery. Prices, of course, also
                    increased. The strategy apparently succeeded, for overall sales during 1940 were even better than in
                    the previous year.45
            
            Attempts by other automakers to offer low-priced and more fuel-efficient cars during the late 1930s
                    confirmed the judgments of Studebaker's market research. The Bantam and the Crosley,
                    inexpensive "midget" models built by new companies, failed to sell and suggested
                    that Americans would not buy the kind of small cars sold in Europe. Nor, apparently, would the
                    American consumer buy conventional-sized models that were stripped down to provide more fuel economy
                    at a cheaper price. In 1937 both Ford and Willys Overland introduced such cars, which were
                    underpowered and lacked even hydraulic brakes. Both failed. Nevertheless, Willys's chief
                    engineer, Barney Roos, who had left Studebaker in 1936 and who later designed the Jeep, continued to
                    believe in the commercial feasibility of a car designed for cheap transportation with reasonable
                    comfort and safety.46
            
            George Mason, president of Nash after 1936, had a similar vision. A motorcycle enthusiast, 
                        Mason
                     believed that a small, light-weight car with a low retail price and low operating costs
                    could provide the economical transportation Americans needed. 
                  
                     44 "Studebaker's Light Car,"
                            86–89, 144ff; "The Studebaker Champion," Consumers
                                Union Reports, IV (August, 1939), 3; Dewey H. Palmer, "Automobiles of
                            1940," New Republic, C (November 29, 1939), 160–62; Palmer,
                            "Automobiles of 1941," ibid., CIII (December 3, 1941),
                            891–93.
                  
                     45 Minutes of Board of Directors of Studebaker, March 22, 1940, vol.
                            IV, p. 421, May 24, 1940, vol. IV, p. 443, Studebaker Papers (Discovery Hall Museum, 
                                South Bend
                            , Ind.).
                  
                     46 Kennedy, Automobile Industry, 309; Harold Katz,
                                The Decline of Competition in the Automobile Industry,
                            1920–1940 (
                                New York
                            , 1977), 178–79, 195–96, 202–203;
                            "Willys-Overland," Fortune, XVIII (July, 1938),
                            38–43, 95, 98; Christy Borth, Masters of Mass Production (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1945), 224–26; 
                                New York
                             Times, January 16, 1938.
               
                     Instead of developing a significantly cheaper car, however,
                    Nash, in 1940, followed Studebaker's strategy of offering greater fuel economy in a
                    conventionally priced car. While Studebaker achieved economy mainly by reducing the weight of the
                    engine and transmission, Nash introduced monocoque construction. Used in Europe since the late
                    1920s, the all-welded single-unit body provided greater strength and durability with lighter weight
                    than did conventional bolted-together body and chassis. With that change Nash increased its sales to
                    second among independents, behind only Studebaker.47
            
            The modest gains made by Studebaker and Nash, while not based on radical departures, did reveal the
                    potential for innovation within the automotive industry. Even with the end of the recession in the
                    late 1930s, manufacturers still faced a depressed economy and limited market. Many Americans simply
                    could not afford to buy the kinds of new cars available in the 
                        United States
                    . Some observers felt that, for the market to expand significantly, manufacturers would
                    have to introduce a substantially different kind of car. As a result, during the late 1930s and
                    early 1940s, speculation grew as to the possibility of a new car for the common man. The biggest
                    obstacle to the creation of a safe, streamlined, fuel-efficient car that would sell for
                    $400 instead of $600 to $800 appeared to be the high production
                    costs associated with all-steel bodies. A few industrialists, notably Henry Ford and Henry J.
                    Kaiser, supported experiments with new technologies and new materials. Aluminum, magnesium, plywood,
                    plastics, and fiberglass all proved inacceptable because of high costs and technical
                        difficulties.48 Then World War II interrupted car production and the efforts
                    to produce a radically new kind of car.
            Had American family incomes remained depressed and had fuel costs remained high after the war,
                    efforts to produce a safe, cheap car for the common man might have persisted. Economic conditions
                    born out of the war, however, removed incentives for 
                  
                     47 Mahoney, Story of George Romney, 149, 158,
                            199–200.
                  
                     48 "Exit the Dream Car," Newsweek,
                            XXIII (January 24, 1944), 94. Lawrence J. White, The Automobile Industry since
                                1945 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1971), 178–80, demonstrated that the Big Three automotive
                            companies abandoned plans for a cheaper car when they discovered the profitable postwar
                            market for conventional cars; according to White, the oligopolistic nature of the industry
                            inhibited other efforts. Richard M. Langworth, Kaiser-Frazer: The Last
                                Onslaught on 
                                    Detroit
                                
                      (
                                Princeton
                            , 1975), 136, 188; David L. Lewis, The Public Image of Henry Ford:
                                An American Folk Hero and His Company (
                                Detroit
                            , 1976), 283–85, 391–92.
               
                     manufacturers to create a new "people's
                        car."49 Automakers discovered that increased consumer purchasing
                    power led to a sales boom without a radical departure in policies. The car culture thus survived its
                    severest test basically intact.
            Led by Hoffman, Studebaker did, nevertheless, offer the public a boldly innovative low-priced car
                    after the war. With a lower center of gravity, more rigid frame, better brakes, and much better
                    visibility, its 1947 Champion was lighter, more economical, and safer than cars in the same price
                    field produced by the Big Three automotive companies. Chief designers Raymond Loewy, the
                    Parisian-born promoter of streamlining hired by Hoffman in the 1930s, and Virgil M. Exner created
                    this truly distinctive car by fighting the big enemy, weight. At the time, Exner claimed that the
                    average motorist did not want bulky, bulbous, ponderous, elephantine cars that were costly to buy
                    and to operate. For heavy city traffic, where most driving was done, motorists preferred ease of
                    handling and economy achieved by lighter and sleeker cars.50 If sales volume
                    indicated public preferences, then Exner may have been at least partly right. During the postwar
                    boom, Studebaker reached a market share of more than 4 percent.51
            
            For all Hoffman's energy and intelligence in running Studebaker, however, he never entirely
                    resolved major questions about the American automotive industry and the transportation system that
                    it fostered. On one hand he claimed that the competitive market, even within the oligopolistic
                    automotive industry, reflected the genuine preferences of consumers.52 The
                    buyers' judgment was supposed to be the final measure of the public good. On the other hand
                    he often disapproved of what consumers chose. Hoffman argued, for example, that Americans needed
                    both better highways and smaller, less powerful, and safer cars. Under his management Studebaker
                    tried 
                  
                     49 "Overpowered Auto Engines," Consumers' Research Bulletin, XVI (September, 1945), 17. For retail
                            gasoline prices, including taxes, data from Harold M. Fleming, Gasoline Prices
                                and Competition (
                                New York
                            , 1966), 88–89, must be adjusted by the Consumer Price Index; see
                            U.S., Bureau of the Census, Historical Statistics of the 
                                    United States
                                : Colonial Times to 1970 (
                                Washington
                            , 1975), 210–11.
                  
                     50 Virgil M. Exner, "Are Dangerous Curves Ahead?"
                                Automotive Industries, XCIX (December 1, 1948), 45–46. See
                            also Richard M. Langworth, Studebaker: The Postwar Years (Osceola, Wis.,
                            1979), 3; and Jeffrey L. Meickle, Twentieth Century Limited (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1979), 60–67, 104–107.
                  
                     51 White, Automobile Industry since 1945, 291, 293,
                            295.
                  
                     52 Temporary National Economic Committee, Investigation
                                of Concentration of Economic Power, 11181–224.
               
                     to combine that practicality with attractive design to appeal
                    to thoughtful consumers, but during the 1950s cheap gasoline permitted monstrous waste. Thus Exner,
                    the Studebaker designer who had promoted light, sleek, and economical cars during the 1940s, changed
                    his mind; moving to Chrysler, he created the oversized and successful "forward
                    look." Hoffman held true to his convictions. Even in 1956, when Americans were buying
                    larger and more powerful cars, he wrote: "The day is surely coming when a more sensible
                    type of motor car than those now offered will be in great demand."53
            
            The postwar boom in which Studebaker for a time participated also brought with it worse traffic
                    congestion and more accidents. At least until the 1960s the automotive industry managed to escape
                    the kind of scrutiny to which it was subjected during the 1930s. By the 1970s, however, the
                    significant questions that Hoffman and his contemporaries addressed but failed to answer reemerged
                    to plague automakers. Critics blamed the oligopolistic nature of the industry for uneconomical and
                    unsafe cars. Some cited too much competition, others too little, as a cause for high prices, annual
                    model changes, too few safety devices, and other undesirable features.54 In many
                    ways such criticism indicted broader aspects of American culture as well as the automotive industry.
                    General affluence, mass markets, and American democratic values had, after all, made not only
                    conspicuous consumption and wastefulness but also love of technology and mobility prominent social
                    traits long before the advent of cars and car advertisements. The automotive industry, including
                    Hoffman, shrewdly exploited attitudes already widespread in America; it undoubtedly reinforced and
                    expanded such attitudes, but it did not create them. The automobile has without question contributed
                    to metropolitan sprawl, suburban growth, and high energy costs, but only the worst sort of tunnel
                    vision can overlook the American preference for privacy as exemplified by the single-family home and
                    privately owned car. Similarly, the decline of mass transit systems was due primarily to the
                    American commuters' desire for privacy and greater freedom of movement, not to nefarious
                    schemes on the part of automakers to deprive the public of alternative means of transportation.55
            
            
               
                  53 Hoffman to Harry Ferguson, September 21, 1956, Box 65, Hoffman Papers.
               
                  54 Eastman, "Styling Vs. Safety," vii; see also Flink,
                            Car Culture, 191–233, for a summary of criticism of the
                        automobile industry.
               
                  55 Foster, From Streetcar to Superhighway, 127.
            
            
            Hoffman understood very well the popular preferences of the American public. He also always believed
                    that with adequate roads and the right cars on the market Americans would choose what others later
                    called automobility, and he did his best to see that the automotive industry provided the public
                    with the opportunity to make that choice. Whether or not the public's preference for
                    private automobiles is compatible with the best interests of society in the long run, however,
                    remains unresolved.
         
         
         
            Solsberry, Indiana, and the Coming of the Railroad
            
                    Joseph C. Meredith
                    ∗
                
            "The railroad was just… everything!"
            Thus Bernard Glover summarizes his boyhood in Solsberry, Indiana, three quarters of a century ago
                    when the railroad first came to that isolated community in the hills southwest of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .1 Those were heady times, particularly for him since his own father
                    was a foreman on the project, and young Bernard managed to be in the middle of everything that went
                    on.
            The great days of railroading were almost over when in August of 1899 a group of 
                        Indianapolis
                     businessmen organized the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Southern Railway for the purpose of building a line from the Indiana capital, through 
                        Bloomington
                    , to Switz City.2 There it would link up with the Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     Southern and in turn with the mighty 
                        Illinois
                     Central at Effingham, 
                        Illinois
                    .3 A direct line between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the 
                  
                     ∗ Before his retirement in 1982 Joseph C. Meredith was
                            university professor, Governors State University, Park Forest South, 
                                Illinois
                            . He now resides in Solsberry, Indiana.
                  
                     1 Bernard Glover interview, July 21, 1981, in Joseph C. Meredith, Solsberry, Indiana, and the Coming of the Railroad: An Oral History
                            Project (Park Forest South, Ill., 1982), 39. Interviews hereafter cited can be found in
                            this source and are indicated merely by name of interviewee and page numbers.
                  
                     2 The organizers included W.E. Stevenson, David M. Parry, Eli Marvin,
                            and 
                                Cortland
                                Van
                             Camp, and the project clearly enjoyed the blessing and financial support of the 
                                Illinois
                             Central Roadroad (ICRR). Robert W. O'Brien, director of corporate
                            relations, ICRR, to author, April 2, 1982. Lot number I 7.3, 
                                Illinois
                             Central Archives—as described by Carolyn C. Mohr, Guide
                                to the 
                                    Illinois
                                 Central Archives in the Newberry Library (
                                Chicago
                            , 1951), 117—includes articles of incorporation dated August 10,
                            1899; minutes of the board of directors from August 23, 1899, to March 16, 1905; and
                            ordinances of 
                                Bloomfield
                            , Indiana, granting franchises, September 15, 1902, and December 13, 1902.
                  
                     3 The line between Switz City and the Wabash
                            River had been completed in 1880 by the 
                                Bloomfield
                             Railroad Company (consolidated with the 
                        Bedford, Springfield
                     ,
                            Owensburg & 
                                Bloomfield
                             Railroad in 1875). The line from the 
                                Wabash
                             to Effingham was built by the 
                                Cincinnati
                            , Effingham & 
                                Quincy
                             Construction Company in 1878. Both segments were consolidated as the Indiana
                        
               
                     rich coal beds of western 
                        Greene County
                     had long been needed but had somehow never materialized. Short lines were risky
                    ventures at best, and the difficult terrain would make this one particularly costly. Such
                    considerations, however, were not a concern of the local inhabitants around Solsberry. What mattered
                    to them was the immediate effect of the railroad on their daily lives.
            To understand the importance of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Southern to the Solsberry community one needs to know something about the origin of the
                    town, how it prospered for a while, and how its isolation brought it into steep decline by the turn
                    of the century.4 The earliest settlers in the area came from 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        North Carolina
                     in the 1830s and 1840s; they apparently found the hills, ridges, and ravines more
                    familiar and more to their liking than the flat lands beyond, in the western part of what was later
                    carved out as 
                        Greene County
                    .5 Indeed it must have been beautiful, with giant trees, convenient
                    Indian trails, and an abundant supply of game, but ironically the land that had served the Indians
                    so well as a forest home proved sadly infertile. The corn and tobacco planted by the settlers
                    quickly exhausted the soil of the clearings.6 Some families moved on, 
                  and 
                                Illinois
                             Southern on May 11, 1886. In 1899, the year in which the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Southern was organized, the Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                             Southern became the 
                        St. Louis,
                                    Indianapolis
                      & Eastern
                            Railroad. See Lloyd H. Steen, "Rail Transportation in Southern Indiana"
                            (M.A. thesis, Department of Geography, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1950), 61; see also Mohr, Guide to the 
                                    Illinois
                                 Central Archives, 95, 116, 117, 127. Later the 
                        St. Louis, Indianapolis
                      & Eastern Railroad became known simply as
                            the Effingham District of the 
                                Illinois
                             Central Railroad. O'Brien to author, April 2, 1982.
                  
                     4 In a series of oral interviews conducted in 1981 the author
                            attempted to assess the impact of the railroad on Solsberry. As a neighbor of but ten
                            years' standing, he had reason to expect a degree of reticence on the part of the
                            local residents. His first interviews, however, were with 
                                Wayne
                             Sherrow and Avis Sherrow, who proved to be gatekeepers for their neighbors. The
                            Sherrows provided names, reassured their friends that the interviewer could be trusted, and
                            even helped arrange interviews that otherwise might have been declined. Principal among
                            those interviewed were the Sherrows, July 22, 1981; Olive Raper, eighty-six,' whose
                            grandfather and great-grandfather had fought in the Civil War, August 1, 1981; Wallace
                            Sullivan, seventy-six, who as a youth had worked on the railroad, August 7, 1981; and
                            Bernard Glover, eighty-two, whose mass of clippings, photographs, and documents confirmed
                            much of what was learned from the others, July 21, 1981. Transcripts of these interviews,
                            which provide the basis for this article, are in Meredith, Solsberry,
                            Indiana, 75–100, 11–28, 58–74, 29–57.
                  
                     5 Henry Baker, "
                                Greene County
                             Sixty-nine Years Ago," Biographical Memoirs of 
                                    Greene County
                                , Indiana, with Reminiscences of Pioneer Days (3 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1908), I, 40–53.
                  
                     6 W.E. Tharp and Charles J. Mann, "Soil Survey of 
                                Greene County
                            ,
               
                     others came in from the East, and gradually there evolved a
                    society that preferred even a hard life in these hills to any other and chose to remain.
            Solomon Wilkerson came from 
                        North Carolina
                     in 1835, prospered moderately in the next few years, and in 1856 laid out a village
                    site on a ridge overlooking long green meadows on either side, naming it
                    "Sols-berry" after himself and after the juicy wild blackberries growing
                        everywhere.7 There was a Main Street, a 
                        Washington
                     Street, and originally sixty lots, later increased to seventy-eight but never more.8
            
            When the Civil War came in 1861, Indiana's commitment to the Union cause was strongly
                    supported throughout the region, even though a few families were known to be
                    "copperheads" and were suspected of aiding occasional raiders from the South.
                    "We had plenty of them," Olive Raper says grimly. She tells how her
                    great-uncle's wife was forced to watch in helpless silence while a party of
                    "rebs" rode off with the horses, leaving their own "poor wore-out
                        things."9 In nearby 
                        Newark
                     a soldier home on furlough killed a man in the street when the fellow shouted for Jeff
                        Davis.10 It was a deadly time, not soon forgotten.
            Solsberry has always been an unincorporated place. Population figures are therefore lacking, but
                    probably no more than a hundred people ever lived in the town at the same time.11 Even so, it served as a trading center for the entire township of Beech Creek, which in
                    1870 numbered 2,059 inhabitants.12 By then there were four grocery stores, a
                    flour mill and feed store, two millinery shops, a saddlery, a blacksmith shop, a nursery, a carding
                    and spinning establishment, a cabinet shop, a photographer's studio, a boarding house, two
                    doctors, a grammar school, and a high school.13 Beginning in 1874 there was also
                    a 
                  Indiana," in Edward Barrett, state geologist, ed., Thirty-Sixth
                                Annual Report of the Department of Geology and Natural Resources of Indiana for the
                                Calendar Year 1911 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1912), 430–32; see also Raymond A. Baumler, "
                                Greene County
                            , Indiana: An Area of Declining Population" (M.A. thesis, Department of
                            Geology, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1952), 18.
                  
                     7 Goodspeed Bros. & Co., pubs., History of 
                                    Greene
                                 and Sullivan Counties, State of Indiana, from the Earliest Times to the
                                Present; together with Interesting Biographical Sketches, Reminiscences, Notes,
                            etc. (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 264–68.
                  
                     8 Avis Sherrow, "History of the Little Town of Solsberry and
                            the First Church," mimeograph copy (Solsberry, n.d.), 1.
                  
                     9 Raper interview, 24–25.
                  
                     10 Goodspeed, History of 
                                    Greene
                                 and Sullivan Counties, 270.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 268, 270.
                  
                     12 U.S., Ninth Census, Population Schedules for 
                                Greene County
                            , Indiana, 1870, National Archives Microfilm Publications No. 593, Roll 318.
                  
                     13 The list of businesses and schools can be found in "Beech
                            Creek Township Business Directory," in George H. Adams & Co., comps., New Topographical Atlas and Gazeteer of Indiana… (
                                New York
                            , 1871), n.p., supplemented by Avis Sherrow interview, 92, 94, 97, and by Wayne
                            Sherrow interview, 78–79, 84–85.
               
                     normal school operated by "Professor" R. A.
                    Ogg for the instruction of fledgling teachers.14
            
            By all standards of the day the community flourished. Before long, however, a general population
                    decline set in, and by 1900 the township had lost 27 percent of its inhabitants.15 What with long hauls over bad roads only meager quantities of livestock, sawlogs,
                    wagon-wheel spokes, barrel staves, and hoop poles made their way to market.16
                    Solsberry simply could not compete with centers having ready access to rails or waterways. Many a
                    lad took off for the coal fields and rich bottomlands in the western part of the county or continued
                    farther afield to 
                  St. Louis, Chicago
               , and points west.17 In the words of
                    Bernard Glover, "Solsberry was in dire straits."18
            
            Soon after the establishment of the Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     Southern in 1886, the 
                        Illinois
                     Central, which controlled it, proceeded to upgrade the entire line from Switz City from
                    narrow to standard gauge and to bridge the 
                        Wabash
                    .19 In the years that followed there was much talk of an extension
                    to 
                        Indianapolis
                     through the hill country of eastern 
                        Greene County
                    , and people around Solsberry speculated that such a development would really
                    "tear things up"; that is, it would work many changes.20 At
                    least it could not make things any worse. Work designed to exploit some deposits of coal and high
                    grade iron ore around 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Indiana, actually began along a line running somewhat south of present State Highway
                    45; but the 
                  
                     14 Indiana University alumni records list a Robert Alexander Ogg as
                            receiving a B.S. degree in 1872 and an M.A. in 1892. His death date is given as May 12,
                            1936. Indiana University alumni records, Office of Alumni Relations, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            . Ogg's school is described in "Echoes of Solsberry
                            Hills," 
                                Bloomfield
                            
                            Evening World, July 30, 1936.
                  
                     15 The population of Beech Creek Township was listed as 1,506 in 1900.
                            U.S., Thirteenth Census, 1910: Abstract of the Census, with Supplement for
                                Indiana (
                                Washington
                            , 1913), 578.
                  
                     16 Hoop-poles were lengths of hickory for splitting into thin strips
                            used to bind barrels together. A 1906 citation in Mitford J. Mathews, ed., Dictionary of Americanisms on Historical Principles (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1951), I, 830, indicates that Indiana at one time bore the nickname of
                            "the hoop-pole state."
                  
                     17 Baumler, "
                                Greene County
                            , Indiana," passim.
                  
                  
                     18 Glover interview, 32.
                  
                     19 Elmer G. Sulzer, Ghost Railroads of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1970), chapter 8, gives an idea of the welter of small lines in the area. The 
                                Illinois
                             Central's basic strategy for Indiana, 
                                Tennessee
                            , and 
                                Kentucky
                             was foreshadowed by its president, William F. Ackerman, in a paper read before
                            the 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society on February 20, 1883. See William K. Ackerman, Early 
                                    Illinois
                                 Railroads (Fergus Historical Series, no. 23; 
                                Chicago
                            , 1884). See also Carlton J. Corliss, "Battle of the Titans,"
                            in Main Line of Mid-America: The Story of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 Central (
                                New York
                            , 1950) 332–33; and John F. Stover, History of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 Central Railroad (
                                New York
                            , 1975), 265.
                  
                     20 Raper interview, 12.
               
                    
                    
                  Map prepared by Cathryn L. Lombardi, based in part on material supplied by Larry
                            Shute.
               
                     project languished, leaving only a few embankments and an
                    unfinished tunnel as mementos of the attempt.21
            
            Finally the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Southern came forward with a new survey, promoted as "the high and dry
                    route" because it favored a chain of ridges between 
                        Bloomington
                     and 
                        Bloomfield
                     rather than the winding creek beds below.22 The route would go
                    through Solsberry and involved one major problem—the crossing of a spacious valley three
                    miles west of town at the confluence of Richland and Beech creeks. At this point trains would have
                    to "take to the air" for almost a half-mile of track, a record span for an
                    American railroad and surpassed only by the Gerabit viaduct in 
                        France
                    .23
            
            Most of the construction workers were imported: one gang from the South, all Negroes, and another
                    from 
                        Italy
                    . The blacks were assigned to the stretch beyond the west end of the viaduct, the
                    Italians to the portion coming out of 
                        Bloomington
                    , through Solsberry, to the east end. It was a convenient separation, and altogether
                    necessary in view of the animosity which immediately erupted between the two groups.24
            
            The Italians arrived in the charge of an interpreter called Tony James who had accompanied them all
                    the way from their homeland.25 They quickly set to work with pick, shovel, and
                    dynamite, wielding all three with great abandon.26 For lack of other
                    entertainment they spent their evenings gambling, fighting, and drinking quantities of wine
                    concocted at the campsites. No one can say how many were killed one way or another, but the local
                    inhabitants still speak darkly of the roadbed's having been built on the bones of Italians.
            
               
                  21 Sullivan interview, 67–68. Sullivan's comments were
                        generally confirmed by Charles W. Shannon, "Iron Ores of 
                            Greene County
                        ," in Biographical Memoirs of 
                                Greene County
                            , 280–94. Shannon mentions a deposit of large blocks of
                        siliceous ore and some outcropping ledges, estimated at 500,000 tons, just a mile south of
                        Solsberry. He states, however, that this ore "has been greatly
                        over-estimated… it is doubtful if this line of deposit will prove to be of any
                        practical value." Shannon, "Iron Ores of 
                            Greene County
                        ," 294.
               
                  22 According to Maxine Ramsey, "Echoes," 
                            Bloomfield
                        
                        News, August 30, 1978, the survey was filed in the office of the clerk of the
                        circuit court, 
                     Bloomfield, Greene County
                  , Indiana. Completion was scheduled for 1906.
               
                  23 The Solsberry viaduct is described in Faye L. Flynn, "High,
                        Wide, and Handsome (and Almost Forgotten)," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, June 10, 1973; Lou Maravilla, "Solsberry's Viaduct
                        Said ‘Unique,’" 
                            Bloomington
                        
                        Courier Tribune, November 8, 1968; and unsigned articles in 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, December 5, 1979, and 
                            Bloomington
                        
                        Herald Times, November 11, 1979.
               
                  24 Raper interview, 14.
               
                  25 Tony James's original name was not ascertained. Olive Raper
                        believes he was Rumanian rather than Italian. Raper interview, 28.
               
                  26 Olive Raper demonstrated to the author how one poor fellow shook the
                        flesh from his hands after a dynamite accident at Head's Cut.
            
            
            The community viewed these exotic visitors with detachment, amused by their strange ways but
                    otherwise unconcerned. As the deadline for completion neared, gangs on both sides of the trestle
                    worked around the clock, Sundays included. When asked if this aroused any disapproval among the good
                    churchgoers of the township, one Solsberry resident replied: "No… I
                    don't think there was ever a word said. They didn't complain about that, because
                    it wasn't our people."27 Local residents were equally tolerant of the drinking.
                    For that matter, homemade whiskey ("darned good booze") had always been a dietary
                    staple around Solsberry.28 Once back in 1854 the Reverend George Richey had
                    preached a series of fiery temperance sermons, and it is said that the locals got rid of him by the
                    simple device of burning down his church, which they later rebuilt after he left town.29
            
            In due course, through narrow cuts and over steep-sided fills, the rails came to the valley that was
                    to be crossed by the viaduct. From old photographs it appears that the steel web was assembled from
                    above, piece by piece, by a rail crane advancing over each section as it was completed.30 Never before had there been such a grand spectacle around Solsberry. People
                    came from miles away, by wagon and surrey, on horseback, and on foot, to see the giant structure
                    take shape. Many came from log-hewn farmsteads deep in the forest, over roads little better than the
                    Indian trails they traced. Whole families would bring Sunday dinner and spend the day gossiping,
                    visiting the concession stands in the meadow below, watching the workmen, fascinated by the din and
                        danger.31 Rumor tells of many accidents, but only one fatality was actually
                        reported.32 Even that incident was converted (through the light-hearted
                    disrespect for fact that still characterizes Solsberry humor) into the story of a man wearing gum
                    boots who fell and kept bouncing until he had to be shot to keep him from starving to death.33
            
            
               
                  27 Raper interview, 17.
               
                  28
                        
                            Wayne
                         Sherrow interview, 24.
               
                  29 Glover interview, 52; Mrs. Mathew Corwin, "Good to be
                        Home," undated article (c. 1913) in possession of Avis Sherrow.
               
                  30 Component girders for the towers and spans were fabricated by the
                        American Bridge Company and erected by Strobel Steel Construction Company on concrete
                        foundations provided by the Collier Bridge Company at a total cost of $242,601 for
                        2,215 feet. O'Brien to author, April 2, 1982. Ramsey provides a colorful account of the
                        building phase in "Echoes," 
                            Bloomfield
                        
                        Evening World, August 30, 1978.
               
                  31 Raper interview, 16–17.
               
                  32 Stan Sutton, "The Unknown Wonder of 
                            Greene County
                        ," 
                            Bloomington
                        
                        Courier Tribune, October 14, 1973.
               
                  33 Maravilla, "Solsberry's Viaduct Said
                        ‘Unique.’"
            
            
            
               STEAM ENGINE USED IN CONSTRUCTION, c. 1906
               Courtesy Bernard Glover.
            
            Somehow the viadict was completed by the time the last sections of track were laid. On December 14,
                    1906, the 
                        Bloomfield
                    
                    News exulted that "
                        Bloomfield
                     is at last ‘on the map’ of a big railroad system, and the people
                    will rejoice to know that Supt. L.W. Baldwin has announced the opening of the new road for next
                        Monday."34 There would be two passenger trains daily each way, as
                    well as a local freight that would also carry passengers each day except Sunday.
            Solsberry had its own celebration, of course. A fine depot, flanked by a siding with cattle pens and
                    a logyard, now dominated the town. The entire populace came to greet the first train, filled with
                    dignitaries. School was let out, and small boys drunk with excitement held their ears to the rails
                    to detect the approaching vibrations and were the first to swarm over the locomotive and cars on
                    arrival. The dignitaries are long gone, but in the memories of a few of those children now grown old
                    the event still lives on. For most of them the ensuing trips to 
                        Bloomfield
                     or to 
                        Bloomington
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     beyond were their first views of the outside world.35
            
            
               
                  34 "The man in overall charge of construction was Archibald
                        Stuart Baldwin (usually referred to in railroad files as A.S. Baldwin), who was IC's
                        engineer of construction from May 1903 to March 1905, when he was named chief
                        engineer." O'Brien to author, April 2, 1982.
               
                  35 Glover interview, 30–31.
            
            
            
               BUILDING THE VIADUCT, 1906
               Courtesy Wallace Sullivan.
            
            
               RECENT PHOTOGRAPH OF VIADUCT LOOKING TOWARD TULIP FROM SOLSBERRY
               
               Courtesy 
                            Bloomfield
                        
                        Evening World.
               
            
            
            
               DEPOT AT SOLSBERRY. 1918
               LEFT TO RIGHT: "DADDY"
                            RUTH, RUBY BULLOCK, RUTH BULLOCK, CAL McDONALD,
                            FRANK FODDRILL, BILL COOK, CHARLEY RAY, TROY SPARKS, FRANK CORWIN, MERLE HOSTETTLER, ROY MASON
                        (ICRR AGENT, IN BOW TIE), HOWARD BRIDGES DWIGHT YOHO (BOY, FAR RIGHT)
               Courtesy Avis Sherrow.
            
            
            
               LOG YARD AND STOCK CHUTE
                            AT SOLSBERRY STATION
               
               Courtesy Avis Sherrow.
            
            
            The Italian laborers were shipped off to parts unknown, all except Tony the interpreter, who remained
                    and bought a plot of land, married a local girl, and spent the rest of his long life in Solsberry.
                    Maintenance crews were still needed, however, so there was plenty of employment for strong fellows
                    like Wallace Sullivan, who likes to tell how they would raise long sections of track, restore the
                    roadbed, insert new ties, and spike all in place "whangedy-whang" between
                        trains.36 The railroad also employed stationmasters, telegraph operators,
                    agents, and full-time flagmen at the main crossings all up and down the line.
            Almost overnight Solsberry became a railroad town, a shipping point for produce and livestock and for
                    the great saw-logs from trees that would otherwise have aged, died, fallen, and rotted in the forest
                    as in eons past. Showers Brothers furniture factory in 
                        Bloomington
                     took much of this beautiful clear hardwood—oak, walnut, hickory, maple, elm,
                    and tulip tree—and in summertime and fall loaded wagons drawn by "the prettiest
                    horses you ever saw" converged on the town, usually helped up that last hill by a
                    "snap team" of two or four additional horses.37 During good
                    weather the quantity of logs brought in far surpassed the number which could be loaded onto flatcars
                    by the "gin-pole" operator, and the excess piled up everywhere—even in
                    the churchyard—for shipment during the winter. Second-grade logs usually went to the
                    steam-powered sawmill operated by the Jenkins brothers, to be cut into mine
                    timbers—props, caps, and narrow-gauge ties—and shipped in the opposite
                    direction to the mines beyond Switz City.38
            
            Fresh blackberries in season were picked and shipped by the hundreds of gallons to 
                        Bloomington
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     for immediate consumption or for cordials. Local game became a cash crop, and boys like
                    young Bernard made a nice income by snaring rabbits and selling them for five cents apiece to Frank
                    Yoho, proprieter of one of the local stores, who packed them in sacks and barrels and sent them off
                    to a fertilizer plant in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Once in a while a boy would be lucky enough to bag a "starred"
                    skunk, prized for its pelt, for which he would be paid twenty-five cents.39
            
            
               
                  36 Sullivan interview, 61–62.
               
                  37 Glover interview, 34; 
                            Wayne
                         Sherrow interview, 77.
               
                  38 Sullivan interview, 65. The 
                            Illinois
                         Central preferred yellow pine ties from its own creosoting plant in the South. Ibid., 66.
               
                  39 Glover interview, 42, 46; 
                            Wayne
                         Sherrow interview, 80–81.
            
            
            
               Map prepared by Cathryn L. Lombardi, based on information supplied by Avis
                    Sherrow.
            
            
            Before the rails came through, Yoho would bring the mail down from Freedom (the nearest station on
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     & 
                        Vincennes
                     line), shouting his team all the way, waking the hills. When the rails made Solsberry a
                    communication center for the entire area and Walter Alexander was appointed as the first postmaster,
                    Yoho turned to other enterprises, such as buying and shipping produce, operating a
                    "huckster wagon" delivery service out of his store, and organizing harvest crews
                    and sending them off by camp car as far away as 
                        Illinois
                    . He was a big man, by all accounts. He could carry a hundred-pound bag of feed under
                    each arm and a man on his back at the same time, and he could sling a timber onto a load
                    single-handed. When a man had drunk a little too much at Frank's store, he had better not
                    argue when told to leave.40
            
            Henry and Martha Lutz ran a popular boarding house, and Solsberry became a favorite way-station
                    between Effingham and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Train crews could enjoy a hot meal at the boarding house or—if a relief
                    crew were on hand—a congenial night's rest. The railroaders made pets of the
                    children, taught them how to hop a train properly, and even slowed the 
                        Indianapolis
                    -bound coal trains to a crawl so that the youngsters could climb up and throw off chunks
                    all the way through town. "I used to have to cut up tree-tops to keep our stove
                    going," says Bernard Glover, "but after the train came through I never chopped
                    wood again. The whole town burned coal!"41
            
            None of this was allowed to interfere with schooling, which even the pioneers supported so vigorously
                    that hardly a child had to walk more than a mile or two to reach a local one-room schoolhouse,
                    presided over by some poor soul in exchange for board and a pittance. Olive Raper taught in several
                    such, including the one at Solsberry, but the most famous teacher at that place was a man named
                    Charley Barnes, who was brought in for the express purpose of subduing Carl
                    "Bonehead" Burch, the biggest, meanest kid in the school. "He whipped
                    him, but it took a long time. He had to get him down on the floor first, but he whipped him, and
                    Carl never caused any more trouble."42 Before long, parents began
                    sending their children, after grade school, to the high school in 
                        Bloomfield
                    . Train fair was only twenty-five cents each way, and usually a student could find a
                    place to stay for helping with the chores. The high school in 
                  
                     40
                            
                                Wayne
                             Sherrow interview, 81.
                  
                     41 Glover interview, 57; 
                                Wayne
                             Sherrow interview, 85–86.
                  
                     42 Glover interview, 54–55.
               
                    
                    
                  R. A. OGG'S NORMAL SCHOOL
                                CLASS, c. 1890
                  Courtesy Bernard Glover.
               
                     Solsberry fell vacant. Likewise Professor Ogg was forced to
                    close his normal school because students aspiring to higher education could easily reach the campus
                    of Indiana University at 
                        Bloomington
                    . The professor moved away.
            These and other changes cultural, economic, and political tumbled in on Solsberry as if to make
                    restitution for the long years of inactivity. The town basked in sudden ascendancy over neighboring
                    communities bypassed by the rails, such as Hendricksville, 
                        Newark
                    , McVille (pronounced "Mac-vill"), and 
                        Stanford
                    , whose citizens had to make do with a whistle-stop called "Elwren"
                    two miles north of their town.43 More than anything else, the
                    community's love affair with the railroad arose from the simple comparison between its
                    earlier stagnant condition and the benefits of a brand-new export economy. To a youngster growing
                    up, the newly thriving town was a paradise of excitement, and by young and old alike the railroad
                    was deemed a benefactor, free of the charges of oppression and exploitation of which great railroads
                    in the West stood accused. For one thing, before there was time to consolidate any kind of monopoly,
                    other forces were stirring. Already roads were being improved, foreshadowing the age of motor
                    transport. Even as the first trains began rolling, the first automobile clattered into town.
            The arrival of the first car was not altogether a happy event. It seems that the Beard brothers, who
                    moved over from moribund 
                        Newark
                     to operate a restaurant and general store in Solsberry, decided to invest in one of the
                    new contraptions, and everyone turned out to see it arrive. Those who came from a distance hitched
                    their horses to a long iron rack outside the Beards' store while they waited and swapped
                    stories. "We heard that car coming," says Bernard Glover. "Oh, you could
                    hear it! It made a racket like nothing ever heard before. And here he come over the hill, and
                    everybody just standing and waiting. We never any of us seen a car before. And it made this terrific
                    noise and the horses broke and pulled that big hitching rack out of the ground. They ran and just
                    piled up at the bottom of the hill, rigs and all. Killed two or three of them."44 The episode soured the citizenry on automobiles (and on the Beards) for a
                    while.
            
               
                  43 According to Ronald L. Baker and Marvin Carmony, Indiana
                            Place Names (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1975), 48, Elwren was derived from four family names: Eller, Whaley, Baker,
                        Breeden.
               
                  44 Glover interview, 44.
            
            
            Rail traffic continued to increase. The roadbed was improved and the viaduct strengthened in 1916.45 When war came, passenger traffic boomed, with constant comings and goings,
                    separations and reunions. Some families ventured even beyond 
                        Indianapolis
                     to see a son leave for 
                        France
                     or to greet him on return. The war prolonged prosperity for an extra two or three
                    years, but after the fighting was over the trains stopped less often in Solsberry. Fine hardwood
                    logs were no longer plentiful, and anyway the market for them had dwindled. Frank Yoho, who would by
                    then have been a wealthy man except for his habit of extending credit to one and all over the years,
                    became infirm. When he died, it is said that the whole town died.46 The younger
                    generation in Solsberry moved away.
            Passenger service on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Southern was finally discontinued altogether, and in the 1930s the depot where young
                    and old used to watch the trains come and go was dismantled.47 The siding is
                    still used to accommodate occasional maintenance equipment, but the stock pens and the log racks are
                    gone. The line is now part of the Indiana Division of the 
                        Illinois
                     Central Railroad. The coal trains still rumble across the great viaduct, through
                    Head's Cut, through Andy Combs' Cut, and through the heart of
                    Solsberry—past the old Yoho Grocery Store, past a scattering of white houses, past the
                    large cemetery east of town, and on to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The trains are never far from the consciousness of the people who remain, the few who
                    would not dream of living anywhere else.
            Solsberry is still a railroad town.
            
               
                  45 The length was increased from 2,215 feet to the present 2,306 feet. The
                        total weight of steel in the structure as it now stands is 2,895 tons. O'Brien to
                        author, April 2, 1982.
               
                  46
                        
                            Wayne
                         Sherrow interview, 81.
               
                  47 Larry Shute, Solsberry, provided information concerning the
                    depot.
            
         
         
         
            "
                        Middletown
                     Looks at the Lynds": A Contemporary Critique by the Reverend Dr. Hillyer H.
                    Straton of 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, 1937
            
                    Edited by Robert S. LaForte and Richard Himmel
                    ∗
                
            
               
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, "the most studied community in America,"1 as presented by Robert S. and Helen Merrell Lynd in 
                  
                            Middletown
                         and 
                            Middletown
                         in Transition has helped to shape the self-image of the urban 
                        United States
                    .2 These books, published in 1929 and 1937, are among the most
                    influential works written on America in this century. College graduates of the 1930s, 1940s, and
                    1950s tended to derive their concepts of urban society from the Lynds' generalizations and,
                    in many instances, were more familiar with the socioeconomic conditions of 
                        Middletown
                     than they were with conditions in the metropolises of 
                  Detroit, Chicago
               ,
                    or 
                        New York
                    . Although it has yet to be demonstrated that the Lynds helped make sociology a
                    legitimate discipline accepted by the American public, the fact that such a book as 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     could go through six printings in its first year attests to its influence.3 During the past five years America has renewed its interest in the Lynds' studies.
                    The rediscovery of the Lynds' 
                        Middletown
                     is the result of improvements in sociological and historical methodologies that have
                    led scholars to challenge or defend the Lynds' findings and to update or alter their
                    earlier conclusions.4
            
            
               
                  ∗ Robert S. La Forte is professor of history and Richard Himmel
                        is librarian-archivist at North 
                            Texas
                         State University, Denton, 
                            Texas
                        .
               
                  1 C. Warren Vander Hill, "
                            Middletown
                        : The Most Studied Community in America," Indiana Social
                            Studies Quarterly, XXXIII (Summer, 1980), 47–57.
               
                  2 Richard Jensen, "The Lynds Revisited," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXV (December, 1979), 318.
               
                  3 John Madge, The Origins of Scientific Sociology (
                            New York
                        , 1962), 128.
               
                  4 See Carrolyle M. Frank, "‘
                            Middletown
                        ’ Revisited—Reappraising the Lynds' Classic Studies
                        of 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana," Indiana Social Studies Quarterly, XXX
                        (Spring, 1977), 94–100; John Robert Printz, "Through a Glass Darkly: Value
                        Presuppositions in the Work of Robert S. Lynd" (Ph.D. dissertation, American Studies
                        Program, University of 
                            Minnesota
                        , 1978); Carrolyle M. Frank, "Who Governed 
                            Middletown
                        ? Community Power in 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana, in the 1930s," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXV (December, 1979), 320–43;
            
            
            Despite the impressive amount of scholarly literature challenging the Lynds' views, little
                    effort has been made to determine what the citizens of 
                        Muncie
                     thought about the studies. The people of 
                        Muncie
                     during the 1930s appear to have been only moderately interested in what was being said
                    about them as residents of the Lynds' 
                        Middletown
                    . The city's two major newspapers, the 
                        Muncie
                    
                    Morning Star and the 
                        Muncie
                    
                    Evening Press, provided modest coverage of 
                  
                            Middletown
                         in Transition.
               5 The remembrances of Lucy Ball Owsley, a
                    daughter of Frank C. Ball, the patriarch of the Ball family—the family X of 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     and 
                  
                            Middletown
                         in Transition—confirm this view. Her family generally ignored the
                    books, the exception being her mother, Elizabeth Brady Ball, who criticized the Lynds for failing to
                    interview the Balls.6 The recently published report of a critique of 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     by Lynn I. Perrigo, a scholar whose career was in part contemporaneous with those of the Lynds
                    and who was a resident of 
                        Muncie
                     in the 1920s and 1930s, corroborates the view that citizens of 
                        Middletown
                     paid little attention to the Lynds' publications. Perrigo wrote at the time
                    that "many people in the city are not aware that there is such a book."7
            
            One 
                        Muncie
                     resident was very much aware of the Lynds' work and disagreed profoundly with
                    it. Dr. Hillyer Hawthorne Straton was minister of the First Baptist Church of 
                        Muncie
                     from 1930 to 1938. In his hitherto unpublished manuscript of ten typewritten pages
                    Straton complains of misrepresentation by the Lynds of the Ball family and of 
                        Muncie
                    . He takes special exception to the Lynds' views of class, democracy, and
                    community, views he characterizes as "radical, ‘newdealish,’ or
                    liberal."
            Hillyer Straton was the son of a well-known 
                        New York
                     clergyman, John Roach Straton. The elder Straton had been born in 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, but attained fame as the minister of the Calvary Baptist Church in 
                        New York City
                    , where he 
                  Howard M. Bahr, "The Perrigo Paper: A Local Influence upon 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXVIII (March,
                            1982), 1–25; Theodore Caplow et al., 
                                    Middletown
                                 Families: Fifty Years of Change and Continuity (
                                Minneapolis
                            , 1982). Five parts of a six-part series on 
                                Middletown
                            , produced by Peter Davis, were aired on the Public Broadcasting System during
                            the spring of 1982.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, March-December, 1937; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Evening Press, March-December, 1937.
                  
                     6 Transcript of interview with Lucy Ball Owsley, Dallas, 
                                Texas
                            , March 24, 1982, pp. 7, 10, 18 (North 
                                Texas
                             State University Archives, Denton, 
                                Texas
                            ).
                  
                     7 Bahr, "Perrigo Paper," 10.
               
                     opposed religious modernisn and evolutionary theory and served
                    as a trustee of the Anti-Saloon League. He claimed to have started the first church radio station in
                    America at the Calvary Baptist in 1923.8 Hillyer Straton's achievements
                    were not as spectacular as his father's, but before his death he had published seven
                    religious tracts and served congregations in 
                  Muncie,
                            Detroit
               , and Maiden, 
                        Massachusetts
                    . He died in Maiden at age sixty-three in 1968. He was a graduate of Mercer University
                            (
                  Macon, Georgia
               ) and the Eastern Baptist Theological Seminary (
                        Philadelphia
                    ) and had attended 
                        Columbia
                     and 
                        Harvard
                     Universities.9
            
            Considering the absence of much contemporary comment by 
                        Muncie
                     citizens and in light of the general acceptance of the Lynds' opinions by
                    America's educated elite, Straton's counter-views are worth considering. Straton
                    was a next-door neighbor of William H. Ball, one of the sons of the brothers who founded the Ball
                    glass industry and a person mentioned by the Lynds. Alice Aven Straton, Hillyer's wife, has
                    stated that during the eight years she and her husband spent in 
                        Muncie
                     they mixed frequently with what the Lynds considered the ruling elite of the town.
                    Straton's ministerial work, however, took him into all types of homes in all parts of the
                    city. Straton's vocation and education prepared him to be a better-than-average observer of
                    society; and although he possessed biases common to his time, place, and position, he does appear to
                    be a sincere critic of the Lynds. To some extent time has given his views support, since several
                    modern scholars tend to agree with his evaluation that the Lynds brought their conclusions with them
                    to 
                        Muncie
                     and believed they had found proof to support their biases there. As the following
                    document illustrates, Straton too found support in 
                        Middletown
                     for his convictions.10
            
            
               
                  8 "Straton, John Roach," National
                            Cyclopaedia of American Biography (
                            New York
                        , 1941), XXIX, 18.
               
                  9 "Straton, Hillyer Hawthorne," Contemporary Authors: Permanent Series (
                            Detroit
                        , 1975), I, 608.
               
                  10 Straton wrote two short editorials for the 
                            Muncie
                        
                        Evening Press and a letter to Time concerning the
                        Lynds' work. See "Ex-New Yorker on ‘
                            Middletown
                        ,’" 
                            Muncie
                        
                        Evening Press, April 29, 1937; "Comment," 
                            Muncie
                        
                        Evening Press, August 5, 1937; "Pastor's Picture,"
                            Time, XXX (July 5, 1937), 5.
            
            
            
               HILLYER HAWTHORNE STRATON
               
               Courtesy First Baptist Church of 
                            Muncie
                        .
            
            
            
               FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH of MUNCIE
               
               Courtesy First Baptist Church of 
                            Muncie
                        .
            
            
            MIDDLETOWN LOOKS at the LYNDS
               1
            
            Bill Nye2 once sagely remarked, "I'd rather not know so much
                    than to know so much that ain't so." This quotation rather completely expresses
                    the attitude of 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana to the latest disecting at the hands of Robert and Helen Lynd. We feel very
                    much like the proverbial goldfish since Life has so thoroughly stripped from 
                        Middletown
                     its previous comparative anonymity. Are we really seeing ourselves as
                    "ithers" see us3 or is the mirror in which we are reflected
                    itself distorted so that the image is bound to be out of focus? There begins to be a large question
                    in our minds as to whether Amy McPherson4 was right when she said, "It
                    doesn't make much difference what they say just so they are talking about you."
            Is 
                        Muncie
                     another average town, or is there a something about it that makes it just enough
                    different to be high-hatted by a group of Hudson-bound intellectuals on one side and respected as
                    the norm for healthy American life on the other? How does it seem to an outsider, to one who has
                    lived and worked from the Bible-belt to the night club area, who lived over a dozen years in 
                        New York City
                     and has traveled over the better part of the globe?
            For the past seven years Muncie has been my home. This is a period long enough to get beneath the
                    surface, to learn men for what they are and to judge organizations and institutions in the light of
                    their fruits. The type of work engaged in is such that it carries me weekly into the homes that
                    represent every class in the city, from the poorest to the wealthiest, from those with the least
                    educational advantage to those with the greatest.
            
               
                  1 Hillyer H. Straton's typewritten manuscript is located in the
                        Alvin M. Owsley Collection, North 
                            Texas
                         State University Archives, Denton, 
                            Texas
                        . Owsley was a son-in-law of Frank C. Ball of 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana. The editors have transcribed the document as nearly like the original as
                        possible. Apparently Straton himself edited the manuscript at some point, in places crossing out
                        certain words and phrases and inserting handwritten emendations above the line. In all but three
                        instances what is presumed to be his final version is reproduced below. Phrases or sentences
                        enclosed in brackets are comments that Straton deleted but that the editors felt were too
                        illustrative of his views to be omitted from the transcription.
               
                  2 Edgar Wilson Nye (1850–1896) was a humorist who worked for
                        the 
                            New York
                        
                        Herald.
               
               
                  3 Straton is probably quoting stanza 8 of Robert Burns's
                        "To a Louse." O wad some power the giftie gie us/To see oursels as ithers see
                        us!/It wad frae monie a blunder free us,/An' foolish notion.
               
                  4 Aimee Semple McPherson (1890–1944) was an evangelist and
                        founder of the International Church of the Four Square Gospel.
            
            
            
               AERIAL PHOTOGRAPH OF FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH IN THE EARLY 1930s
               Courtesy First Baptist Church of 
                            Muncie
                        ; reproduced from Thine is the Glory, 1859–1979: First
                            Baptist Church, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, Commemorative History…, p. 25.
            
            
            Despite quite evident bias on the part of the authors, 
                        Muncie
                     accepted 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     with a grimace but nevertheless fairly good grace. The same cannot be said of 
                  
                            Middletown
                         in Transition.
               5 It is quite generally felt that Robert
                    Lynd failed to live up to his own standard of, "The social scientist as an impersonal
                    worker selecting problems and analyzing them with bloodless concern… seeking to test his
                    hypotheses rather than to prove his values. If he is honest and self-critical he does not seek to
                    bolster his own intellectual position but rather to marshal all relevant data."6
            
            Both books have been hailed by critics far and wide as the last word in sociological accuracy. Stuart
                    Chase says that the latest book is "a great study, careful, fair, charged
                    with the long view."7 How he knows is a puzzle for he has never been
                    here. There is a general consensus of opinion in this city that where the Lynds deal with
                    statistical matters such as government census records, they are accurate and do present a true
                    picture of the community such as in the fine chapter on Getting A Living. Our outstanding local
                        editor8 sums up this attitude when he says, "Eliminate from it all
                    the old wives' tales which the Lynds evidently absorbed and then printed as truth and give
                    both sides of controversial subjects which was not always done, and 
                        Middletown
                     in Transition would present a true picture of 
                        Muncie
                    —and also of almost any industrial city of 50,000 anywhere in the 
                        United States
                    ."
            When dealing with matters of philosophy, especially regarding political and economic theories,
                    preconceived views color the work so drastically that anything but a true picture is presented. A
                    local columnist said, "They came here with a preconceived notion of what 
                        Middletown
                     should be, and merely looked for a hook on which to hang their prefabricated coat of
                    drab colors. Blind to everything else, they found certain things they were seeking, quickly
                    rubber-stamped them as typical and left."9
            
            
               
                  5 Father Edgar J. Cyr, pastor of St. Mary's Church in 
                            Muncie
                        , also had served in 
                            Middletown
                         for seven years and took exception to the Lynds' findings in the May 18,
                        1937, issue of Our Sunday Visitor, reprinted, in part, in the 
                            Muncie
                        
                        Evening Press, May 22, 1937.
               
                  6 Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrell Lynd, 
                     
                                Middletown
                             in Transition: A Study in Cultural Conflicts (
                            New York
                        , 1937), x, xv, xvii.
               
                  7 Stuart Chase, review of 
                     
                                Middletown
                             in Transition, 
                                New York
                             Herald Tribune Book Review, April 25, 1937, p. 1.
               
                  8 Straton is most likely referring to Wilbur E. Button, then editor of the 
                            Muncie
                         Evening Press.
               
                  9 Similar statements were made by Button in "Comment," 
                            Muncie
                        
                        Evening Press, April 16, 1937.
            
            
            This is nowhere more glaring than in Lynd's development of his hypothesis of the
                    X's as a "reigning royal family… who dominated the town, are the town
                    in fact.10 Scientific accuracy is thrown overboard in order to present the
                    X's as an octopus with its benevolent tenacles in everything, squeezing the life out of us
                    poor devils who have to dance to their tune.
            A small but typical illustration of inexcusable inaccuracy is the reference to the "two new
                    X subdivisions in the West end… where the X's live. Since 1925 the X family has
                    literally moved the residential heart of the city… This shift has been carefully
                    engineered by members of the X family."11 The facts are, and Lynd had
                    access to them had he asked, that credit should go to a leading real estate dealer. This man was
                    close enough to the Lynds to provide the map for the recent volume and to receive an autographed
                    copy of the book from Robert Lynd. Never once was he asked regarding the two subdivisions or the
                    move to the west part of the city. One of the younger X's12 did put up
                    a fourth interest in the first development, two other young men supplying a fourth each and the
                    realtor his fourth. As for the newer subdivision, it is owned and was developed completely by the
                    realtor in question.
            The shift to the west end was inevitable because of its freedom from industry and railroad tracks.
                    The college was located there and another family of wealth had built or planned large estates in
                    that section. The X's had no more to do with the shift than any other of a half a dozen
                    citizens who wished to live there.
            Lynd states, "Through the early 1920's when the normal school was quickening into
                    life, the X real estate agents were quietly buying up parcel after parcel of residential property in
                    the then socially nondescript Normal School section of town."13 This
                    becomes positively vicious in its untruth when he adds, "These houses have subsequently
                    been removed or improved and these extensive operations must have involved a tidy profit to the X
                    family as promoters offsetting their benevolences to the hospital and
                        college." (Italics mine.)14
            
            
               
                  10 Lynd and Lynd, 
                     
                                Middletown
                             in Transition, 77. When quoting from the Lynds' book, Straton at
                        times juxtaposes sentences and phrases; however, he does not significantly change the meaning of
                        what the Lynds were presenting.
               
                  11
                        Ibid., 81–82.
               
                  12 This is a reference to Frank E. Ball, the youngest son of Frank C.
                        Ball, president of the Ball Brothers Company.
               
                  13 Lynd and Lynd, 
                     
                                Middletown
                             in Transition, 83.
               
                        14
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            Again what are the facts? Property due west of the hospital was purchased for future expansion of the
                    hospital units and to provide adequate rental property for laboratory technicians and other
                    professional people. A full 1925–1930 market value was paid for this property the owner
                    setting the sale price in each instance. The bulk of it today would bring considerably less than its
                    purchase price. The X's own only 5% of residential property in this section much of it
                    undeveloped. The scientific value of the statement that the X benevolences to the hospital and
                    college are offset by the unearned increment of their real estate holdings can be judged when you
                    know that these gifts are nearly twice as large as the total assessed value of all
                    the real estate in the Normal School section. Were their holdings in proximity to the college
                    divided into the average 75 foot city lot, each would have to sell for over $75,000.00 to
                    equal the X gifts to the college and hospital. Such rabid economy with the truth in order to develop
                    a hypothesis is quite unbecoming one who considers himself a "scientific social
                    investigator."
            Because of their large gifts to X State Teachers College, it is natural to expect the X's to
                    have a voice in its management, but they have been liberal in their policies and have shown complete
                    willingness to have speakers come to the campus with views possibly divergent from their own. Lynd
                    leaves the general impression that the college and its faculty is as subservient to the X's
                    as he contends are the bankers, business men and preachers. In one place he says, "the
                    local college is said to be X controlled both in its larger policies and in occasional smaller
                        details."15 Yet the National Secretary of the Socialist Party has
                    appeared at the college as have Engelbrecht, coauthor of Merchants of Death,
               16 and Toyohika Kagawa pleadingly [sic] passionately for the
                    establishment of cooperatives.17
            
            What sort of people are the X's anyway? They are not perfect, they have their share of
                    faults, but by and large it would be hard to find a higher type of American citizen. To an unusual
                    degree, they recognize their wealth as a public trust. Simple in their taste and unostentatious in
                    their manner of life they almost lean over backwards in the democracy of their attitudes. [When the
                    time came for marriage, the sons and 
                  
                            15
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     16 Helmuth Carol Engelbrecht (1895–1939) and F.C. Hanighen
                            wrote Merchants of Death: A Study of the International Armament Industry (
                                New York
                            , 1934).
                  
                     17 Toyohiko Kagawa (1888–1960) was a Japanese Christian
                            social worker who organized numerous cooperatives in 
                                Japan
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  LEFT TO RIGHT: GEORGE A. BALL, WILLIAM C. BALL, FRANK C. BALL, LUCIUS L. BALL, EDMUND B. BALL, c. 1920
                  Courtesy North 
                                Texas
                             State Archives, Denton.
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from Frederic A. Birmingham, Ball Corporation: The First
                                Century (
                                Muncie
                            , Ind., 1980), 91, 92.
               
                    
                  Courtesy Stoeckel Archives, Ball State University, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana.
                  HOMES OF FRANK C. BALL, EDMUND B. BALL, WILLIAM C. BALL, MUNCIE, INDIANA
                  
               
                     daughters of the X's invariably took mates from the
                    strong middle class from which they themselves sprang. Not once has there been a union of their
                    wealth with the means of other wealthy families. This infusion of new and vital blood is one of the
                    strengths of the family.] It is just not true that "the X's hold people at arms
                        length."18 Simple proof of this is the ease with which any member
                    of the family may be seen. While it is natural that the bulk of their friends are among the business
                    class, at a large social event in their homes such as the Garden Club [or the D.A.R., fully 20%] and
                    other civic organizations many of those present will be from "south of the
                    railroad."
            In 
                  
                            Middletown
                         in Transition the south side is presented as serfs of the X's
                    standing in constant dread of them and cordially hating their overlords. The falsity of this view
                    was never more fully exploded than during a Chautauqua meeting held in the heart of the south side
                    during the middle of the depression when the crowd was addressed by Billy Sunday.19 When Sunday paid a compliment to the X's he could not go on with his speech for
                    five minutes because of the hand clapping. Why? At this very time the X's were building new
                    warehouses to stock with jars so their people might not be unemployed. During the recent sit-down
                    strikes, X employees wholly on their own initiative bought space in the local papers to express
                    their appreciation of and loyalty to the X's.20
            
            Are X employees satisfied with their wages? Some are not. Some never would be. Since the appearance
                    of 
                  
                            Middletown
                         in Transition, I have asked a dozen different employees just how they felt
                    they were treated. Every single one was satisfied and felt that they were getting and would continue
                    to get a square deal. One man said, "Sure, I'm satisfied, why shouldn't I
                    be. I've worked for them all my life, they treat me good and pay me well. Our wages are
                    decided at a conference with the X's in the fall and they stick by us and we stick by
                    them."
            Lynd seldom sees the woods for the trees and especially is his vision obscured by his pet fence of
                    "planned economy".21 In 
                  
                     18 Lynd and Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition, 95.
                  
                     19 William Ashley "Billy" Sunday
                            (1862–1935) was a popular evangelist who preached a fundamentalist theology.
                  
                     20 Lucy Ball Owsley, in answer to a question about her
                            father's reaction to strikes, stated that he would temporarily close down the plant
                            if he thought a strike unjustified. Transcript of interview with Lucy Ball Owsley, p. 15.
                  
                     21 Lynd's idea of a planned economy is best elaborated in his
                            work Knowledge for What? where, among other conclusions, he states that
                            planning and control are necessary for a culture to grow in "serviceability to its
                            people" and that private capitalism cannot assure the general welfare and must be
                            replaced
               
                     the light of the above knowledge there is a large reason for
                    questioning other of his conclusions. For purposes of invidious comparison, wage scales of 1935,
                    when the second visit was made to 
                        Muncie
                    , are quoted in the book when in other instances figures from as late as February, 1937 are used. Why were not February, 1937 wage scales, which in some instances
                    were up over 100%, employed? Because Lynd wants to draw a picture of the business leaders of 
                        Muncie
                     consciously holding down the standard of living of the working class.
            The facts are that today the hourly rate in most industries here is over 25% more than in 1929 and
                    the actual income is above that of 1929, with the men working forty instead of
                    fifty and sixty hours. If the rates are somewhat less than in metropolitan centers, the cost of
                    living is likewise less. 
                        Muncie
                     is fortunate in approaching Henry Ford's idea of the Greenbelt city of the
                        future,22 where a goodly proportion of the factory workers are living on
                    small farms and are thereby able to produce much of their own food products.
            [Constant reference is made to the low X wage scale. This too is open to debate and there are
                    compensating factors such as the]. In the X plant for instance there is a group life insurance
                    policy for each employee paid wholly by the company. They warehouse products in off seasons to
                    insure continuance of employment. An X job often means one for life. At present there are 18
                    employees who have been there over 40 years, 62 employees over 30 years and 152 over 20 years. Over
                    ten percent of the employees have been with the company longer than 20 years.
            Lynd's propensity for anything that is radical, "new-dealish", or liberal
                    is exhibited time and again. According to Lynd, there is only one church, "that of a small
                    doctrinally liberal denomination where one hears today religion awake and on the march."23 To him the old religion and the old faith is dying and had better die. He has
                    a right to his views but it is 
                  by other methods of managing the economy. See Robert S. Lynd, Knowledge for
                                What? The Place of Social Science in American Culture (
                                Princeton
                            , 1939), 209, 220.
                  
                     22 Straton may be confusing the "greenbelt cities"
                            of the Roosevelt Resettlement Administration with Henry Ford's "village
                            industries" program. Ford boasted that his towns of Iron
                            Mountain (
                                Michigan
                            ), Green Island (
                                New York
                            ), and 
                                Hamilton
                             (
                                Ohio
                            ) "would ‘take the factory to the
                            country.’" See Allan Nevins and Frank Ernest Hill, Ford:
                                Decline and Rebirth, 1933–1962 (
                                New York
                            , 1962), 72.
                  
                     23 Lynd and Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition, 308.
               
                     merely his opinion. Judging by the fruit of community impact
                    churches where a more "conservative" gospel is preached are certainly equally
                    awake to their social obligations plus their individual responsibilities.
            This radical attitude is probably the genesis of one of the most uncalled-for and inaccurate
                    statements in the entire book. The president of the local college24 is referred
                    to as "‘just one more small-time politician’ irrelevantly put in
                    charge of a state educational institution to divert him from running for Congress."25 All of this is ostensibly maneuvered by the X's. If the X's
                    wanted to keep such a man from Congress why in the name of sanity did they put him in charge of the
                    school in which they have such a large monetary interest? Likewise why did they appoint him as an
                    outside director of a new Foundation they have just established?
            The facts are that this man is unusually statesman-like. He has constantly stood for forward-looking
                    measures but keeps his feet upon the ground with a remarkable degree of acumen. He typifies the best
                    of the conservative thinkers in our nation and so he is maligned just because he refuses to stumble
                    after every will-o-the-wisp of "planned economy." Were a vote taken to discover
                    the most useful and the best loved man in this community, apart from the X's, this man
                    would unquestionably be chosen.
            What about the culture, the pattern of life, of 
                        Muncie
                     as compared to a typical metropolis such as 
                        New York City
                    ? The large city suffers by comparison rather than otherwise. We are fortunate in having
                    a college here and doubly fortunate in having some of the greatest pictures in the world permanently
                    on exhibit through the generosity of one of the X's. From a musical standpoint probably a
                    larger proportion of 
                        Muncie
                     people are interested in good music than is the case in our metropolitan centers, where
                    the support of opera and symphony orchestras is economically possible. Through the Civic Theatre our
                    people get the thrill and satisfaction of bringing at least entertaining drama to their fellow
                    citizens. Why they don't even have fox hunts in Central Park in 
                        New York City
                    !26
            
            The true measure of a community is always its people. 
                  
                     24 Lemuel Arthur Pittenger (1873–1955) was the president of
                            Ball State Teachers College from August 1, 1927, to December 31, 1942.
                  
                     25 Lynd and Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition, 216–17.
                  
                     26 This is a reference to fox hunts in 
                                Muncie
                             sponsored by, among others, William H. Ball. See Margaret Bourke-White,
                            photographer, "
                                Muncie
                            , Ind. Is the Great U.S. 
                                Middletown
                            ," Life, II (May 10, 1937), 20.
               
                     Without a question the worst vice of 
                        Muncie
                     people is their small-town delight in gossip. This is true in churches, clubs, business
                    offices and around lamp posts. Lynd is justly criticized for using this "flannel mouthed
                    gossip" as a prominent business man put it, as the basis for so many of his assertions.
            However, after having said this, if 
                        Muncie
                     is typical in any way of the best of American culture it is in its people. A leading
                    citizen well said that the Lynds applied to this community every device known to the investigator
                    except the stethoscope and thereby they missed its heart, its most vital organ. There is a
                    comraderie about 
                        Muncie
                     people that is heartening. There are differences in physical possessions but the
                    democratic tradition is hale and hearty here. A man is respected for what he is and not for what he
                    has. In our churches, lodges, and community affairs those in high station and low work shoulder to
                    shoulder for the common good, totally devoid thank God, of the poison of class consciousness. The
                    sons of the rich and the sons of the poor sit side by side in the same school, go to the same camp
                    and play in the homes of one another. When the time comes to make the greatest decision in life the
                    sons and daughters of the rich marry those in moderate and even poor circumstances and are
                    themselves strengthened thereby.
            The American frontier of opportunity to rise is not closed to the people of 
                        Muncie
                    , the Lynds to the contrary. We have a splendid group of younger self-made men. The 
                        Muncie
                     youth with ambition finds a hundred helping hands and a thousand cheering voices urging
                    him on. If there is not the chance to rise from the factory floor there once was there are double
                    and triple the chances to get specialized training and come back into responsible positions in the
                    plant.
            There have been numbers of instances in which factory managers have arranged working schedules so
                    that a young man can work six hours at night and take a full course in the local college. There is a
                    boy here that comes definitely to mind. He is from a home of the most limited advantages. His father
                    is paralyzed from the hips down, his mother works in a local factory. Clean, upstanding and hard
                    working his ambition is to be a lawyer. There is only one way for him to attain his goal and that is
                    to work in a local plant and go to college at the same time. This he is doing and some day he will
                    arrive for he has it in him.
            Muncie has its faults, its failures, and its shortcomings, but its people have an abundance of
                    character, that quality that  has made our country great and
                    good. There is much to make our hearts ache, there is much that we need to improve. There is much
                    that we will change for the better. We are on our way and if "we are walking into the
                    future with our faces turned toward the past", we are at least marching forward and the
                    backward look is only to preserve the best in the culture that we have known.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Indiana Newspaper Bibliography: Historical Accounts of All Indiana Newspapers
                        Published from 1804 to 1980 and Locational Information for All Available Copies, Both Original
                        and Microfilm. By John W. Miller. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1982. Pp. xix, 538. Map, bibliographical essay, index of
                    editors and publishers. $25.00.)
            
               Indiana Newspaper Bibliography is a significant contribution to historical
                    scholarship. A bibliography of Hoosier newspapers from the time Elihu Stout commenced the Indiana Gazette at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1804, as the state's initial paper, to 1980, the volume includes about
                    eight thousand titles. To the extent that information was found, data are given concerning
                    variations in titles, mergers, political or other affiliations, and names of editors and publishers.
                    The bibliography also notes where newspapers were published and when they began and ended.
                    Especially helpful to researchers are the listings of newspaper holdings in numerous depositories
                    within Indiana and selected ones elsewhere. This reviewer has already found these listings useful
                    even in locating particular issues of newspapers.
            Much labor over several years was required to compile this comprehensive bibliography. John W.
                    Miller, whose doctoral thesis at Purdue University concerned "The Pioneer Newspapers of
                    Indiana, 1804–1850," was appropriately chosen to head the project. As Miller
                    notes in the preface, "this bibliography should encourage increased interest in Indiana
                    newspapers"; promote the discovery of "‘lost’ issues of
                    newspapers"; and stimulate additional preservation of newspaper files (p. vii). The
                    information from which the bibliography was prepared has been recorded on computer tapes; hence, as
                    more data are obtained, they "can easily be entered on the tapes, and updated printouts of
                    holdings information can be produced quickly and inexpensively" (p. viii). Individuals
                    having further information should share it with the Indiana Historical Society.
            As the title suggests, Indiana Newspaper Bibliography is a bibliography and not a history of the Hoosier press. The compiler wisely
                    forewarns that the "bibliography undoubtedly contains errors…." It
                    could not be otherwise because discrepancies "among sources are common"; however,
                    an effort was made "to rely on actual copies of the newspapers for information,
                    supplemented by the most reliable secondary sources available" (p. vii). Though
                    indispensable as an aid to scholarly  studies of the Hoosier
                    press, additional research in actual newspaper files remains a prerequisite for such studies.
                    Commendation is due Miller and the Indiana Historical Society for this welcome publication, but
                    acknowledgment is also due the late Eli Lilly, whose foresight and benevolence made its compilation
                    and publication possible. If his benevolence is used with a devotion and wisdom even approximating
                    that which he exhibited regarding historical study, his unusually important contributions will be
                    enlarged from decade to decade.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               Beyond Graustark: George Barr McCutcheon, Playwright Discovered. A.L. Lazarus
                    and Victor H. Jones. (
                  Port Washington, N.Y.
               : Kennikat Press, 1981. Pp. xvi, 187.
                    Illustrations, notes, selected bibliography, index. $15.00.)
            Author George Barr McCutcheon is best known for his fiction. His novels, for the most part written in
                    the genre of romantic realism, sold in the millions. Particularly popular was his Graustark series,
                    which chronicled life in a mythical Balkan country. McCutcheon's output was
                    tremendous—he wrote a total of more than forty novels—and his readership was
                    varied. According to the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times (October 24, 1928, p. 24), "college boys, kitchen maids, and
                    daughters of millionaires" found pleasure in his books.
            In contrast to his popularity as a novelist was McCutcheon's reputation as a playwright. He
                    published only two plays during his lifetime, each in limited editions of fewer than one hundred
                    copies. While doing research on another subject A.L. Lazarus discovered a collection of
                    McCutcheon's unpublished play manuscripts in the Purdue University Library. Other such
                    manuscripts were located in the Beinecke Library at Yale University and in the 
                        New York
                     Public Library. Beyond Graustark includes a synopsis and discussion
                    of each of these plays; the authors' main purpose, however, was to evaluate
                    McCutcheon's work as a playwright. The book is also a biographical and literary study, in
                    which the authors relate McCutcheon's life to his writing and evaluate his popularity as a
                    novelist and his apparent failure as a dramatist. They indicate that writing plays was one of his
                    top priorities and that his "heart and best work were in the theater, but the theater was
                    not ready for him or his satires of Victorian mores" (p. xiv).
            For the most part, McCutcheon's plays dealt with social issues such as activist feminism,
                    unnecessary killing of wild  animals, male dominance in family
                    relations, abandoned children, snobbery, and euthanasia. McCutcheon tried again and again to get his
                    plays produced on 
                        Broadway
                     and other places but was not successful. Many of his novels were adapted for the
                    screen, but the legitimate theater continually eluded him. Lazarus and Jones indicate that it was
                    difficult for McCutcheon to accept that "undistinguished plays… by [George] Ade
                    and [Booth] Tarkington achieved successful production on 
                        Broadway
                     while GBMc's plays met with rejection by the 
                        New York
                     theaters" (p. xiv). This rejection was due largely to the fact that the
                    Frohman syndicate owned or controlled most of the theaters in the 
                        United States
                     and the management did not like the controversial subjects of the plays.
            This study of a well-known Indiana author is well written and presents new information. Because of
                    McCutcheon's prominence as a writer, because this is the first biography, and because of
                    the subject, Beyond Graustark is an important book.
            
               
                  
                            Wabash
                         College, 
                            Crawfordsville
                        
                Donald E. Thompson
         
         
            
               The Rise of the Midwestern Meat Packing Industry. By Margaret Walsh. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1982. Pp. x, 182. Tables, maps, appendix, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $14.50.)
            This is an exemplary monograph. Its topic is substantial but limited, its organization and argument
                    absolutely clear, and its documentation thorough. Certainly nobody could want more statistics about
                    meat packing in the Midwest from the 1840s to the 1870s than can be found here. Even historians who
                    prefer words—which are few in this little book—to numbers—which are
                    plentiful—should get a sober pleasure from observing something modest done thoroughly and
                    well.
            The author's argument for the significance of her topic begins with the observation that the
                    history of manufacturing has been studied primarily in mid-Atlantic and 
                        New England
                     settings, while midwestern economic development has been considered mainly in
                    agricultural terms. Those emphases correspond roughly to the actual experiences of the three
                    regions, but understanding the entire history of manufacturing requires at least some attention to
                    its development in the Midwest. Particular attention must be paid to the processing industries, such
                    as meat packing, which led the growth of manufacturing in the middle western region of the country.
                    Processing "disseminated an industrial experience and a modern technology"  (p. 6) that influenced the Midwest long after the early period
                    described here.
            The book focuses on how meat packing changed from a seasonal business, conducted by merchants who had
                    other interests to engage them when the weather was too warm for killing hogs, to a year-round
                    industry dominated by specialized manufacturers. The merchants survived at the end of the process,
                    which came in the 1870s, but they played a limited role in the national market that had emerged by
                    that time.
            The changes in the meat packing industry resulted from new technologies. Railroads extended the areas
                    in which packers could buy animals and sell meat. Some packing centers, such as 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, were encouraged to expand but then found themselves competing with larger
                    places, such as 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which in turn had to compete with 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    . Railroads, therefore, furthered concentration in the industry, most notably in 
                        Chicago
                    .
            Ice packing also shaped the meat packing industry and fostered concentration. In the early 1870s
                    packers began to use natural ice to cool meat, thus removing the industry's old seasonal
                    limitation. Entrepreneurs could afford to invest heavily in facilities that were used throughout the
                    year. Ice packing was superceded by mechanical refrigeration in the 1880s, but "the shape
                    of modern enterprise was visible" (p. 87) in the ice houses of the previous decade.
            Indiana historians should be interested in this study not only because the Hoosier state is within
                    the book's regional scope but also because it contains particular references to the
                    business histories of 
                  Madison, Indianapolis, Lafayette
               , and 
                        Terre Haute
                    . The volume also illuminates the economics of hog raising, which should interest the
                    state's agricultural historians. The book merits an extensive audience among students and
                    teachers of Indiana history.
            
               Indiana University at 
                            South Bend
                        
                Donald B. Marti
         
         
            
               John A. Logan: Stalwart Republican from 
                            Illinois
                        . By James Pickett Jones. (Tallahassee: University Presses of 
                        Florida
                    , for 
                        Florida
                     State University, 1982. Pp. xii, 291. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $20.00.)
            For the most part John A. Logan has not fared well with historians. Union general, congressman,
                    senator, vice-presidential candidate, and founder of the Grand Army of the Republic, the Illinoisan
                    has been depicted as a Democrat who,  in a spirit of political
                    opportunism, turned Radical Republican and became intimately linked with the corruption of the
                    Ulysses S. Grant administration. In this second half of a two-volume biography of the colorful
                    Logan, James Pickett Jones has substantially altered his subject's unfortunate
                    historiographical image.
            Jones's goal is not to absolve "Black Jack" Logan of his sins but to write
                    a balanced account of his postwar career, a career which "defies the neat classifications
                    sometimes accorded him" (p. 227). The author accomplishes this aim. The Logan who emerges
                    in these pages is indeed a patronage boss and machine politician, but he is also a champion of Negro
                    rights and women's suffrage, a fighter for equality despite the fact that such a stand was
                    not politically profitable.
            Since Black Jack was an influential legislative activist, Jones's account touches upon most
                    of the major issues of Gilded Age politics. An antebellum member of Congress, Logan rejoined that
                    body as it approached its zenith of power during Reconstruction. His years on the Hill, during which
                    he "waved the bloody shirt" and became a leader of the Stalwart faction of the
                    GOP, were marked by his opposition to civil service reform, a measure which threatened his efforts
                    "to build a state machine out of the fabric of patronage" (p. 34). The former
                    volunteer general also opposed the professionally dominated regular army, using his position as
                    chairman of the Senate Military Affairs Committee to slash its appropriations.
            Jones is at his best when discussing election politics. He properly stresses the crucial role of
                    state political organizations during the postwar years, and his examination of Logan's
                    construction of a power base in 
                        Illinois
                     and development of a new style of campaigning is penetrating. Students of Indiana
                    politics will especially appreciate glimpses of Hoosiers George W. Julian, Walter Q. Gresham, and
                    particularly Oliver P. Morton, Logan's teammate in the "paper money
                    trinity" of 1874.
            Unfortunately, the volume is not without faults. The writing occasionally lacks clarity and is often
                    uneven, as Jones sacrifices flow in an allegiance to chronology. Moreover, given Logan's
                    central role in the GAR and his use of it for political purposes, one wishes there was more detailed
                    information on this unofficial arm of Republicanism. Still, Jones's work is valuable, for
                    it constitutes a much-needed revisionary portrayal of a flamboyant and powerful Gilded Age figure.
            
               Franklin College, 
                            Franklin
                        , Ind. Lloyd A. Hunter
         
         
         
            
               The Glorious Cause: The American Revolution, 1763–1789. By Robert
                    Middlekauff. Volume II, 
                  
                            Oxford
                         History of the 
                            United States
                        . (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1982. Pp. xvi, 696. Notes, maps, illustrations, bibliographical note,
                    index. $25.00.)
            The challenges accepted by the authors of the 
                  
                            Oxford
                         History of the United States are formidable indeed. According to general
                    editor C. Vann Woodward each historian's purpose is twofold: he is to strive for
                    "a readable text that will be readily accessible to the educated general public"
                    and to "provide students at various levels an interpretative synthesis of the findings of
                    recent scholarship as well as the essentials of narrative history in the period or subject being
                    treated" (p. xvi).
            In The Glorious Cause Robert Middlekauff has achieved the first of these
                    objectives. Despite its length, the narrative is absorbing. Middlekauff describes the disintegration
                    of imperial ties and the military history of the resulting war (to which subjects he devotes the
                    bulk of his book) in colorful detail. He successfully communicates a sense of the profound passion
                    with which Americans took up arms in the service of "the glorious cause."
                    Middlekauff is especially adept in his sympathetic portrait of George Washington as a resourceful
                    man making the best of near-impossible situations. The Glorious Cause is at the
                    very least a lively introduction to the events of the war for independence.
            The book fails, however, to attain the second objective of the 
                        Oxford
                     series: to provide (in Woodward's words) "an interpretative synthesis
                    of recent scholarship" (p. xvi) so that the "modern citizen" will not
                    have to "confront the present and the future with outdated misconceptions of the
                    past" (p. xv). Middlekauff's concentration on British politics and military
                    maneuvers is understandable; they were important. They are not, however, the major subjects with
                    which historians of the Revolution have been concerned in the last twenty years. In focusing upon
                    Parliament and battles Middlekauff has largely ignored the findings and hypotheses of recent
                    historians such as Gary Nash, Eric Foner, and Robert Gross. The concern of these and other
                    scholars—sometimes explicitly, but always implicitly—with Carl
                    Becker's familiar assertion that the Revolution was not just a question of "home
                    rule" but of "who should rule at home" has no place in
                    Middlekauff's book. Instead, he offers a consensual interpretation told from the point of
                    view of political and military leaders.
            
            "To conceive of a republic and to fight for it in a world dominated by monarchy"
                    did, as Middlekauff notes, take "daring and imagination" (p. viii). But the
                    Revolution involved far more than winning independence; it involved defining the specifics of that
                    cause. The history of America from 1763 to 1789 is a story of conflict, conflict with Great Britain
                    and conflict among various groups of Americans with dramatically different notions about the nature
                    and viability of a republic.
            Ultimately, this book is troubling because its story is so familiar. It does little to close the
                    ever-widening gap between the findings and arguments of academic historians and the general American
                    perception of the Revolution as a thoroughly harmonious and successful, almost benign, affair.
                    Although general readers will enjoy The Glorious Cause, they will be neither surprised nor
                    challenged by it.
            
               Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        , Ind. Andrew R. L. Cayton
         
         
            
               Self–Help in the 1890s Depression. By H. Roger Grant. (Ames: 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1983. Pp. xii, 163. Illustrations, maps, notes, index.
                    Paperbound, $11.95.)
            Americans have always prided themselves on being an inventive and self-reliant people. The puttering
                    mechanic who stumbles upon a major discovery, the "can-do" small business man who
                    creates from a corner store a major company—these are but a few of the stock cliches of
                    our culture. H. Roger Grant's book examines this cultural image but does so within the
                    pointed context of the major depression of the 1890s. Such an approach is of historical interest
                    and, as Grant argues in his conclusion, is of considerable interest for contemporary Americans as
                    well.
            Grant examines five types of self-help during the 1890s: the establishment of community gardens in
                    America's cities to provide food for the unemployed; the creation of labor exchanges and
                    cooperative stores; the attempts to build farmer-owned railroads; and the efforts by a number of
                    Americans to live in cooperative communities. Considered as a descriptive vignette, the book is
                    frequently interesting and informative. The chapter on labor exchanges, for example, is in the main
                    a discussion of the career of Giovanni Battista De Bernardi, an obscure but interesting reformer. An
                    Italian immigrant who lived in 
                        Missouri
                     and was influenced by the Granger movement and by Edward Bellamy, De Bernardi saw in
                    the labor exchange  both a source of short-term help for the
                    unemployed as well as a model for the potential restructuring of American society in general. A
                    similar point might be made of Grant's description of the career of Charles W. Caryl, a
                    businessman, inventor, and social worker who tried to establish a Utopian community in the last
                    years of the depression. In these and a few other sketches Grant's writing is direct; and,
                    within the confines of the limited documentation, he resuscitates examples of some of the
                    lesser-known reform efforts.
            Taken as a whole, however, the book is not very convincing. The social meaning of these experiments
                    and the interrelationship between them and other, better-known protest efforts is not clearly
                    presented. Throughout the book, for example, Grant argues that the various attempts at self-help
                    faltered with the return of prosperity; but he also argues (p. 86), following Lawrence Goodwyn, that
                    such efforts were the result not of "hard times" but rather of "insurgent
                    cultures." What then, one asks, happened to that insurgency with the ending of
                    "hard times"? What makes this interpretative confusion even odder is that Grant
                    recognizes that the only successful "farmer-owned railroad" he discovered was, in
                    reality, a de facto subsidiary of James J. Hill's Great Northern empire.
                    This realization, however, does not temper his conclusion where, against the background of the near
                    total failure of these self-help experiments, he asserts that his evidence suggests that
                    "there truly exists a way to combat powerlessness, that nameless dread" (p. 140).
                    That may well be true, but there is little evidence for such an assumption in the book.
            
               
                  
                            New York
                         State School of Industrial and Labor Relations, Cornell University, 
                            Ithaca
                        , N.Y. Nick Salvatore
         
         
            
               Reshaping America: Society and Institutions, 1945–1960. Edited by
                    Robert H. Bremner and Gary W. Reichard. (
                        Columbus
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     State University Press, 1982. Pp. xii, 403. Tables, notes, index. $22.50.)
            Inaugurating a new series, U.S.A. 20/21: Studies in Recent American History, this
                    volume is concerned with change, continuity, and complexity during the first decade and a half after
                    World War II. In stimulating essays fourteen historians point out that in various ways the 
                        United States
                     in 1960 differed  significantly from what it had
                    been in 1945. The demographic changes appear especially large.
            The range of topics illustrates how complex the American historical profession has become. There is
                    much here on social history, a major interest of contemporary historians. Thus, Robert H. Bremner
                    writes on families and children during a "familistic" period; Leila J. Rupp shows
                    that feminism survived but only as a weak movement; William H. Chafe probes the burgeoning civil
                    rights movement; and Thomas E. Williams explores the shrinking differences between rural and urban
                    life.
            The book also demonstrates that political history still flourishes—and in some new ways.
                    James T. Patterson's essay on poverty and welfare and Mark I. Gelfand's on cities
                    and suburbs, to cite two illustrations, are concerned with public policy. The contributions of
                    Eugene J. Watts and Kenneth M. Jones reveal historians' rising interests in "Cops
                    and Crooks" and "The Government-Science Complex." Gary W.
                    Reichard's chapter reflects the influence of 
                        Vietnam
                    , Watergate, and new views of Dwight D. Eisenhower by expressing concern about the
                    growth of presidential power during Eisenhower's and Harry S. Truman's
                    presidencies; and Bernard Sternsher, in a discussion of parties and voters, testifies to the
                    influence of political science on the present generation of political historians.
            Although the book does not contain an essay on foreign policy, it includes much on the Cold
                    War's large impact on American life. This impact is, in fact, one of the major themes.
                    Thus, Roland Marchand concludes: "Beset by cold war fears and organizational complexities,
                    Americans found solace in a popular culture that provided hopeful visions of an emerging
                    classlessness and vicarious compensations for a hedged-in, manipulated feeling" (p. 182),
                    and Ronald Lora writes: "Of the various factors causally significant in effecting
                    curriculum change, the cold war was the preeminent catalyst" (p. 253). John Barnard
                    presents the international conflict as a giant factor in the lives of workers and the labor
                    movement, and Arthur M. Johnson ends his positive appraisal of business in the period with a
                    suggestion that a major event in the Cold War—the launching of
                    Sputnik—"marked the end of a business-dominated era…. the partnership
                    between government and business, forged during World War II and continued at a reduced level through
                    the 1950s, tilted increasingly toward government as the senior partner, making it a major  source of demand and funding for private enterprise"
                    (p. 112). The book presents many similarly exciting ideas.
            
               
                  
                            Iowa
                         State University, Ames Richard S. Kirkendall
         
         
            
               Race and Manifest Destiny: The Origins of American Racial
                    Anglo–Saxonism. By Reginald Horsman. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1981. Pp. 367. Notes, index. $22.50.)
            America's Founding Fathers talked and wrote of their world mission to spread republicanism.
                    By the 1850s a new generation of American leaders was less concerned with the liberation of other
                    peoples by the spreading of republicanism than with the limitless expansion of an allegedly superior
                    American race over supposedly inferior ones. Historian Reginald Horsman's Race
                        and Manifest Destiny probes the origins of pre-Civil War American racialism and its impact
                    on the course of American expansion.
            In Part I Horsman demonstrates that colonial Americans inherited the myth of a free Anglo-Saxon past
                    that had been nurtured by English clergymen to justify their break with 
                        Rome
                    . In struggling to separate themselves from the government of Great Britain, American
                    revolutionaries generally believed that they were contending for principles of liberty introduced
                    into 
                        England
                     more than a thousand years earlier by Anglo-Saxons from 
                        Germany
                    .
            Horsman reveals in Part II how the belief that Americans were the most distinguished descendants of
                    the Anglo-Saxons grew in the decades after the Revolution and how the belief that expansion was an
                    integral part of American destiny permeated American thinking. Between 1815 and 1850 American
                    writers found the guiding principle in their nation's history in the love of liberty
                    supposedly characteristic of Germanic peoples and in the alleged innate ability of Anglo-Saxons to
                    enshrine liberty in free institutions. Outside of 
                        New England
                     and areas in the Old Northwest where its influence was strong, theories of
                    Teutonic-Anglo-Saxon greatness, which developed as part of the Romantic movement and the new
                    "scientific" theories of race espoused by such scholars as Samuel G. Morton,
                    provided a convenient rationale for holding blacks in bondage and mistreating Indians. Even New
                    Englanders such as Ralph Waldo Emerson, who shunned extreme racial arguments, believed in
                    "the moral peculiarity of the Saxon race" (p. 178).
            Part III focuses on the American Anglo-Saxon political  ideology
                    that rigorously excluded nonwhite races from equal participation in the American republic. Horsman
                    argues that the remarkable expansion, development, and rise to power of the 
                        United States
                     during the three quarters of a century following the American Revolution had turned the
                    republican optimism of the Founding Fathers into arrogance. Racial Anglo-Saxonism provided a
                    convenient justification for America's internal and external subjugation of
                    "inferior" peoples.
            
               Race and Manifest Destiny is a well-documented, in-depth study of antebellum racial
                    thought which challenges the older view of historians that racial Anglo-Saxonism was not
                    intellectually ascendant in American thought before the Civil War. Although Horsman acknowledges the
                    presence of "a confused minority" who did not believe "the bombast, the
                    arrogance, the shallow thought" (p. 269) of the antebellum Anglo-Saxonists, more attention
                    needs to be paid to those who refused to condemn other races to permanent inferiority. Nevertheless,
                    Horsman has made a very important contribution to the understanding of antebellum racial thought.
            
               The University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , Eau Claire Ronald N. Satz
         
         
            
               The Harder We Run: Black Workers since the Civil War. By William H. Harris. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1982. Pp. ix, 259. Figures, tables, notes, appendix, guide to further
                    reading, index. $17.95.)
            This brief economic history of black Americans is a work of synthesis. The author relies largely on
                    relevant secondary works and government publications to chronicle the struggles of black workers.
                    The survey is leavened, however, by materials and insights drawn from the author's research
                    on A. Philip Randolph and the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters.
            William H. Harris states that his book "is about the racism that has made it impossible for
                    blacks to participate fully in American society" (pp. 3–4). He takes his title
                    from the first half of the lament, "The harder we run, the farther we fall
                    behind." Harris demonstrates the appropriateness of both parts of this saying in describing
                    the economic experiences of black Americans since emancipation. His analysis focuses on employment
                    trends, the relationship of black workers to the trade union movement, and organized efforts by
                    blacks to change employment patterns and to fight discrimination by trade unions.
            
            Harris begins his survey with an analysis of the efforts of the former slaves to enter the labor
                    force as free workers and of the beginning of their continuing struggle to keep from being relegated
                    to the status of a reserve labor supply. The struggle has been against employers who have exploited
                    black workers and against fellow white workers who refused to close ranks with black workers. There
                    have been periods that brought hope for improvement. Black workers achieved an actual and a symbolic
                    victory in 1925 with the organization of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters. Jobs in northern
                    and southern industries opened during both world wars, and black Americans shared the prosperity of
                    the Korean War years. There were also gains made in the struggle to develop class solidarity among
                    black and white workers. These advances came, in part, through the work of such organizations as the
                    NAACP and the National Urban League, through organized groups of black workers within the labor
                    movement, and through changes in governmental policies, beginning with the New Deal.
            Even so, as the author warns, "this is not an optimistic book" (p. 6). He finds
                    that by 1980 the "future prospects for most workers were about as bleak as they had been
                    when Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation" and that "after more than a
                    century of struggle little had been done to limit the impact of race on employment and
                    income" (pp. 188–89). Harris tells a story that is familiar to students of
                    Afro-American history, but he tells it cogently and succinctly.
            
               University of 
                     Missouri,
                                Columbia
                  
                Arvarh E.
                Strickland
         
         
            
               Black Leaders of the Twentieth Century. Edited by John Hope Franklin and August
                    Meier. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1982. Pp. xi, 372. Illustrations, notes on sources, notes, index.
                    $19.95.)
            This anthology analyzes the careers of fifteen nationally prominent twentieth-century black leaders.
                    Although the contributors to this volume each studied a different individual, all of them, as 
                        Franklin
                     and Meier write in their introduction, were asked "to examine the kind of role
                    played by his or her subject in the struggle for black advancement," how each
                    "functioned as a leader of blacks and—where relevant—as a mobilizer
                    of white support" (p. x). The result is a useful, but ultimately disappointing, compendium
                    of current knowledge about black leadership in the 
                        United States
                    .
            The essays in Black Leaders of the Twentieth Century treat  a variety of leaders, leadership styles, programs, and
                    strategies—individuals whose influence emanated from their organizational affiliation;
                    accommodationists, nationalists, and integrationists; persons who inspired and manipulated others
                    through their charismatic appeal; politicians, ministers, and journalists; and persons who rose to
                    prominence through business, labor, and the professions. This collection of essays is also diverse
                    in method. Most of the authors employ traditional biographical techniques, but a few use social
                    science concepts and models to illuminate the major achievements of their subjects.
            Inevitably, the quality of the essays varies. Among the best are Emma Lou Thornbrough's
                    "T. Thomas Fortune," Darlene Hine's contribution on the little-known
                    nurse and civil rights activist Mable K. Staupers, Genna Rae McNeil's study of lawyer and
                    legal strategist Charles H. Houston, and B. Joyce Ross's insightful "Mary McLeod
                    Bethune and the National Youth Administration." Other authors discuss the activities of
                    Booker T. Washington, W.E.B. DuBois, Ida B. Wells-Barnett, Charles C. Spaulding, Marcus Garvey,
                    Whitney M. Young, Jr., A. Philip Randolph, James Weldon Johnson, Martin Luther King, Jr., Malcolm X,
                    and Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. All the essays are well written and provide useful bibliographical
                    information for readers wanting additional information about the black leaders discussed in the
                    book.
            The major disappointment with this anthology is its inadequate unifying conceptual framework. In
                    their introduction 
                        Franklin
                     and Meier do identify some common themes, but, provocative as those few pages are, they
                    leave the reader unsatisfied. The volume needs, either at the beginning or end, a synthetic essay in
                    which the disparate contributions are put into a general context and the results of the research are
                    assessed in terms of both method and substance. If that final essay were written, it might be
                    possible to make a case for a research strategy into the history of black leadership that would
                    result in a theoretical paradigm for examining this important subject.
            This criticism aside, Black Leaders is a book that should be read by historians and
                    nonhistorians alike. The analysis of black leadership will be undertaken best in the way charted in
                    this collection; that is, through the compilation of case studies. Nonetheless, surely not too far
                    in the future, a systematic synthesis of existing studies should be written, if only as a framework
                    for future research.
            
               Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapoli Monroe H. Little,
                Jr.
         
         
         
            
               The Code of the West. By Bruce A. Rosenberg. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1982. Pp. 213. Notes. $15.00.)
            Folklorist Bruce A. Rosenberg declares that the chief purpose of his book is "to give
                    structure, order, hierarchy, and purpose to several events, individuals, and institutions of the
                    American West" (p. 1). He candidly admits that his book will offer no major new
                    understanding of the frontier experience, but by interpreting several famous western symbols he
                    hopes to explain their continuing popularity.
            Rosenberg's eleven chapters explore the exploits of mountain men, the dreams of prospectors,
                    the narratives of overlanders, the endurance of Mormons, the courage of George Armstrong Custer, the
                    speed of the Pony Express, the race of two 
                        Mississippi
                     steamboats, the accomplishments of the railroaders, the infamy of the gunfighters, the
                    dream of the sensual native maiden, and the myth of the white stallion of the prairies. There is
                    often little to connect these chapters so that the book is really a collection of disparate essays.
                    Any of them could stand alone, and in fact three have been previously published in journals, while
                    the Custer chapter presents nothing not said better in Rosenberg's excellent Custer and the Epic of Defeat (1975). The chapter on the race between the steamboats Natchez and Robert E. Lee has little, if anything, to do with
                    the West at all, belonging more to southern folklore. This disjointed narrative makes it impossible
                    for the author to achieve his goal of giving order and structure to the past.
            The notes are quite brief, reflecting the use of a limited number of materials. The sources that are
                    used are often a strange mixture of folklore, popular culture, and academic and pop history. The
                    consistent misspelling of the names of well-known historians Sandra Myres and Robert Athearn in the
                    text and notes makes the reader wonder about how familiar the author is with these materials. The
                    depth of his research is further clouded because either he or his publisher decided against
                    including a bibliography. That is too bad, as was the decision not to include an index.
            Although an attractively produced book on a worthy topic by a noted scholar, Code of the
                        West ultimately promises more than it can deliver in under two hundred pages of text.
                    Rosenberg never seems to have enough space to develop his arguments. While several of his chapters
                    are interesting, even engaging, the book ultimately fails to live up to its potential.
            
               
                  
                            Utah
                         State University, Logan Paul A. Hutton
         
         
         
            
               Shadows of the Indian: Stereotypes in American Culture. By Raymond William
                    Stedman. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1982. Pp. xix, 281. Notes, illustrations, appendix, bibliography, indexes.
                    $24.95.)
            
               Shadows of the Indian by Raymond William Stedman deals with an important subject.
                    In The Pretend Indians (1980), edited by Gretchen M. Bataille and Charles L.P.
                    Silet, Vine Deloria points out: "The whites are sincere but they are only sincere about
                    what they are interested in, not about Indians about whom they know very little. They get
                    exceedingly angry if you try to tell them the truth and will only reject you and keep searching
                    until they find the Indian of their fantasies" (p. xv). Stedman's Shadows of the Indian is about these fantasies.
            Similar to such studies as Roy Harvey Pearce's Savagism and Civilization: A
                        Study of the Indian and the American Mind (1965) and Robert F. Berkhofer's The White Man's Indian (1979), Shadows of the Indian
                    searches for white stereotypes of Indians in paintings, sermons, literature, and plays from the
                    fifteenth and sixteenth centuries to the present. Unlike Pearce and Berkhofer, however, Stedman goes
                    beyond a survey of these sources to examine contemporary modes of popular expression: movies,
                    advertisements, cartoons, paperback novels, radio, and television. The chapters—each
                    following a trajectory of images from contact to today—are divided according to theme or
                    stereotype. For example, "La Belle Sauvage" and "Men Friday" are
                    devoted to views of Indian women and men; "Indian Talk" examines linguistic
                    stereotypes; and "Lust Between the Bookends" and "You Know What They Do
                    To White Women" explore sexual images.
            This study of racial and cultural stereotyping of the Indian in American culture is recounted with
                    both wit and irony and makes delightful reading. Unfortunately, there is little trenchant analysis
                    of how the stereotypes functioned in the dominant culture or even how they affected Native
                    Americans. Despite this criticism, however, Stedman has in lucid prose and with excellent
                    illustrations provided an extensive catalog of Indian stereotypes, especially as perpetuated in the
                    various media over the last three decades. As an aid to the student of Indian-white relations,
                    Stedman also includes a chronology of literary and historical works on Native Americans in a brief
                    appendix. Shadows of the Indian is a useful contribution to the study of American
                    culture and to American perceptions of the Indian.
            
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Robert E. Bieder
         
         
         
            
               Material Culture Studies in America. Compiled and edited by Thomas J. Schlereth. (
                        Nashville
                    : American Association for State and Local History, 1982. Pp. xvi, 419. Tables,
                    bibliographical essay, notes, index. Clothbound, $22.95; paperbound, $15.00.)
            Historians have long been bewildered by or opposed to the use of objects as evidence through which to
                    interpret the past. Trained to employ documents which provide verbal descriptions, historians
                    generally have believed physical artifacts to be ambiguous and uncertain sources of information. In
                    the past two decades, however, as their attention has turned from leadership elites to the mass of
                    ordinary people, historians have begun to realize that artifacts can provide valuable insights into
                    social practices and patterns. Furthermore, objects—such as tools, toys, and buildings,
                    as well as photographs of them— are often available where written documents were never
                    created or have been lost. The historian's problem remains, however: how to extract
                    reliable information about the past from an inanimate, inarticulate object.
            Earlier, in a collection of his own innovative, stimulating essays, Artifacts and the
                        American Past (1980), Thomas J. Schlereth, professor of American Studies at Notre Dame
                    University, encouraged historians to use the material remains of past cultures in their research and
                    teaching. Now he has gathered together, from scattered and often obscure locations, some of the best
                    writing of the past quarter century by historians, museum curators, and others interested in
                    artifacts. This anthology, which begins with Schlereth's own essay deftly summarizing the
                    history of material culture studies over the last century, offers instructive and thought-provoking
                    discussions of the philosophy, methodology, and specific applications of artifactual study. Included
                    are pioneering and still valuable statements of theory by John Kouwenhoven, E. McClung Fleming, and
                    others and a variety of outstanding examples of artifactual analysis. Craig Gilborn's study
                    of the Coca-Cola bottle, Kenneth Ames's discussion of Victorian hall furnishings, Ruth
                    Schwartz Cowan's analysis of the advent of modern household technology and the consequences
                    for women's domestic roles, and Bruce Lohof's consideration of gas station
                    architecture are particularly rewarding.
            Schlereth has assembled the first real textbook for material culture studies. He has rescued from
                    obscurity fine, instructive essays such as Glen Holt's "
                        Chicago
                     through a Camera Lens: An Essay on Photography as History."
                    Schlereth's splendid introduction  to each of the
                    twenty-three essays provide coherence and add depth to the anthology. His helpful bibliography
                    suggests where to turn next. Unfortunately, the illustrations which would seem essential to
                    accompany discussions of artifacts are notably absent. Despite that rather serious deficiency, this
                    is the best available starting place for anyone interested in learning how to use the material past.
                    It will not erase all historians' doubts about the ambiguity and uncertainty of
                    artifactually derived information, but it effectively demonstrates the potential for material
                    culture study to complement other historical inquiry.
            
               The University of Akron, Akron, 
                            Ohio
                        
                David E. Kyvig
         
         
            
               Nearby History: Exploring the Past around You. By David E. Kyvig and Myron A.
                    Marty. (
                        Nashville
                    : American Association for State and Local History, 1982. Pp. xiii, 300. Illustrations,
                    notes, maps, figures, appendixes, index. $15.95.)
            Local history, once the exclusive domain of the amateur, has become in the last twenty years a field
                    of interest for professional historians seeking a manageable area in which to test interdisciplinary
                    hypotheses and to study non-elites. More recently, historians have begun to author "how
                    to" volumes directed at teachers, amateurs, and colleagues. Nearby
                    History is the most recent entry in this new market. Authored by knowledgeable and experienced
                    professionals who have previously collaborated, the book aims "to bring together historical
                    studies of the family, the community, and material culture" (p. ix). Instead of organizing
                    the book thematically, Kyvig and Marty emphasize the types of evidence available for research and
                    the ways in which they can be used through separate chapters on published documents, unpublished
                    sources, oral records, visual material, artifacts, and landscapes and buildings. An excellent
                    introductory chapter includes a useful list and arrangement of questions about family,
                    organizations, and community and provides a valuable source for beginning research.
            Unfortunately, in so brief a survey, it is difficult to cover each topic thoroughly; thus, the
                    authors are forced to alternate between an introduction to the subject and a recitation of practical
                    suggestions for the novice. Such an approach might have worked better had the supporting
                    material—captioned illustrations and excerpts from different sources—been more
                    closely tied to the text. Captions frequently raise but do not answer a  number of questions of interpretation and analysis. The text introduces
                    the reader to various materials, their origins and preservation, but it does not provide the
                    direction most needed by the developing historian—guidance in using the materials
                    profitably. The novice is not shown how to apply deductive skills or to evaluate inferential clues
                    to reach historical insights, nor is the person who has moved beyond the elementary given sufficient
                    guidance for acquiring deeper understanding. Fewer examples, elaborated in more detail, of just how
                    historians evaluate different kinds of evidence would have given the reader a better appreciation of
                    the possibilities and limitations of nearby history.
            Readers of this volume should also consult other complementary publications of the American
                    Association for State and Local History, such as Thomas E. Felt's Researching,
                        Writing, and Publishing Local History (1981), H.G. Jones's Local
                        Government Records (1980), Fay D. Metcalf and Matthew T. Downey's Using Local History in the Classroom (1982), David J. Russo's Families and Communities (1974), and Thomas J. Schlereth's Material
                        Culture Studies in America (1982). Together they serve as a practitioner's guide
                    to the study of local history.
            
               University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        -Parkside Nicholas C. Burckel
         
         
            
               Ordinary Americans: From Kohl to Cole, 1790–1980; with Pertinent
                        Information on Related Families. By Charles E. Cole. (
                        Nashville
                    : Coleoptera Press, 1981. Pp. 77. Maps, notes, illustrations, appendixes, index.
                    Paperbound, $20.00.)
            
               Ordinary Americans is Charles Cole's own family history. The first
                    ancestor he can locate is his great-grandfather, Jacob Kohl of 
                        Montgomery County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                     (1795–1871), but the person who did more to shape later generations was
                    Kohl's son, Jacob Cole (1835–1908), who moved from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to northern 
                        Illinois
                     in 1856 and to 
                        Denton County
                    , 
                        Texas
                    , in 1882. The author himself was born and raised in 
                        Texas
                    . The book is filled with detailed information about collateral descendants of Jacob
                    Kohl as well as the author's own line. One sometimes loses one's way in the tangle
                    of Kinnomen; but photographs, genealogical charts, and attempts to capture
                    something of the individuality of many family members make this family history more readable than
                    most. Cole uses letters and diaries from the nineteenth century as well as oral-history
                    interviewing. When  short on information about his ancestors, he
                    employs secondary sources to suggest what life might have been like for them.
            Two things struck this reviewer. First, how brief is American history! Charles Cole's grandfather was the pioneer who began in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and crossed the plains to 
                        Texas
                    . The great events of our past are encompassed in about three or four lifetimes! Second,
                    how fragile are family bonds. Migration could easily break parent-child ties for good. Cole reprints
                    a letter from Jacob Cole's mother to Jacob after he had moved to 
                        Illinois
                    . She lists for him his various nieces and nephews; apparently he is unaware of their
                    existence back in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Jacob "burned his bridges," as author Cole points out; frontier
                    individualism and rejection of the past often implied rejection of the family.
            Charles Cole's own attitude is not particularly reverential toward his family history; he
                    has the scholar's detachment. That attitude seems thoroughly in keeping with contemporary
                    culture and with the history of the Coles.
            
               Carleton College, Northfield, Minn. Kirk Jeffrey
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               The Best of James Whitcomb Riley. Edited by Donald C. Manlove. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1982. Pp. xx, 202. Illustrations. Clothbound,
                    $15.00; paperbound, $7.95.) In his preface, editor Donald C. Manlove sets
                    forth the criteria he used in choosing the pieces to be published in this book: "the poems
                    most frequently anthologized, Mr. Riley's particular favorites, and the favorites of the
                    editor" were selected with a view to producing a "balanced picture of the whole
                    range of Riley's work" (p. ix). The resulting volume admirably reflects this
                    intention. The poems which constitute the bulk of the volume are published in chronological order,
                    and they are well chosen to show the range of techniques and subjects that Riley employed during his
                    career. The last section of the book comprises three prose selections. Also included is a brief
                    biographical sketch of Riley. Gary L. Bailey, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               
                  
                            Michigan City
                        , Indiana: The Life of a Town. By Gladys Bull Nicewarner. ([
                        Michigan City
                    , Ind.]: The author, [1980]. Pp. 365. Figures, illustrations, maps, notes, appendixes,
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $21.50; paperbound, $19.50.) This volume
                    surveys the history of 
                        Michigan City
                     from the days of its first settlers to the present. Included is a wealth of information
                    on local institutions, organizations, economic development, and notable people. The book is
                    distributed by the 
                        Michigan City
                     Historical Society, P.O. Box 512, 
                        Michigan City
                    , Indiana 46360. Gary L. Bailey, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Hoosier Folk Legends. By Ronald L. Baker. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1982. Pp. xix, 264. Notes, illustrations, sources and notes.
                    $15.00.) Drawing on the files of the Indiana Federal Writers Project of the WPA, as well
                    as reports of field workers, Ronald L. Baker has gathered over three hundred folk legends which have
                    been circulated in Indiana. Some of the legends included date back many years, while others are of
                    recent origin. In many cases variants of the same tale are presented. An introduction provides a
                    general classification scheme for the legends presented here and discusses some of their most common
                    themes. Gary L. Bailey, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
