
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 28, Issue 1, pages 1-71. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:28+issue:1+year:1932&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Juvenile Court Movement in Indiana1
            
            By JUDGE JAMES A. COLLINS
            
            The creation of a separate court for the trial of juvenile offenders in Indiana was brought about
                    largely through the efforts of George W. Stubbs, who was elected Police Judge of the City of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the fall of 1901. Judge Stubbs had not been in office very long until he was
                    astounded at the large number of children brought into that court charged with violating city
                    ordinances and state laws. The condition confronting him at that time suggested that there should be
                    some better method devised for the handling of juvenile offenders. The arresting of boys and girls
                    and sending them to the station house in the patrol wagon and lodging them in the City Prison was
                    abhorrent to his sense of justice.
            His first efforts to bring about a change in these conditions was to secure the co-operation of the
                    Chief of Police in preventing the arrest and detention of children in the City Prison. George A.
                    Taffe, then serving as Chief of Police under Mayor Charles A. Bookwalter, worked out a plan under
                    which patrolmen were instructed, when arresting boys and girls under sixteen years of age, to take
                    them to their homes and instruct the parents to bring them to the police court on the Friday
                    following at 2 o'clock. Judge Stubbs had set apart the afternoon of this day each week for
                    the trial of juvenile offenders. While this plan was only an experiment it was the means of
                    attracting attention to the handling of a new and growing problem in the larger cities of the
                    country.
            It was while he was experimenting with juvenile offenders in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , that Judge Stubbs learned of the splendid work that was being carried on in 
                        Chicago
                     under the direction 
                  
                     1 This paper was read at 
                                Indianapolis
                             before the Indiana Historical Society on December 12, 1081.
               
                     of Richard S. Tuthill, Judge of the Cook County Circuit Court. In
                    August of 1902, accompanied by the writer and Wm. M. Herschell of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, Judge Stubbs went to 
                        Chicago
                     and spent three days there watching the proceedings and gathering information that
                    would help in dealing with the problem in Indiana. Judge Tuthill explained the plan by which the
                    Juvenile Court of 
                        Chicago
                     had been brought into existence. Under the Board of Children's Guardian Act of 
                        Illinois
                    , the Circuit Courts of that state had jurisdiction in all cases of delinquent and
                    dependent children, and had the power to place them in homes and institutions. This work increased
                    as the years went by and, in order to facilitate the work and give more attention to the individual
                    problems presented, Judge Tuthill set apart the sessions of Wednesday and Thursday afternoons for
                    the consideration of the juvenile cases.
            It was not long until they became known as the Juvenile Court sessions of the Cook County Circuit
                    Court. Through these efforts he laid the foundation for the Juvenile Court movement in the 
                        United States
                    .
            When dealing with conditions in 
                        Illinois
                     before the enactment of this legislation, Professor Lou, in his work on juvenile
                    courts, wrote: 
                        The Juvenile Court Act of 1899 was the culmination of nearly ten years' efforts on
                            the part of persons interested in the problem of juvenile delinquency. It was not without a
                            fight that the cause was finally won.
                        By 1899 the conditions in the State of 
                                Illinois
                             were not more deplorable than those in other states. In 
                                Illinois
                             the delinquent child between ten and sixteen years of age was still considered
                            a criminal as far as arrest, detention, and trial were concerned. He could still be sent to
                            a house of correction (city prison) to a county jail, or to a state reformatory. It was
                            estimated that in the year 1898, there were 575 children charged with offenses confined in
                            the county jail of Cook County. For the twenty months ending November 1, 1898, there were
                            committed to the house of correction of the City of 
                                Chicago
                             1,983 boys….2
                  
                    
            
            To meet this situation a body of socially minded women and lawyers began in the early nineties to
                    study earnestly the problem of juvenile delinquency and to propose a separate court for children.
                    Mr. Lou adds: 
                        After some unsuccessful efforts, a committee was appointed in 1898, by the 
                                Chicago
                             Bar Association, at the request of the State Board of 
                        
                           2 Herbert H. Lou, Juvenile Courts in the 
                                            United States
                                        
                            (1927). 20.
                     
                             Charities, to make a thorough survey of the situation.
                            Judge Harvey B. Hurd was selected as chairman of the committee and Dr. Hastings H. Hart as
                            secretary. Principally prepared by Dr. Hart, revised by the committee, and highly endorsed
                            by various organizations, the bill with some amendments was passed and became a law on July
                            1, 1899.3
                  
                    
            
            This piece of legislation in 
                        Illinois
                    , was the first juvenile court law in the 
                        United States
                    , enacted in the interest of dependent, neglected, and delinquent children. It was made
                    to apply to all children under sixteen years of age "not now or hereafter, inmates of a
                    State Institution or any training school for boys or industrial school for girls, or some
                    institution incorporated under the laws of this State."
            Jurisdiction was conferred upon all of the Circuit and County Courts of the state and provision was
                    made for trial by a jury of six. In Counties having over 500,000 population the Judges of the
                    Circuit Coure were required, at such times as they should determine, to designate one or more of
                    their number whose duty it should be to hear all cases coming under the provisions of the act. A
                    special court room to be designated as the juvenile court room, was provided for the hearing of such
                    cases and the findings of the court were to be entered in a book or books for that purpose, to be
                    known as the juvenile record, and the law stated that the court might for convenience be called the
                    "Juvenile Court."
            Provision was made for the appointment of probation officers to serve without compensation and also
                    for the transfer of cases from Justice of the Peace couPts and police magistrates, of all children
                    contemplated by the act. A further provision was made prohibiting the incarceration of any child
                    under the age of twelve years in any county jail.4
            
            Enthused over his visit to 
                        Chicago
                    , Judge Stubbs determined that he must have better quarters than his official chambers
                    to work out his plans for handling juvenile delinquents, and, with the approval of the Board of
                    Public Safety, a room on the third floor of the Police Station, was fitted up as a court room.
                    Existing without any law upon the subject, this embryo court laid the foundation for a juvenile
                    court work that was soon to attract national attention.
            The socially minded men and women of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who had encouraged this movement recognized the fact that it 
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 21.
                  
                     4
                            Acts of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 1899 (approved April 21).
               
                     would be difficult to secure the enactment of the contemplated
                    legislation, if the jurisdiction of the court was to be limited to cases arising in the Police
                    Court. Under the Board of Children's Guardian Act of Indiana, the Circuit Courts of the
                    state had jurisdiction in all cases involving delinquent and dependent children; the Criminal Court
                    had jurisdiction of all cases of incorrigible children and confirmed truants, and the Justices of
                    Peace had concurrent jurisdiction with the Criminal Court to punish any parent, guardian or
                    custodian of any child for violating the compulsory education act. This diversity of jurisdiction
                    tended to the punishment of the child and failed to reach and overcome the influences responsible
                    for delinquency.
            To prepare legislation that would co-ordinate all of these laws and place juvenile cases under the
                    jurisdiction of a single court was the aim and purpose of the friends of the movement. The
                    suggestion that all of the cases coming under the several existing authorities be administered in a
                    single court, met with opposition, but under the leadership of the late John H. Holliday, a meeting
                    was called at the office of the Union Trust Company. It was attended by Hugh H. Hanna, Thomas C.
                    Day, John L. Griffith, Martin M. Hugg, Senator Charles N. Thompson, Mrs. Julia Goodhart, Rev. Allan
                    B. Phillput, Judge Henry Clay Allen, Judge Fremont Alford, and James A. Collins. Definite steps were
                    taken to urge the enactment of the Senate Bill prepared by Senator Thompson, which covered every
                    phase of the problem of the dependent and neglected child and the juvenile delinquent.
            This meeting crystalized sentiment for the passage of the measure and while it met with minor
                    opposition in the House and Senate, it was passed, and approved, by the Governor on March 10, 1903.
                    This act like the 
                        Illinois
                     law placed juvenile jurisdiction in all the Circuit Courts of the State, except in 
                        Marion County
                    , where provision was made for a separate court. Thus the first separate court created
                    in this country for the exclusive trial of cases involving children was established in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            So much publicity has been given to the Juvenile Court of 
                        Denver
                    , and its former Judge Ben B. Lindsay, that the general impression prevails, not only in
                    Indiana, but elsewhere, that the juvenile court movement had its origin in the Rocky Mountains.
                    Three days before the enactment of the law providing  for a
                    separate Juvenile Court for 
                        Marion County
                    , Indiana, the Legislature of 
                        Colorado
                     enacted a law conferring jurisdiction upon all of the County Judges of the state in
                    juvenile cases. This measure was similar to the 
                        Illinois
                     law of 1899.
            Professor Lou in his work on juvenile courts, above referred to, states that the 
                        Denver
                     Juvenile Court was the next pioneer juvenile court to be established after 
                        Illinois
                    .5 Why this student of juvenile courts should have fallen into this
                    error, it is difficult to understand. The 
                        Illinois
                     law did not create a separate Juvenile Court in the sense that superior and probate
                    courts are created, but simply made provision for circuit judges to hold such courts as were
                    outlined in the 
                        Illinois
                     law. The 
                        Colorado
                     Legislature did not create a separate court in 1903, but on April 3, 1907, four years
                    after the Juvenile Court of 
                        Marion County
                    , Indiana, had been started, and after it was beginning to attract nation-wide attention
                    through its unique volunteer probation system.
            Governor Winfield T. Durbin within a short time after the law became effective, appointed George W.
                    Stubbs to preside over the newly created court. He served as Judge of the Juvenile Court of 
                        Marion County
                     from the time of his appointment until his tragic death in 1911. Newton M. Taylor was
                    appointed by Governor Thomas R. Marshall to fill thevacancy caused by the death of Judge Stubbs.
            The outstanding feature of the Indiana law was the provision for the appointment of volunteer
                    probation officers. Mrs. Arthur Kenyon (Helen W.) Rogers was appointed chief probation officer, and
                    through her splendid efforts the volunteer probation system reached a marvelous development. She
                    gathered about her in this work, some of the best men and women of the city, who gave of their time
                    and energy in the development of this new method of dealing with delinquents.
            Before the enactment of this law, no legal method existed in Indiana whereby juvenile offenders were
                    accorded any different treatment from adults. This law, with its provisions for adequate
                    investigation before trial of all children brought into that court and its other provision for the
                    appointment of volunteer probation officers, opened the way for a definite and permanent method of
                    dealing with such offenders. To these provisions of the law is due almost entirely the success of
                        
                  
                     5 Lou, Juvenile Courts, 21.
               
                     the 
                        Marion County
                     Juvenile Court in working out the problem of juvenile reformation.
            The records of the Juvenile Court show that for a period of fourteen years, more than 9,000 children
                    brought into the court and charged with violations of the law were placed on probation in the charge
                    of volunteer officers, and that of this number only about fifteen per cent failed to respond to good
                    influences, making it necessary to commit them to institutions for rigid discipline.
            The volunteer probation officers who serve the Juvenile Court belong to no particular class or
                    creed-men and women, white and black, Catholic, Protestant and Hebrew, have all gratuitously joined
                    in this movement for the social uplift of the children of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            This volunteer probation system has proved to be not only a moral but an exceedingly practical force
                    in the community. Through its influence hundreds of boys have found steady employment; girls and
                    destitute children have been placed in good homes; poor children suffering from physical defects
                    have been placed in the care of physicians for treatment without any expense to the parents;
                    conditions have been improved and parents aroused to a keener sense of their obligations to their
                    children.
            The work in the Juvenile Court in 
                        Marion County
                     has never been sentimental. The aim has always been to be practical. While the work of
                    the court may not have assumed the proportions that it has in those courts so widely advertised in
                    magazines, yet I think it can be safely stated without fear of contradiction that the Juvenile Court
                    of 
                        Marion County
                    , has set the pace for all such courts in this country and abroad.
            Not alone in dealing with the child charged with crime, but in the prosecution of those contributing
                    to the delinquency of children, has the Juvenile Court rendered conspicuous service. Neglected
                    children are no longer a burden upon the taxpayer. Under the child neglect law more than
                    $100,000 in fines are now paid annually into the Court for the Care of such children.
            In referring to this court, the Encyclopaedia Brittanica uses the following
                    language: "The court in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , however, gained the reputation of being the most complete and perfect in the 
                        United States
                    . It works with a large and highly efficient band of volunteer probation officers under
                    a chief."6
            
            
               
                  6 "Children's Courts". Brittanica, VI. 140.
            
            
            From 1816 to 1881, a period of sixty-five years, the Legislature of Indiana enacted laws concerning
                    child welfare that provided: for an asylum for the Blind (1865); for a Soldiers' and
                    Sailors' Orphans Home (1867); for an Asylum for Feeble-minded and a School for Deaf and
                    Dumb (1879); for the care of deserted children, for the regulation of child labor in factories and
                    for the prevention of cruelty to children (1881).
            From 1881 up to and including the session of 1917, a period of thirty-six years, additional laws were
                    enacted which provided: for a Board of Children's Guardians, for preventing Cruelty to
                    children, for disposing of any child for an unlawful purpose, for the regulation of child begging
                    and for prohibiting the exhibition of children in dance halls (1889); for preventing the employment
                    of children in prohibited trades and for prohiblting the employment of children under 14 years of
                    age (1893); that dependent children should not be brought into the state (1899); for compulsory
                    education (1901); for a Juvenile Court and for an Indiana Girl's School (1903); for
                    preventing the selling of cigarettes to minors and for prohibiting children in dance halls (1905);
                    for raising the age of consent to 16, for punishing failure to support children and for contributing
                    to delinquency (1907); for regulating the limit of working hours according to age and for the
                    adoption of dependent or neglected children (1911); for compulsory attendance at school, for the
                    care of children by the Juvenile Court and for vocational training (1913); for making child
                    desertion a felony and for the regulation of lazy husbands (1915); for a definition of the term,
                    "delinquent child," and for the obliteration of records of the Juvenile Court
                    (1917). Not alone to the growth and development of the commonwealth is due this increased
                    legislation, but to the growing appreciation of the needs of children.
            The Juvenile Court movement in Indiana has had a tremendous influence in developing sentiment in
                    other jurisdictions for the establishment of similar courts. Its unique position as the first
                    separate court of its kind to be created in this country, gave it a prestige and influence that
                    attracted nationwide attention.
            It is not the purpose of this paper to detract from the glory of the State of 
                        Illinois
                    , as the pioneer in this great movement, but rather to emphasize the fact that Indiana
                    is entitled. to the credit of having established the first separate Juvenile Court,  and of radiating an influence for the social regeneration of the boy
                    and girl never equalled in the annals of this or any other country.7
            
            
               
                  7 After Judge Collins had finished reading his paper, Charles N. Thompson
                        of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , who was in the audience and who when a member of the state Senate had introduced
                        the bill, creating a separate juvenile court in 
                            Marion County
                        , was called on by the chairman. Senator Thompson told some of the amusing incidents
                        of the session and also something of the legislative history of the important measure. He
                        asserted that there was little opposition to the reform in the Senate, but considerable and
                        serious opposition in the House. The Senator had procured the adoption in the Senate of an
                        amendment which left the way open in the juvenile court for trial by jury, without which he
                        thought the Act might have been regarded as unconstitutional. His provision was Peft out of the
                        enrolled bill as sent to the Governor's office after passage by the House and the bill
                        was vetoed by the Governor (Durbin) on the mound anticipated by Senator Thompson. However, later
                        in the session, the Senator secured the passage of the measure in its amended form by both the
                        Senate and the House. The new bill was duly signed by the Governor and became a law.
            
         
         
         
            Isaac Hoover Julian
            By MRS. GRACE JULIAN CLARKE
            
            Isaac Hoover Julian, youngest child of Issac and Rebecca (Hoover) Julian, was born June 19, 1823,
                    about one mile and a half southwest of Centreville, 
                        Wayne County
                    , Indiana, in a two-story log house surrounded by forest. He was fifth in the line of
                    descent from Ren$eA St. Julien. This French ancestor, both of whose parents died during
                    his infancy or early childhood, was a native of 
                        Paris
                    . Little is known as to the early life of Red, but he became a soldier by profession and
                    served for a time in the armies of James II of 
                        England
                    . Later, having embraced the Protestant faith, he migrated to Holland where he enlisted
                    under the banner of William of Orange. He was in the Battle of the Boyne (July 1, 1690) which
                    determined that William III should remain on the English throne. For his services, the soldier
                    received from the King a grant of land "on the Mississippi
                    River". Returning to 
                        France
                     and finding that country an unsafe abiding place by reason of the revocation of the
                    Edict of Nantes, St. Julien set out for America with the intention of finding his land-grant. He was
                    upwards of forty at that time and tired of soldiering. En route, he stopped at the 
                        Bermuda Islands
                    , why or for how long is not known, but while there he married Margaret Bullock (or
                    Bulloch), daughter of a Scotch father and a Spanish mother. This was Ren$eA's
                    first and only matrimonial venture.
            Proceeding to the mainland, an estate was purchased in Cecil County, 
                        Maryland
                    , on Chesapeake Bay, where two sons were born whose early deaths were attributed to the
                    climate. The family then removed to 
                        Virginia
                    , settling on a plantation near Winchester in the Shenandoah Valley
                    which estate is said to be still in the possession of descendants. Ren$eA and Margaret
                    never saw the 
                        Mississippi
                     land-grant, nor did any of their family, but it is said that the survivor of the Boyne
                    used to tell his children that they were not to consider themselves permanently established until
                    they should reach that "Promised Land". Ren$eA St. Julien is reputed to
                    have been a man of giant frame, with red hair, strong will, and an irascible temper. He was a
                    slave-holder. Six sons grew to manhood-Stephen, George, John, Peter, Isaac and Ren$eA,
                    Jr. These American born sons shortened the name St. Julien to Julien or Julian.
            
            
            The fifth son, Isaac, the great-grandfather of the subject of this sketch, is mentioned in
                    Irving's Life of 
                            Washington
                        
                as residing near Winchester in September, 1755.1 Isaac
                    Julian married Barbara White, daughter of Dr. Robert White, a surgeon in the British navy, and
                    Margaret (Hoge) White. The fear of Indians became so great that Isaac and Barbara left their
                    well-stocked farm and all their household goods, except the few articles that they could carry with
                    them on horse-back, and with their seven children fled from the Valley of 
                        Virginia
                    . They passed the Blue Ridge and made their way southward as far as 
                        Randolph County
                     in the 
                        North Carolina
                     Piedmont, where another farm, comprising a thousand acres, was purchased. The original
                    deed to this land is still in the possession of descendants. Four of the brothers of Isaac, who left 
                        Virginia
                     at about the same time and for the same cause, also settled in the same part of 
                        North Carolina
                    .2
            
            The children of Isaac and Barbara were Isaac, Ren$eA, Mary, Catherine, Rebecca, Margaret,
                    and Abigail, Mary the oldest being about fifteen at the time of the migration, while the youngest,
                    Isaac, was a baby. It is said that the first Isaac had a very dark complexion, which led his father,
                    Red, to call him his Spaniard, referring to Margaret Bulloch's maternal line-age, and that,
                    in each succeeding generation, there has been at least one "Spaniard".
            The second Isaac married Sarah Long, daughter of Tobias Long of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and grand-daughter of Edward Long (or Lange) who came to America with William
                    Penn's fleet. Twelve children were born to this Isaac Julian and Sarah—Bohan,
                    Tobias, Isaac, Zeruah, Jacob, Elizabeth, Ren$eA, Shubael, Sarah, Elinor, and Martha and
                    Barbara (twins). The third Isaac, father of the Isaac Hoover Julian of this sketch, came to 
                        Wayne County
                    , Indiana, in 1808, and was soon followed by three of his brothers, Jacob, Red, and
                    Shubael. In 1816, these hardy sons were followed by the parents and their six daughters.
            The year after his arrival in Indiana Territory, the third Isaac Julian married Rebecca Hoover,
                    daughter of Andrew 
                  
                     1
                            
                                Washington
                             Irving, Life of 
                                    Washington
                                
                     , I, Chap. 18. This item of information relative to Isaac Julien, son
                            of Ren$eA St. Julien, is given in connection with an account of the Indian panic
                            which followed the defeat of Braddock in July, 1755.
                  
                     2 For more than a generation, pioneers of the Shenandoah
                                Valley together with a vast number of colonists from the interior of 
                                Pennsylvania
                             who migrated by way of the Valley, had been moving to the Carolina Piedmont by
                            the same general route as that now followed by the Julian families.
               
                     Hoover, one of the earliest pioneers of 
                        Wayne County
                     and a leading member of the Society of Friends. The Hoovers were likewise from
                            
                  Randolph county, North
                        Carolina
               .3 It is interesting to note that members of
                    both the Hoover and Julian families had united with the Society of Friends during the evangelizing
                    tour of Job Scott, a well-known English 
                        Quaker
                     who visited 
                  Randolph county, North Carolina
               , in the year 1788. There have been various
                    conjectures as to just when the Hoovers became Friends and it is therefore gratifying to have the
                    question settled by Isaac Hoover Julian's explicit statement contained in a sketch of his
                    life sent to the writer by his grand-daughter. Andreas Huber, grandfather of Rebecca Hoover Julian,
                    must have removed from his home on Pipe Creek, 
                        Maryland
                     to 
                  Randolph county, North
                            Carolina
               , about the same time that the sons of Ren$eG St.
                    Julien fled from the Valley of 
                        Virginia
                     to the same section. It seems probable that the two families were acquainted in 
                        North Carolina
                    .4 At the time of Isaac Hoover Julian's birth in 1823, his
                    father (the third Isaac Julian) had lately completed a term of service in the state Legislature. He
                    had been a school teacher, a Justice of the Peace, and a holder of other local offices. But having
                    signed some notes for a friend on the eve of a financial panic (1819) he now (1823) sold his farm,
                    paid off the notes, and purchased from the Government a tract of land on the 
                        Wabash
                    , near the site of the present city of 
                        Lafayette
                     in a newer section than 
                        Wayne County
                    . There he and his twelve-year-old son John erected a cabin, to which, in December,
                    1823, he conducted his family. At this time, the fourth Isaac in direct line was six months old.
            The recurrence of a fever from which it was thought the father had recovered laid him low and he died
                    a few days after their arrival at the new frontier home. His widow immediately returned to 
                        Wayne County
                     with her six children and by means of tireless industry and dauntless determination
                    managed to give them such educational advantages as the time and place afforded. It meant hard work
                    and self-denial on the part of all.
            Never physically robust, the fourth Isaac Julian, the youngest 
                  
                     3 See Grace Julian Clarke, "Andrew Hoover Comes to
                            Indiana", in Indiana Magazine of History (1928), XXIV, 223-241.
                  
                     4 See Ibid., 223-226, for an account of the
                            migrations of Andreas Huber. The writer has found no actual evidence to prove that the
                            Hoovers and Julians were acquainted in 
                                North Carolina
                            . Rebecca Hoover Julian's mother was Elizabeth Waymire, daughter of
                            Rudolph Wehmeyer (a native of 
                                Hanover
                            ) who came to America in 1750. The writer hopes to deal more at length with the
                            Waymire family in a later article.
               
                     child of the widow, was spared much of the drudgery that fell to
                    the lot of his older brothers. Having an insatible appetite for reading and the family library being
                    exceedingly limited, he used to walk miles at all seasons to borrow books about which he had heard.
                    His brother George W. Julian, six years older, was a sort of mentor to him and the tie between them
                    was always close. Work on the farm in summer, daily reading, chiefly history and poetry, a few
                    contributions to local newspapers, some of them in verse, teaching district schools, and a
                    prospecting tour of 
                        Iowa
                     occupied the time of the young man until his twenty-third year. In 1846 he and his
                    mother removed to Linn County, 
                        Iowa
                    , a few months before the admission of that State to the Union. There he entered a
                    quarter-section of prairie land, to which he added forty acres of woodland by purchase, expecting to
                    build a home and remain in that western area. He obtained a school and continued to write axtides
                    for newspapers. He became also a contributor to The Ladies' Repository, a
                    monthly magazine of scholarly tone published at 
                        Cincinnati
                     under the supervision of the Methodist Church. In addition he became interested in the
                    political and social upheavals of the time, especially in relation to the antislavery movement,
                    sending articles and letters to the National Era, an able antislavery journal
                    published in 
                        Washington City
                     by Dr. Gamaliel Bailey. John G. Whittier, Harriet Beecher Stowe and others who were
                    then laying the foundations of literary fame were on the list of contributors to the National Era,5 hence it was naturally gratifying to the youthful
                    Hoosier who had gone West to find himself in such company.
            Although a firm believer in the principles of the Declaration of Independence, Isaac Hoover Julian
                    was a Whig by family tradition and an ardent follower of Henry Clay until the Free Soil movement of
                    1848 led him to support Martin 
                        Van
                     Buren for President. Two years later he was a candidate for the 
                        Iowa
                     Legislature from Linn County on the Free Soil ticket.
            It is interesting to note in passing that, in the fall of 1847, Mr. Julian had assisted in erecting
                    the first house in the now considerable town of 
                  Mt.
                        Vernon, Iowa
               , and that two
                    years later he purchased for a home site the beautiful elevated ground which is now the campus of
                    Cornell College, a prominent institution of learning. As Mt. Vernon was on the
                    government 
                  
                     5 It was in the National Eva that Uncle
                                Tom's Cabin first appeared. The story ran as a serial through many weekly
                            issues before it was brought out in book form in 1852.
               
                     military road from 
                        Dubuque
                     to 
                        Iowa City
                    , Julian was an interested spectator of the vast and hetereogenous migration of
                    gold-seekers who streamed along that thomughfare on their way to 
                        California
                    , among them some of his old 
                        Wayne County
                     friends and neighbors.
            During the decade from 1840 to 1850, the development of 
                        Iowa
                     was extremely slow. There was not a railroad in the state and farmers had to haul their
                    produce to some 
                        Mississippi
                     port or landing in order to reach the markets. Materially, socially and politically, an
                    air of stagnation prevailed. The long and severe winters probably tended to increase the
                    homesickness that was gradually taking possession both of Isaac Julian and his mother and so in
                    October, 1950, after four years and a half of exile, they set out to return to Indiana. Their route
                    lay through northern 
                        Illinois
                     where they heard much talk about 
                        Chicago
                     already a city of 20,000 inhabitants, destined to steady growth. Stopping in 
                        Lafayette
                    , a headstone was placed at the grave of the father and husband on the bluff of the 
                        Wabash
                     where he had died twenty-seven years earlier. In 
                        Indianapolis
                    , these returning pioneers saw their first railroad train, on the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad, then the only one in the state. The Constitutional Convention being then in
                    session, they stopped over for a few days, guests of friends in the capital city. In a brief account
                    of the trip, which was by stage coach all the way, Mr. Julian mentions "an execrable night
                    ride [from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to Centreville] over the muddy expanses and abysses of the old National Road."
            Resuming the study of law which he had begun in 
                        Iowa
                    , Mr. Julian was admitted to the bar of the 
                        Wayne County
                     courts in 1851, but, finding the practice utterly uncongenial, he soon abandoned it and
                    turned to newspaper work, assisting Rawson Vaile on The True Democrat, a
                    Centreville paper devoted at that time to forwarding the political fortunes of George W. Julian, a
                    brother of Isaac Hoover Julian, who had been elected to Congress as a "Free
                    Soil-Democrat" in 1849 and who was a candidate for Vice-president in 1862 on the ticket
                    with John P. Hale.
            But newspaper work did not consume all of Isaac Julian's time. In 1853 he prepared for the
                    Yearly Meeting of Antislavery Friends an exposition of the legislation of Indiana respecting colored
                    people and especially of that clause of the new Constitution excluding free Negroes from the state.
                    This article  was widely copied, appearing in The
                        Liberator where Mr. Garrison called attention to its historical importance. Writing made a
                    special appeal to Mr. Julian and three years later he edited and published an autobiographical
                    memoir of his uncle, David Hoover, in connection with which he prepared an introduction and appendix
                    containing valuable sketches of early times in the Whitewater Valley. He was a frequent contributor
                    during these years to The Genius of the West, a literary magazine published at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . A little later he was represented by poems and a biographical sketch in a volume
                    entitled Poets and Poetry of the West, published at 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               .
                    A number of these poems were afterwards reprinted in magazines and newspapers. The following titles
                    indicate the bent of his mind: "On Inadvertently Deadening an Old Elm;"
                    "Lines Suggested by an Election;" "Labor: Its Rank and Rights;"
                    "To Thomas H. Benton;" "Indian Summer in the West;"
                    "Free Soil Ratification Song;" "Our True Pacific Line;"
                    "The Laureate of the Press". Among notable prose articles of the same period my be
                    mentioned: "New Considerations of the Rights of Man;" "Moral Relations of
                    the War Against Mexico;" and "Diagnosis of Conservatism".
            In the fall of 1858, Mr. Julian purchased The Indiana True Republican, published in
                    Centreville which throughout the War, that came soon, advocated the mbst active and aggressive
                    efforts to suppress the rebellion. He removed the paper to 
                        Richmond
                     in 1865, changing its name to The Indiana Radical. His last
                    journalistic and political service in Indiana was when he gave ardent support to Horace Greeley for,
                    President in 1872. He was postmaster at Centreville during Lincoln's first term and at 
                        Richmond
                     during the first term of Grant.
            Isaac Hoover Julian in 1859, at the age of thirty-six, was married to Virginia M. Spillard of College
                    Hill, 
                        Ohio
                    . Of the five children born to them only one, Isaac Victor, the oldest, survives. He is
                    now a resident of San Diego, 
                        California
                    . It is interesting to note that 
                        Virginia
                     Spillard's father and mother became acquainted and were married in 
                        New Harmony
                    , the families of both being at the time members of Robert Owen's historic
                    community. Because of Mrs. Julian's failing health the Isaac Julian family removed in 1873
                    to San Marcos, 
                        Texas
                    , where the wife and mother died six months later of tuberculosis. The care of his
                    children, the oldest being a boy of twelve, together with an exacting and not remunerative newspaper
                         business, so completely absorbed Mr. Julian's time
                    as to leave no opportunity for outside literary pursuits. His paper, the San Marcos Free Press, was a pronounced Jeffersonian Democratic sheet, and as such did not commend
                    itself strongly to the active members of the 
                        Texas
                     Democracy. Furthermore, it fairly exemplified its title, voicing Julian's
                    views to such a degree that an attempt was made to suppress it by shooting the editor in his office.
                    The shots however failed of their deadly purpose and the assailant was indicted by a grand jury for
                    assault with intent to kill. Through the delays and appeals common in such cases, the would-be
                    assassin finally escaped with a fine, whereupon he returned to 
                        Mississippi
                    , his former abode, and was himself soon afterwards murdered by another journalist. To
                    what degree such ruffianly manifestations must have jarred upon the exiled Hoosier, with his 
                        Quaker
                     background and love of scholarly pursuits, may be imagined.
            In 1890 Mr. Julian sold the Free Press, after seventeen years of continuous
                    publication, but was compelled to resume possession because of non-payment. He now changed the name
                    to the People's Era which he issued as an independent journal till his
                    retirement ten years later.
            In 1896 Julian, after an absence of twenty-three years, made a visit to his native state, attending
                    the annual Old Settlers' Meeting in Centreville in company with his brothers, Jacob B. and
                    George W. Julian. He especially desired to meet the Hoosier poet, James Whitcomb Riley, whose
                    worldwide fame had not yet dawned when Mr. Julian left Indiana in 1873. Mr. Riley was not at home,
                    but he afterwards sent Julian his latest volume of verse together with a characteristically friendly
                    letter, from which I quote the following paragraph: 
                        I have been impressed by all your verse as of a sterling and unusual product, based, as I
                            believe it, upon poetic endowment the most genuine—only failing of perfect growth
                            and flower wherein it has been withheld by lack of constant cultivation and by discordant
                            business interruptions that make the true poet's life a din and havoc almost
                            unbearable. Most certainly I find occasion to congratulate you for your song's
                            sincerity and human heart and righteous message.
                    
            
            Four years later, after fifty years of service, Mr. Julian retired from the field of journalism in so
                    far as active duties were concerned, but continued until his death to contribute to local papers and
                    occasionally to the distant Palladium and Item
                     of 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana. For a full decade longer he lingered, busy with books, magazines, a large
                    correspondence, and keenly interested in every helpful enterprise whether local, state or national.
                    A walk through town, stopping for brief greetings with acquaintances, then back to his book-lined
                    study and his easy chair—this was his daily routine. A man of the simplest tastes and
                    always poor, he probably spent more for books than all the other inhabitants of San Marcos combined.
                    A trip to San Antonio or Austin always meant a visit to the book-shops, including the second-hand
                    dealers, and a return laden with spoils to be enjoyed in solitude and perhaps discussed with two or
                    three congenial friends. A recluse by nature, Mr. Julian's long residence among a people of
                    different tastes and traditions tended to emphasize this trait.
            He was a genuine lover of poetry and possessed some rare editions of Burns, who had been one of his
                    early idols. He handled books as few persons do nowadays, with that tender care and sense of
                    privilege that characterized their use when they were few and precious. Always a loyal Hoosier (the
                    very word Indiana was music to his ears), he was nevertheless much attached to his
                    adopted state in whose romantic history he took great delight. He was eagerly interested in every
                    effort to improve the tone of society in San Marcos and took an active part in establishing the
                    first public school there, for which he afterwards received much praise, but little encouragement at
                    the time. Several years before his death he offered his valuable library as a gift to the town on
                    condition that the authorities would agree to house it properly and keep it open to the public at
                    stated hours, but no action was taken in the matter.
            A characteristic act was the placing of a stone at the grave of an old soldier of San Jacinto. This
                    patriot had died, poor and alone, in San Marcos, and was buried in its beautiful cemetery. But there
                    was no relative to look after the marking of his last resting-place, and after vainly seeking
                    through the press to arouse public interest in the matter, Mr. Julian himself purchased a neat and
                    substantial granite stone on which are inscribed simply the man's name and the words,
                    eloquent to all who are familiar with Teixas history—"A Soldier of San
                    Jacinto". When Mr. Julian, himself in his eighty-seventh year, led us to that spot in the
                    spring of 1909, tears were in his eyes as he dwelt on the glory of that title.
            
            Utterly without dogmatism, and not a member of any church, although he had been reared a 
                        Quaker
                    , he was a deeply religious man. Surrounded by churches and church-going neighbors of
                    the vehement Southern type, he must have seemed an oddity. When called on in his hill-side home one
                    Sunday forenoon, he was found reading "Unity, Jenkin Lloyd
                    Jones' weekly evangel. He talked of Keats, showing several unusual editions of the works of
                    this poet and reciting from Thomson's "Seasons". Finally the conversation
                    drifted to the subject of a future life, when he expressed a hope that amounted almost to a
                    conviction, of the soul's immortality and of knowing one another in the Great Beyond.
            Never robust physically, this last survivor of his father's family yet lived to be an old
                    man, and died without an illness, simply falling asleep between a Saturday and Sunday. As one
                    contemplates this long, unobtrusive and uneventful life one is impressed with the fact that it
                    perhaps held more of bereavement, struggle and disappointment than falls to the average lot. And yet
                    his soul, which was the real man, dwelt on a lofty plane and knew much of serene joy. On the
                    afternoon of his funeral, the shops of San Marcos were closed and the schools were dismissed that
                    the pupils might attend the services in a body, all carrying flowers with which they covered the
                    grave of their old friend. The life-long efforts in behalf of temperance, peace, freedom of thought,
                    and education of Isaac Hoover Julian were dwelt upon by those who spoke and it was manifest that he
                    had the respect and affection of a wide circle.6
            
            
                    THE HOUSE WHERE I WAS BORN
                    It stands beside the dusty way, All aged and weather worn, Nor tree nor vine nor clustering
                        flowers Its naked walls adorn; Moss-grown its hoary, time-stained roof— No sweet
                        charm lingers there; The scene by nature once so blest Is desolate and bare.
                    Then let the heartless worldling laugh, Or curl the lip in scorn, I cannot view unmoved the
                        spot— The house where I was born.
                    
                  
                     6 It seems appropriate to append three of the characteristic poems of
                            Isaac Hoover Julian. "The House Where I was Born" was written at
                            Centreville in 1868. But three of the five stanzas are reproduced here.
               
                    
                    For here my father in his prime, With manhood's arm of might Clove down the giant forest
                        trees That dimmed the noonday light, And reared those walls and that old roof To shelter those
                        he loved; The perils of our border life Its harsh privations proved.
                    Then let the heartless worldling laugh, etc.
                    And here my mother tended well The nurselings of her breast— Alone amid the
                        wilderness— Their waking and their rest, Ofttimes when night hung o'er the
                        woods And snow lay on the ground The gaunt wolf howling on the hill, The savage prowling
                        'round.
                    Then let the heartless worldling laugh, etc.
                
            
                    MAPLE SUGAR MEMORIES7
               
                    Thanks for your gift!—Broad earth owns not A dearer or a sweeter! To life's
                        bright morn—home's natal spot, A talisman completer!
                    The weary years roll back, and bring Again my happy childhood, Its pleasant home, its cherished
                        haunts, Lapped in the fragrant wildwood.
                    A venerated form I see— The dearest—'tis my mother's, Her
                        loving glance and smile on me, My sisters and my brothers.
                    And ever from her hand to mine, When but a little shaver, A lump of sugar was the sign And seal
                        of good behavior!
                    Again, while chill the March winds blow, And snow the earth is wrapping, Forth with the larger
                        boys I go, The sugar orchard tapping.
                    
                  
                     7 "Maple Sugar Memories" was written in San Marcos, 
                                Texas
                            , in 1881. It was addressed to a lady who had sent the editor some maple maple
                            which she had just received from the north.
               
                    
                    The holes are bored, the spiles are driven, The troughs adjusted squarely; Then, when a copious
                        thaw is given, The "sweety sap" flows rarely.
                    Then busily from tree to tree The water-hauler passes, And gathers in the sap to be Made sugar or
                        molasses.
                    In barrels to the sugar-camp He bears the crystal treasure And pours in giant popular troughs In
                        floods of larger measure.
                    There o'er the furnace in a row Are ranged the cauldrons boiling, And growing sweets
                        mature below— Reward of all the toiling.
                    All day the work goes bravely on, Nor yet at nightfall passes, With "stirrings
                        off" and mirth and fun Of rosy lads and lasses.
                    At night, the dim woods, half concealed, Majestic, calm and solemn, In the bright firelight stand
                        revealed In many a stately column.
                    So pass the hours, till spring, apace, Comes on, no more a rover, Bringing the brighter, warmer
                        days, And sugar-making's over!
                    I mark the lamb-tongue's spotted leaf; The crow-foot follows early; The tomtit flits
                        with pauses brief, The bluebird whistles clearly.
                    Such are the visions which attend Upon this grateful token, While thoughts and sympathies they
                        lend Too deep to be e'er spoken.
                    My years of exile fade away; My youth comes back before me; My native land in bright
                        array,— Again her skies bend o'er me!
                    
                    Thanks for your gift! Could aught on earth An added value give it? Yes, there remains its
                        crowning worth,— From your hand to receive it!
                
            
                    TO G. W. J.8
               
                    Fear nothing, and hope all things, as the right Alone may do securely.—
                            Lowell
                        .
                    Brother beloved and true!—nor mine alone— Brother of all true spirits
                        everywhere! Long thy co-laborer in my humbler sphere, To me how well thy steadfast soul is
                        known! Lo, "Truth is mighty", and all yet must own— Save owl-like
                        Prejudice and Ignorance, Or else discomfited Malevolence The brave and martyr spirit thou hast
                        shown. Thou livest to see the dawning of that day; After the struggle of thy early life, Thy
                        manhood's sorrows, conflicts, toils and strife— In service of thy fellow men
                        grown gray— Thou sharest the rest and peace so nobly won, Serenely gazing on thy
                        westering sun.
                
            
               
                  8 In 1891, Mr. Julian sent from San Marcos this sonnet to his brother
                        George W. Julian. The occssion was the seventy-fourth birthday of the latter.
            
         
         
         
            
               
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal
            BY HEBER P. WALKER
            
            Near 
                        Louisville
                    , the Ohio river falls from twenty-seven to twenty-eight feet
                    within a distance of two miles. These rapids early became known as the "Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    ." They impeded traffic so much that boats could safely descend only during
                    periods of high water while it was possible to make the ascent during even shorter periods of the
                    year and at greater peril. In the hope of making the river navigable at all times by means of a
                    canal, the Legislature of 
                        Kentucky
                     incorporated the 
                        Ohio
                     Canal Company in 1804. The act designated seventeen cities of the state in which books
                    were to be opened for subscriptions for stock, and named the men who were to be in charge of the
                    sales. The capital stock was to be $50,000, divided into 1,000 shares of $50
                    each, though if this stock should be insufficient, the directors might from time to time increase
                    the number of shares. The works and canal with all their profit should be forever exempt from any
                    tax or assessment. The subscribers were to receive returns on their investment by way of tolls,
                    which were levied according to the size of the boat. Those not over fourteen feet wide and
                    forty-five feet long were to pay $4.00; those not over fourteen feet wide and sixty feet
                    long, $5.00, etc. Boats loaded with coal, lime, iron, or other ore, or household
                    furniture were to pay not more than three-fourths of the regular tolls. The canal had to be capable
                    of navigation, except in dry seasons, for vessels and rafts drawing four feet of water, at the
                    least. It had to be begun within three years and completed by January 1, 1812. A lottery was
                    authorized whereby the company might raise as much as $15,000 for the construction of the
                        callal.1
            
            The preamble of the law of 1804 stated that there were many people who wished to invest large sums in
                    the canal, but only a portion of the money was subscribed.2 It is also true that
                    the act was "defective in many of its important provisions."3
                    In an attempt to correct these defects and render encouragement to the enterprise, the Legislature,
                    in 1805, 
                  
                     1 Little, Statute law of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , I, 221-254.
                  
                     2 Lewis Collins, History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                      (revised by Richard H. Collins), I, 551.
                  
                     3
                            Statutes of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 1805, 1.
               
                     modified the act of the previous year. The capital stock was now
                    to consist of 10,000 shares at $50 each. The State of 
                        Kentucky
                     was to purchase 1,000 shares and reserve for her disposition 1,000 other shares. The 
                        United States
                     might subscribe for shares to the par value of $60,000; 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Virginia
                    , each, to the value of $30,000; 
                  Maryland, New York
                and 
                        Ohio
                    , each, to the value of $20,000. Again, the canal and works were to be
                    tax-exempt. It had to be navigable for vessels drawing not over three feet except in time of low
                    water, and must be twenty-four feet wide at the bottom. A lottery was again authorized, with the
                    privilege of raising a sum not exceeding $30,000. Work had to begun within three years
                    and completed by January 1, 1815. Tolls were levied according to tonnage for ships and sea vessels
                    and according to size for other boats.4
            
            Apparently nothing was accomplished under this law. Capital would not embark on the enterprise
                    although the inducements seemed large, so the Legislature in January, 1818, created the 
                        Kentucky
                    -
                        Ohio
                     Canal Company, with a capital stock of $600,000, divided into 6,000 shares
                    of $100 each, 2,500 of which were reserved, 500 each for 
                  Kentucky, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia
                and the Federal Government. The Directors were authorized to do
                    as they thought best to obtain subscriptions. The steamboat first made its appearance on the 
                        Ohio
                     in 1811, making a deeper canal necessary, so the act provided for a width of thirty
                    feet at the bottom and a depth of four and a half feet, "sufficient to carry through the
                    whole distance …. any boat or craft not carrying more than four feet of water."
                    A change was made in the tolls. A loaded flat boat had to pay ten dollars and an empty one, six.
                    Steamboats, barges, and keelboats were to be charged $1.50 per ton if loaded and half
                    that per ton if empty. Partially loaded boats were to pay in proportion, and the several rates were
                    to be doubled for vessels ascending the river. To induce capital to enter into this undertaking, the
                    law provided that if the dividends were less than twelve and a half per cent after two years of
                    canal operation, the directors might raise the tolls, and if over eighteen per cent, the Legislature
                    reserved the right to reduce them so that the specified income should not be exceeded. This act did
                    not provide for tax exemption.5
            
            
               
                  4
                        lbid., 1-18.
               
                  5
                        Statutes of 
                                Kentucky
                            
                  , 1817-1818, 419-425.
            
            
            Two more years elapsed and nothing was accomplished.6 The amended act of 1820
                    authorized the company to organize when $100,000 of stock had been subscribed, and
                    reserved stock for various states and the 
                        United States
                    , and again contained the provisions relative to dividends,7 but the
                    public spirit was too low or capital too insufficient or too sensitive.8 On
                    November 1, 1824, Governor Desha presented his annual message to the Legislature, in which he urged
                    the construction of internal improvements. 
                        Kentucky
                    , because of her inland position, must remain an exporting state, and any impediment in
                    her path to the ocean must necessarily obstruct her progress to wealth and power. The Governor
                    pointed to the works of other states and urged that 
                        Kentucky
                     construct her own internal improvements. Not all could be undertaken at once, so he
                    preferred that the canal be pushed through, and that the profits arising from it be used to
                    construct other means of transportation. It was customary then to collect tolls from turnpikes as
                    well as from canals, so the Governor contended that when the whole system of internal improvements
                    should "be completed, the profits, it is believed, would nearly or entirely relieve the
                    people from the burthen of taxation, and not only support the government, but also build up and
                    maintain many liberal institution."9
            
            Other states were interested in this canal. Governor Morrow of 
                        Ohio
                     sent to Desha an account of the action of the Legislature of his state and a series of
                    documents relative to the canal. David S. Bates, a civil engineer of 
                        Ohio
                    , had estimated that a canal forty-four feet wide at the bottom and fifty-six feet wide
                    at the top and four feet at lowest water, could be constructed on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side at a cost of $306,014.68, and on the Indiana side for
                        $533,048.10
            
            The most clearly expressed reasons for a canal were given by Alfred Kelly, Acting Commissioner of the
                        Lake Erie and 
                        Ohio
                     Canal: 
                        It may be assumed as a fact, that more damage is annually sustained by the country situated
                            on the 
                                Ohio
                            , and its branches above the Falls, in consequence of that obstruction, than the
                            whole amount required to provide a complete and permanent remedy for the evil. 
                        
                           6 Collins, op. cit., I, 551.
                        
                           7
                                    Statutes of Kentuckty. 1819-1820, 911-914.
                        
                           8 Collins, op. cit., I. 552.
                        
                           9
                                    Senate Journal (
                                        Kentucky
                                    ), 1824, 9-10.
                        
                           10
                                    Ibid., 193-198.
                     
                             The actual expense incurred in the transportation of
                            property around the Falls, forms but a small item in this account. The damage sustained in
                            consequence of the delays occasioned by this obstruction, in conveying to market the surplus
                            products of the upper country, is one of much greater magnitude. The market at 
                                New Orleans
                             is so fluctuating that the delay of a few days often occasions a serious
                            dimuntion in the price obtained for a cargo of provisions. The climate and situation are
                            such, that the investment of a large surplus capital in that place, applicable to the
                            exigencies of commerce, can never be reasonably expected. The market is therefore liable to
                            be overstocked and a regular demand for a time destroyed. Provisions, if long exposed on
                            their journey down the river, or in the warehouses at 
                                New Orleans
                            , to the heat and moisture of that climate, are subject to be damaged and
                            consequently diminished in value, and injured in their general reputation in foreign
                            markets.
                    
            
            Obstruction of the "Falls", argued Kelly, prevents goods being placed on the 
                        New Orleans
                     market when the prices are highest. When the "Falls can be descended with
                    safety, a vast amount of property is thrown at once into a market, which …. is limited in
                    extent and fluctuating in price…. Although the average price of flour in 
                        New Orleans
                    , is 25 or 30 per cent. less than in the seaports of the Atlantic states, yet it
                    frequently occurs that 
                        New Orleans
                     is supplied with that article for home consumption from those very ports."
                    This illustrates the inequality of price in the market.
            To further prove the need of a canal, Mr. Kelly wrote: 
                        Much the largest proportion [of the surplus of the upper country] still descends the
                            Ohi$oA and 
                                Mississippi
                             in flat boats although navigated by a large amount of steamboat tonnage. This
                            is owing in a great measure to the obstruction of the falls to steamboat navigation. This
                            rapid can be passed by steamboats, especially in ascending, during a small part of the year.
                            Provisions from above the Falls are on an average 15 days longer in reaching their
                            destination, "and much more subject to be injured by exposure to the weather and
                            other accidents, when transported in flat boats, than when shipped in steam boats. On this
                            account many persons prefer sending their flour, pork and other provisions to market on
                            board of steam boats, even at the present prices of freight charged by these boats, which on
                            flour is now about one dollar per barrel from 
                                Cincinnati
                             to 
                                New Orleans
                            .
                    
            
            Should the canal be constructed, it was believed that freight on flour would be reduced immediately
                    to fifty cents per barrel, which "effect would be the result of the more constant
                    employment obtained by those boats, the greater safety and less delay in navigating the river, as
                    well as from the reduction  in the actual expense now incurred in
                    passing the Falls and carting the cargo across the portage at that place." Kelly maintained
                    that flour could be transported best by steamboats. To strengthen his claim he declared that 
                        300,000 barrels annually descend the Falls, which estimate -is probably below the truth; the
                            sum of 150,000 dollars on the freight of this article alone, would annually be saved to the
                            upper country. But it is believed that the loss sustained by delay, actual loss and damage
                            received by the property, its bad reputation on market, the extra expense of transportation,
                            and the sacrifice necessarily made in an overstocked market, in consequence of the
                            obstruction at the Falls and the method of conveying property which it induces, is
                            altogether equal to one dollar on each barrel of flour.
                    
            
            Flour constituted about one-fourth of the value of the products of the upper country which descended
                    the Falls, according to Kelly, so it was reasonable to estimate "at least an equal amount
                    of loss on all the other articles, which together form a sum three times as great." It was
                    held that more than 3,000 flat boats descended the Falls annually to 
                        New Orleans
                    .11 From their construction they could never be used in ascending
                    navigation. So they were sold at a loss of $80 each, on the average, which made a loss by
                    the upper country of $240,000 a year. Moreover, it required a larger number of hands on
                    flatboats than on steamboats in proportion to the amount of freight. These hands were obliged to
                    return by steamboat, being unemployed on the home trip. This entailed expense: 
                        The damage sustained by property conveyed on board these badly constructed vessela, the loss
                            and risk incurred, and the exposure of health and life, occasioned by this method of
                            transportation, together with the bad appearance and low reputation of provisions, must all
                            be taken into account in forming an opinion of the relative advantages attending the two
                            methods of conveyance.12
                  
                    
            
            The public demand for a canal was urgent and the Legislature of 
                        Kentucky
                    , in January, 1825, incorporated the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal Company with a capital stock of $600,000, divided into $100
                    shares. The tolls were to be twenty cents a ton for steamboats, sea vessels, barges or keelboats,
                    and $4.00 for each flat boat. The same percentage of profit was 
                  
                     11 The recorda of the company after the opening of the canal make one
                            skeptical of this eatimate.
                  
                     12
                            Smata Joyrnal (
                                Kentucky
                            ), 1824, 199-201.
               
                     granted as in the acts of 1818 and 1820. No lottery was
                    authorized, and no exemption from taxation was granted.13
            
            A sectional spirit was manifested in the passage of this act. It passed the Senate on January 11 by a
                    vote of 25 to 7, but every one of the seven opposing members represented counties lying in the
                    southeastern part of the state, which would benefit the least by the canal.14
            
            Although the law did not reserve any stock for the 
                        United States
                    , yet an investment was sought from that quarter. In April, 1826, the 
                        United States
                     Senate had under discussion a bill providing that the 
                        United States
                     purchase 1,000 shares of stock should the price not be over $100 per share.
                    Johnson and Rowan of 
                        Kentucky
                     and Ruggles of 
                        Ohio
                     argued for the measure on the ground that it was an opportunity for the 
                        United States
                     to invest money with benefit to the Treasury, holding that it was believed to be the
                    best investment in the country. Chandler of 
                        Maine
                     and 
                        Van
                     Buren of 
                        New York
                     opposed the bill on principle. It passed the upper house by a vote of 22 to 16. Hugh L.
                    White of 
                        Tennessee
                     cast the only negative vote from the West. This bill passed the House and was approved
                    by Adams on May 13, 1826.
            Private capital failed to flow into this canal enterprise. In January, 1829, Rowan of 
                        Kentucky
                     was urging the 
                        United States
                     Senate to take more stock, claiming that the work could not be done without the aid of
                    the Government. The calculation in regard to construction had proved erroneous. It was found that
                    the expense would far exceed the estimate of the engineer. The stock went below par and many shares
                    were forfeited. The canal was only about two and one-half miles in length, but it had to be cut
                    through solid rock. The work was two-thirds done. The purchase of stock was not a question of
                    principle with Rowan, but one of expediency. John Branch of 
                        North Carolina
                     asked that the bill be laid over until the question of the distribution of public money
                    had been settled, condemning this bill as purely local.16 To this proposal,
                    Johnson of 
                        Kentucky
                     replied that the canal was of interest to the whole Western country, that is, to
                    4,000,000 people. As to the distribution of federal money, this was the only legitimate 
                  
                     13
                            Statutes Of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 1824-1826, 167-173.
                  
                     14
                            Senate Journal. (
                                Kentucky
                            ), 1824-1825, 432.
                  
                     15
                            Register of Debates in Congress, Vol. II, part I, 619-620.
                  
                     16 The U. S. Treasury waa showing a surplus each year.
               
                     object for which it could be expended in the West. Johnston of 
                        Louisiana
                     urged immediate passage to prevent obstruction to the project that would soon occur due
                    to the rise of water. The measure passed the Senate, 24 to 18, with Hugh L. White of 
                        Tennessee
                     again casting the only dissenting vote of the West.17 This bill was
                    approved March 2, 1849, just be-fore the close of the Adams Administration. It provided that the 
                        United States
                     purchase not over 1,350 shares at a price not above par, from any stock which may have
                    been forfeited to the company and not again disposed of.18
            
            The legislature of 
                        Kentucky
                     on December 12, 1829, authorized an increase of capital stock from $600,000
                    to $700,000,19 and exactly two years later gave the company blanket
                    authority to extend the capitalization to such an amount as would be sufficient to pall all the
                    costs of constructing the canal 20
            
            The canal was completed and opened to traffic in December, 1830. It was a paying enterprise from the
                    start. The following table reveals the success of the canal:21
            
            
               
                  
                            Years
                        
                  
                            Steamboats
                        
                  
                            Flat and Keel Boats
                        
                  
                            Tons
                        
                  
                            Amounts received
                        
               
               
                  1831
                  406
                  421
                  79,23
                  12,750.77
               
               
                  1832
                  453
                  179
                  70,109
                  25,756.12
               
               
                  1833
                  875
                  710
                  169,885
                  60,736.92
               
               
                  1834
                  938
                  623
                  162,000
                  61,848.17
               
               
                  1835
                  1,266
                  355
                  200,413
                  80,165.24
               
               
                  1836
                  1,182
                  260
                  182,220
                  88,343.23
               
               
                  1837
                  1,501
                  165
                  242,374
                  145,424.69
               
               
                  1838
                  1,058
                  438
                  201,750
                  121,107.16
               
               
                  1839
                  1,666
                  578
                  300,406
                  180,364.01
               
               
                  1840
                  1,231
                  392
                  224,841
                  134,904.56
               
               
                  1841
                  1,031
                  309
                  189,907
                  113,944.69
               
            
            The company continued to issue stock to complete the canal and to improve it for a number of years,
                    acting in compliance with the Act of the Legislature of 1831. The first dividend was issued on June
                    3, 1833, which amounted to $30 per share on 4,665 shares and to $20 per share
                    on 1,335 shares, the size of the dividend depending upon the age of the shares, "for
                    interest, and the tolls before that time received and expended 
                  
                     17
                            Register of Debates in Congress, Vol. V, 47-49.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., Appendix, 65.
                  
                     19
                            Statutes of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 1829-1880, 10.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 1881, 95.
                  
                     21 Reports of the Company to the Legislature of 
                                Kentucky
                            . In Senate Journals for the corresponding years.
               
                     in completing the Canal."22 This initial
                    dividend was paid in new stock. The following table of dividends shows the returns to the
                    stockholders from the enterprise:
            
               January 1834—6% dividend.
               January 1835—3% "
               July 1835—4% "
               January 1836—4% "
               July 1837—6% "
               January 1838—7% "
               July 1838—6% dividend.
               January 1839—5% "
               July 1839—9% "
               January 1840—8% "
               July 1841—4% "
               January 1842—5% "
            
            There are several items of interest in there reports. They reveal that the traffic generally was on
                    the increase up to and including 1839, the fluctuations being accounted for by the stages of water
                    in the river. At times of very high water the boats could pass over the falls and avoid going
                    through the locks. During some winters traffic was impeded by ice floes. The dividends on the whole
                    were large and the stock sold above par value. It is significant that for the supposedly bad year of
                    1837, the canal investers received dividends amounting to 13 per cent for the business year.23
            
            No sooner was the canal in operation and yielding dividends, than a movement was started to bring
                    about public ownership in order to establish practically free passage for traffic. On January 21,
                    1842, the Legislature of 
                        Kentucky
                     gave the company the "privilege" of selling the shares of stock owned
                    by individuals to the 
                        United States
                    , to the State of 
                        Kentucky
                    , or to the city of 
                        Louisville
                    , for the purpose of eventually making the canal free from tolls. The directors were
                    authorized to issue no more dividends, but to use the income for the purchase of individual stock.
                    This was to be purchased pro rata and the price for the first year was not to exceed
                    $150.00 per share. The law provided that "the maximum price paid for the shares
                    purchased the first year, and six per centum per annum, annually, added thereto, shall be the
                    highest price which shall be paid for the shares in each subsequent year."24
            
            The state of 
                        Kentucky
                     and the city of 
                        Louisville
                     refused 
                  
                     22
                            Senate Jacrnal (
                                Kentucky
                            ), 1833-34, Appendix, p. 13.
                  
                     23 The writer has been unable to find any records for dividends that
                            may have been declared in July, 1826, January, 1837, July, 1840, or January, 1841. The year
                            1836 must have been a good one, and dividends must have been declared. Probably no dividends
                            were received by stockholders, for the year 1840, that is in July, 1840, and in January,
                            1841. The table gives evidence that the worst condition did not prevail in 1837, the panic
                            year, nor in 1838-1839, but that the depression reached a climax later. Sales of public
                            lands, westward migration and prices of commodities reveal the same truth, that the worst
                            years were 1840-1842.
                  
                     24
                            Statutes of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 1841-1842, 17-19.
               
                     the offer,25 but no further dividends were
                    declared, the shares of individuals were purchased by the Board of Directors and held in trust for
                    the 
                        United States
                     which finally purchased them. The report of Mr. Salisbury in the 
                        United States
                     Senate in 1860 showed that the total number of shares was 10,000, of which by
                    subscription the 
                        United States
                     were entitled to 2,902, which had cost the Government $233,500. Upon these
                    shares the Government had received in dividends $257,778. The directors, according to the
                    act of the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature of 1842, had purchased and now held in trust 7,093 shares, "which,
                    with the shares owned by the 
                        United States
                     and five shares held by the directors,26 individually, complete the
                    full number of shares in the capital stock of the… company."27 In 1857 the State of 
                        Kentucky
                     authorized the Board to build a branch canal, which Congress in 1860 authorized to be
                    paid out of the canal revenue. Congress issued bonds to purchase this stock, and in 1874 took
                    complete control of the canal and works.28
            
            This study contains several points of importance to the student of American history. It shows the
                    intense interest of the people of the West in internal improvements. The cost was three times the
                    estimate, which is typical of many of the governmental enterprises. The people were very anxious to
                    get men to invest their money in the undertaking, but when dividends which the Legislature had
                    authorized became R reality, the demand became urgent that the government take over the canal and
                    lower the tolls or grant free passage. The votes in the Senate of 
                        Kentucky
                     and in the branches of the 
                        United States
                     Congress indicate a sectional interest, which is also typical throughout our history.
                    Governor Desha wished the state of 
                        Kentucky
                     to construct the canal and to use the profits to build turnpikes, etc., and to use the
                    profits of all to maintain these works and to further the development of liberal institutions. The
                    shattering of his dream must have caused him much distress. The 
                        United States
                     government finally took over the canal, extending her power one step farther over the
                    waterways of the nation. It was one institution 
                  
                     25 Collins, Op. cit., I, 553.
                  
                     26 The directors were required by the law to be stockholders, and they
                            were fulfilling the terms of the statute by requiring each member of the Directorate to own
                            one share.
                  
                     27
                            Congressional Globe, 36 Cons., 1 Sess., 1173.
                  
                     28 Collins, op. cit., I, 553.
               
                     out of which the Government made a big profit when a
                    stockholder, but when the sole owner, made less than nothing. The canal was too small within ten
                    years after its opening and the 
                        United States
                     had to expend a great deal in preparing it for further usefulness. Moreover the
                    railroad came in and the traffic on the river declined.
         
         
         
            Jesse D. Bright and Michael C. Garber
            BY WILLIAM S. GARBER.
            A fuller account of the clash between Senator Jesse D. Bright and Michael C. Garber, editor of the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier, in 1851 and 1852, referred to by Mr. Charles B. Muryhy in his monograph,
                        The Political Career of Jesse D. Bright,1 may be
                    interesting and of some historical value, for it was not merely a personal quarrel between the
                    Senator and the Editor. Its significance lies in the fact that is was probably the first attempt on
                    the part of a political leader to crush independent journalism in Indiana—an attempt that
                    failed. The question was who should control the columns of a party paper, its proprietor and editor
                    or a political boss. The issue was very clearly defined.
            Mr. Garber, a Virginian and a Democrat, purchased the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier and came to that city in the summer of 1849. It was a Democratic paper
                    that had been the personal organ of Senator Bright, though he had no financial interest in it.
                    Except on the question of slavery, the Senator and new Editor were in political accord, and Garber
                    could support the Senator without doing violence to his convictions. This he did and the relations
                    of the two men were at first friendly. The Senator wrote appreciative letters to Editor Garber from 
                        Washington
                     commending his paper and complimenting him on his editorials. But it soon developed
                    that it was not expected that a Bright paper, and especially one published in the Senator's
                    home town, should print anything that did not accord with the Senator's views, or what made
                    matters worse, say anything complimentary about his rivals. Notwithstanding, the Courier on October 23, 1850, contained an editorial denouncing the Fugitive Slave Law as
                    repugnant to the feelings of a man living in a free state.
            Senator Bright, who owned slaves in 
                        Kentucky
                    , helped in the enactment of the Fugitive Slave Law and believed it wise and righteous.
                    The Indiana State Sentinel, leading Democratic paper in the state, interested
                    perhaps in keeping the party press in line and perhaps at the suggestion of Senator Bright, took
                    Garber to task for printing an editorial so contrary to 
                  
                     1 Charles B. Murphy, The Political Career of Jeses D.
                                Bright (1931) Indiana Historical Society, Publications, vol. X,
                            No. 3.
               
                     the well known views of Bright. The gentleman who edited the Courier was not slow to resent the suggestion that he was not free to express his
                    own opinions in his own paper. The Indiana State Journal, the leading Whig paper,
                    sought to make political capital out of the potential dissension in the ranks of the enemy, the
                    Democratic party, and was informed on December 7 that the editor of the Courier,
                    while a Democrat and a loyal supporter of Senator Bright, was not the "blow-pipe of any
                    man, clique or party." The editorial contains the following: 
                        The most striking feature of Mr. Bright's character, and one which is universally
                            commended, is his bold and fearless avowal of his opinions on every question. In all our
                            intercourse with Mr. Bright we have ever found him careful of the rights and privileges of
                            others. We differ with him on many questions of public policy; yet we are
                            friends—political and personal friends. Upon the question of the Fugitive Slave
                            Law we are not certain how far we differ with the 
                                United States
                             Senator, nor have we ever stopped to inquire.
                    
            
            On January 14, 1851, the Courier contained an editorial approving Gov. Joseph A.
                    Wright's veto of a bill passed by the legislature authorizing the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     Railroadto issue bonds. It does not appear that there was any politics in it, but for a
                    Bright man to approve any action of Gov. Wright was, in the mind of the Senator, a crime.
            The Constitutional Convention was in session and Gov. Wright opposed its action on the subject of
                    state banks. On January 16, the Courier contained an editorial characterizing the
                    action of the Convention as an unwise compromise between expediency and principle, supporting the
                    Governor's position: "No State debt says Gov. Wright. No connection between the
                    Government and the banks said the great Jackson. Both are right, and both will be sustained by the
                    people."
            Mr. Garber kept on saying what he thought of the Fugitive Slave Law and printing news items detailing
                    distressing instances of injustice and inhumanity accompanying efforts to enforce it in this and
                    other states. Woollen wrote of Bright: "He was imperious in manner, but brooked no
                    opposition from either friend or foe. Indeed he classed every man as foe who would not do his
                    bidding, and made personal devotion to himself the test of Democracy."2
                    Garber was involved in the 
                  
                     2 William Weeley Woollen, Biographical and Historical
                                Sketches of Early Indiana, 223.
               
                     conflict between Senator Bright and his rival Governor Joseph A.
                    Wright. The Senator would permit "no divided allegiance," and since Garber was a
                    friend of the Governor, he was guilty of "an offense for which there was no
                        atonement."3
            
            Assuming that Mr. Woollen describes Senator Bright correctly, the course of the Courier must have been far from satisfactory to him, although the Courier
                    was supporting him as a candidate for re-election to the Senate, printing his speeches made before
                    that body and elsewhere and enlarging upon his estimable qualities as a man and statesman. The
                    trouble was that Mr. Garber kept on doing his own thinking and printing his own views. The result
                    was that early in February the Indiana State Sentinel charged that while
                    professing to be the friend of Mr. Bright the editor of the Courier was
                    continually "by hints, innuendoes and backthrusts assailing his opinions and condemning
                    measures which he was known to favor." The Courier of February 12,
                    answered: "The devotion [of the Courier] to Mr. Bright is well known in
                    this community…. That we, while advocating the election of Mr. Bright, held and expressed
                    opinions which were our own, is true."
            It probably never occurred to Mr. Garber that he would be disciplined for his views on slavery and
                    for agreeing with Gov. Wright. It is not probable that it would have made any difference in his
                    course, had it occurred to him since he didn't deviate from it when the disciplining was
                    attempted. The quality of his Democracy as well as his personal integrity was questioned in no
                    gentle language, and a resolution was passed by the state House of Representatives forbidding the
                    door-keepers to place the Courier on the desks of members with their other mail
                    and papers, as was the custom.
            Eighty years ago, successful party leaders were heroes to their constituents more than at present,
                    and, if what is said about Mr. Bright be true, no leader inspired greater loyalty among followers.
                    His partisans in 
                        Madison
                     took up his fight against the Editor of the Courier and pursued him
                    with abuse and took measures to destroy his paper. Twenty-six prominent Bright Democrats, headed by
                    the Senator himself, published a card declaring that the Courier was
                    "unfit to be 
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 224.
               
                     classed among the sound Democratic papers of the State, and that
                    they declined being longer considered subscribers of either the Daily or Weekly Courier."
                    On July 8, a Democratic meeting at the Court House in 
                        Madison
                    , packed with Bright men adopted a resolution reading Mr. Garber out of the Democratic
                    party. The citizens of 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Jefferson County
                     and the country around, however, stood by him. The Courier's
                    subscription list gained many more than it lost, and the range of its circulation greatly widened.
                    So many Democrats still insisted on regarding the Democracy of the paper as orthodox that the Indiana State Sentinel, calling attention to the fact that its editor had been
                    formally expelled from the party, urged that the Courier should no longer be
                    supported by Democrats. On December 13, 1851, Mr. Garber replied: "
                        Brown
                     [editor of the State Sentinel] forgets that the same meeting which
                    read us out read out Joseph A. Wright also; and that several larger meetings at the Court House and
                    at North 
                        Madison
                     read the Governor and our humble self in again."
            Notwithstanding all that had happened, when, during the 1851 session of the legislature, Senator
                    Bright was charged by Robert Dale Owen with attempting to bribe a member, the Courier defended Bright. The defense was probably not as sympathetic as it would have been if
                    certain things had not already happened, but it was sufficient to show conclusively the charge of
                    Owen to be without foundation.
            On the very day that the editorial in the Courier contained the words,
                    "The devotion of the Courier to Mr. Bright is well known in this community….
                    That we, while advocating the election of Mr. Bright, held and expressed opinions which were our own
                    is true," Senator Bright wrote the following letter to Judge William M. Taylor, one of his
                    lieutenants in 
                        Madison
                    : 
                        I have received your suggestions in reference to the Courier, and know you believe what you
                            write, and that your advice arises from an ardent desire to see peace and harmony in the
                            democratic ranks, and to see democratic principles in the ascendant, but the way to effect
                            this result is to denounce traitors and bid them defiance, not to seek to conciliate or buy
                            them up. This Garber is in the market, and has been ever since he came here, and when we
                            meet I will demonstrate it to your entire satisfaction.
                        He is deadly hostile at heart to me and has been for the last twelve months. He plotted my
                            defeat and ruin with Jos. A. Wright  and P. M. Kent
                            & Co…. This I will also demonstrate. No man can be my friend and sustain
                            his paper or justify his course.
                        I doubt not, as you suggest, his paper is becoming exceedingly popular with such Whigs as
                            have opposed, vilified, slandered and blackguarded me from boy to manhood. Such Whigs will
                            eulogize and approve his course; such Whigs will subscribe for and sustain his paper,
                            because they are aiming at the same object the traitor they sustain is, viz. the division
                            and destruction of the democratic party in our county, district and State. But the idea of
                            any man who claims to be my friend continuing one moment to support this calumnious
                            Free-Soil selfish sheet is preposterous. I can not in the limits of a letter give you the
                            data in my possession, but when I return I shall give it broadcast to every democrat in the
                            county.
                        As to another "Democratic Press," that is a fixed fact. The chaff must be
                            separated from the wheat. Traitors and honest democrats cannot affiliate.
                        I am glad Rolla and Hibbs4 have taken the stand they have. In view of
                            what has passed you had better continue on until I return. Look at his publication in my
                                defense5 taken from the Delphi Times,—"Published
                            by Request;" as much as to say we will not defend this man nor will we voluntarily
                            give publicity to any defense others may make for him; yet he tells you "He has no
                            war with the Brights." No, he is too low and corrupt a scoundrel to entitle him to
                            my notice. But from his peculiar position (one he took without my
                            knowledge and consent, and one I was told after he got it he would disgrace) he shall have
                            my attention, and I will show that he has a war with democratic principles over my
                            shoulders, and I intend to use my efforts to bring about a short peace which will result in
                            the expulsion of this damned scoundrel from our ranks. I write you freely, my old friend,
                            and this letter is not intended for publication or general circulation, but if you choose to
                            show it to Rolla Doolittle, Captain Kirk, Wash Thomas and John Marsh I shall not object. I
                            would prefer, however, that things rest as they are until I return.
                    
            
            It so happened that this letter was delivered, not to the addressee but to another Taylor, a Whig,
                    who gave it Mr. Garber. Its language and assertions measure the animosity that possessed the writer
                    and which moved his followers in 
                        Madison
                     to offer insults and persecution, which were borne until the victim could endure no
                    more.
            Whether Mr. Taylor, the Whig, gave the letter to Mr. Garber immediately or soon after its receipt is
                    not known. It was printed in the Courier, verbatim et literatim, on June 3, 
                  
                     4 The reference is to Rolla Doolittle and 
                                Hamilton
                             Hibbs. Doolittle was later editor of the Madisonian, which
                            Senator Bright started as "another Democratic press" to drive Garber's Courier from the field. Hibbs was the man who signed the insulting card,
                            and who so nearly killed Garber about a year later. The P. M. Kent and Company, referred to
                            in this letter, were publishers of the New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger.
                  
                     5 The refutation by Garber of the charge made by Robert Dale Owen that
                            Mr. Bright had bribed a member of the Legislature.
               
                     1851. After that letter came into his hands, whenever it may
                    have been, Mr. Garber became an uncompromising Wright man. The Governor was just as good a Democrat
                    as Senator Bright, and each maintained that he was the genuine brand. On June, 4, Garber printed
                    some excerpts from Mr. Bright's letters written to him before Gov. Wright's veto
                    to show that the Senator then regarded him favorably, and commented on the Judge Taylor letter with
                    considerable resentment and some humor. Referring to Mr. Bright's statement in the letter
                    that the editor "took" that position [as editor of the Courier]
                    without his knowledge and consent, a passage of Garber's editorial suggests that the
                    Senator should establish a passport office at 
                        Madison
                     before returning to 
                        Washington
                     and leave "Rolla and Hibbs" in charge, lest some one else come to 
                        Madison
                     "without his knowledge and consent."
            On July 25, 1851, the first issue of the Madisonian, the new "Democratic
                    Press" to which Mr. Bright had alluded in the Taylor letter, made its appearance, Rolla
                    Doolittle being the editor. The Courier courteously welcomed it: 
                        The first number of the Daily Madisonian is on our table, looking as well as new type and the
                            life long experience of Mr. Doolittle in the business can make it. We wish the paper
                            success, and hope it may do much good in the cause. We can do this cheerfully as we are
                            confident it will not interfere with our Courier.
                    In the same issue appears the editorial headed "WRIGHT AND BRIGHT" from
                    which Mr. Murphy quotes in his study of Mr. Bright's political career.6
            
            It would be well if this story could be ended here, but that is not possible. After editing the Madisonian alone for a little while, Mr. Doolittle was succeeded by or associated
                    with Robert S. Sproule in the conduct of the paper. The new man was a government employe at 
                        Washington
                     under an appointment secured by Senator Bright. He was gifted in saying stinging things
                    and the exchanges of the two Democratic papers published in 
                        Madison
                     became bitter. Michael C. Garber, II, who succeeded as editor of the Courier when his father died in 1881, asked Mr. Doolittle, with whom friendly relations
                    had long been re-established, to let him look up something in the files of the Madisonian in his possession. Mr. 
                  
                     6 Murphy. Political Career of Jesse D. Bright,
                        119.
               
                     Doolittle said, "no, not unless you insist upon it. I
                    don't want anybody to read the mean things I said about Col. Garber." But Mr.
                    Sproule could say harder things than Mr. Doolittle, and he let himself loose, all of which
                    contributed to the near tragedy that followed.
            On January 25, 1852, a public meeting was held to arrange for the reception of Louis Kossuth, the
                    Hungarian statesman and patriot who was about to visit 
                        Madison
                    . Mr. Garber, Chas. Baymiller, assistant editor of the Courier, 
                        Hamilton
                     Hibbs, and perhaps others, were appointed a committee for that purpose. Hibbs declined
                    to serve stating that he would not serve on a committee with such men as Garber and Bay-miller. Not
                    satisfied with that, the following card, dated January 27 and signed "Ham Hibbs,"
                    appeared in the Madisonian on January 28: 
                        At the Kossuth meeting held in this city on the evening of January 25th, I was appointed as
                            one of a committee to make arrangements for the reception of the illustrious Hungarian. To
                            this committee were added the editors of the Courier, M. C. Garber and C. P. Baymiller, and
                            having publicly stated at the meeting that I would rather be associated with a negro than
                            such men, I for this and several other reasons, respectfully decline serving upon the
                            committee.
                    
            
            What reason was there for publishing such a card three days after the meeting had adjourned, sine die, except to heap another public insult upon the head of the man whom
                    Senator Bright had denounced? Hibbs, who was a carpenter, had not education enough to have written
                    the card. It was probably written by some one in the Madisonian office who had
                    Hibbs sign it, and who may have suggested that if he should be about the door of the Courier office in the late afternoon, about the time Mr. Garber would be leaving, he might
                    enjoy seeing how the man looked after reading it.
            The card was not as insulting as many other things that the Madisonian and Bright
                    men said. Mr. Bright in the Taylor letter referred to Garber as a "traitor," a man
                    who was "in the market," "a corrupt scoundrel" too low to
                    notice, and as a "damned scoundrel" who by his efforts would be expelled from
                    Democratic ranks. Although Mr. Garber was born and grew to manhood in 
                        Virginia
                     where a man to be considered a gentleman was honor bound to resent an insult at any
                    cost and entertained that idea himself, he had up to this time remained  under restraint. After ten months of abuse and villification, the card
                    was the straw that broke the camel's back. With time to think, he probably would have let
                    this pass, too, but it so happened that he came face to face with Hibbs immediately after reading
                    the card.
            The Courier office at that time was in the second story of the 
                        Madison
                     Insurance Company building, still standing [1931] on the northeast corner of West and
                    Second streets [
                        Madison
                    ]. The office of the Madisonian was on the second floor of the
                    building immediately north of the Insurance Company building, both buildings facing west. The window
                    farthest north in the office of the Courier and the south window in the office of
                    the Madisonian were and are so close to together that articles could be passed
                    from one office to the other. In fact, the employees in the two offices were in the habit of passing
                    the first papers from the presses to each other across the space between the windows, as the writer
                    was told by Mr. John A. Crozier who died in 1893. This gentleman was an employe in the Courier office in 1852 and afterwards a partner of Mr. Garber in the conduct of that
                    newspaper. In this way, according to Mr. Crozier, the Madisonian containing the
                    Hibbs card came in to Mr. Garber's hands just as he was ready to leave his office. Access
                    to the second story of the Insurance Company building, then as now, is by a stairway leading up from
                    Second street at the east end of the building. As Mr. Garber came out on the sidewalk of Second
                    Street from the foot of this stairway, he met Hibbs, whose story was, and Mr. Crozier always
                    believed it to be true, that he was simply passing by on his way home from his work. He was carrying
                    his tools, innocent enough in themselves, but some of them had cutting edges which would make them
                    effective weapons in case of an attack, which the card he had signed might be expected to provoke.
                    At sight of Hibbs, Mr. Garber's long pent up wrath broke loose. He spat in the
                    carpenter's face and struck him. Hibbs stabbed the angry Editor three times with a chisel,
                    cutting to the lung with each stroke. Garber was carried to his home where he lay for many days
                    hovering between life and death. After a little more than two months, however, he was back again at
                    his office editing his paper which during his incapacity had been carried on by Mr. Baymiller. The
                    mother of the writer of this article  has told him that Hibbs,
                    contrite and repentant, frequently came and sat on the curbstone in front of the house anxious to
                    learn the condition of the stricken man and hoping for his recovery. Mr. Crozier seems always to
                    have believed that Hibbs' presence at the door of the Insurance Company building was
                    accidental, but the question naturally arises how it happened, if carpenters carried their tools
                    then in the manner now customary, that the tool most resembling a lethal weapon was in a position to
                    be reached for such instantaneous use if occasion for that use had not been anticipated. It is not
                    known where Hibbs lived or where he had been working, so we cannot know whether his direct way home
                    would have taken him by the Insurance company building or not. As it was an undisputed fact that Mr.
                    Garber was the attacking party, probably little investigation was made as to the circumstances
                    surrounding the unfortunate encounter.
            The Madisonian, after a few months, found the grave that awaits newspapers started
                    to serve individual instead of public interests. Mr. Garber continued to conduct successfully the
                        Courier until he went into the Union army in 1861. His military service
                    continued one year after the war was over when he again took up his editorial duties which he
                    continued until his death in 1881. It happened that he was in 
                        Washington
                     in December, 1861, awaiting military orders, when Senator Bright was expelled from the
                    Senate for writing a letter, addressed "To His Excellency Jefferson Davis, President of the
                    Confederation of States," introducing and recommending to his favorable consideration one
                    Thomas B. Lincoln, of 
                        Texas
                    , who was in 
                        Richmond
                     to dispose of improved fire arms. It was on the invitation of Senator Henry S. Lane
                    that Michael C. Garber was in the Senate Chamber at the time the vote on the resolution to expel his
                    fellow townsman from the 
                        United States
                     Senate was taken.
         
         
         
            Documents CIVIL WAR DIARY
            OF JABEZ T. COX
            
            [The diary of which portions are here reproduced was kept by the young soldier in a leather-bound
                    pocket note-book (51/2 x 3 in.). All the entries were written with a pencil, save those of the first
                    five days. The diary was begun on April 11, 1864, about one month before the company was mustered
                    in. During the waiting period, young Cox studied Latin and read law. His Latin teacher, called
                    Professor Cochran by the diarist, enlisted in the same company with his pupil. His name appears
                    several times in the pages of the diary. The young law student expressed the belief in his first
                    entry that he could "never become eminent as a lawyer without taking advantage of every
                    stray moment". After the war was over, he returned to the law. Some years later, he became
                    a judge of the circuit court of 
                        Hamilton county
                    . The Cox family lived in 
                        Bethlehem
                     of the same County. The company, one of those recruited for one hundred days service,
                    was formed at 
                        Noblesville
                    . The first entry printed below was written on the day that the diarist entered the
                    service.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        May 12th 1864 Jacksons company was to go to camp to day. After bidding my parents and
                                    the rest of the family good by I and 
                                        Milton
                                     Brag walked to town and after forming in the Court House square we
                                    marched down to the depot and while I was waiting for the train Aunt Mary and her
                                    children came to bid me good by: after the train came we got aboard: we were a merry
                                    set of fellows as ever started to war little thinking of the hardships that are to
                                    come After arriving at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     we marched to camp Carrington and went into quarters. In a short time
                                    we drew our rations and our company was soon collected around the fires getting
                                    dinner the hurry and bustle of camp life was all around us the sights and sounds
                                    entirely new to the greater part of our company yet when the dinner was ready we all
                                    fell to with a will to devour our meat bread and coffee. After dispatching our
                                    dinners we went out for Brigade drill. The men on drill this evening numbered four
                                    thousand. They were drilled by Gen Carrington and considering the short time they
                                    have been in camp done remarkably well Gen Carrington is a small man slightly built
                                    with black whiskers and moustache and keen looking black eye.
                        13th Waked up this morning at three oclock by the rowdy boys  and had breakfast by day light had company drill in the
                                    morning and brigade drill after dinner Man shot by the guard this morning while
                                    trying to break guard.
                        14th Nothing of any interest occurred to day. We had no brigade drill
                        15th Sunday in camp is but very little different from any other day. The examination
                                    of men commenced yesterday was continued to day and I concluded Uncle Sam knew no
                                    sunday I and four others climbed the fence where there was no guard and went a
                                    fishing: we caught a few small fish and went back into camp by putting our hats in
                                    our pockets and passing the guard at a break in the fence: any one could pass out by
                                    to the canal to wash by leaving their hats and the guard thinking we had left our
                                    hats suffered us to pass In the evening a squad of us wishing to go out formed and
                                    marched down to the colonels quarters but he would not let us out to church even:
                                    and so starting out as if we were going to drill we went through several evolutions
                                    then marching straight past him without any pass, we wended our way toward the
                                    city—we went to presbyterian church.
                        After church we started for camp and taking one way between the camp fence and the
                                    canal we came to a place where we could climb the fence climbing steathily up we saw
                                    the guard pacing his beat right beneath us and concluded that was not the
                                    place—went along the lines:got away from the patrol and got in
                        16th Had dress parade to day
                        17th Got a pass and went out in town and then as we came back they would not pass us
                                    in on it at the gate, so we went down the fence and the guard passed us in without
                                    looking at our pass.
                        18th Morning dawned clear and beautiful to day and the commissioned officers were all
                                    here to day for the first time. The hundred and thirty three (133) Regiment was
                                    mustered yesterday and received their uniforms to day and went out to the common and
                                    piched their tents. The boundaries of camp was enlarged so as to include the green
                                    common on the north West Camp Carrington is situated on the East of the canal and
                                    between the canal and the 
                                        Lafayette
                                     Rail R. It is a splendid place for a camp. looking toward the South
                                    East we see the city stretching away in the distance and North west looms up a hill
                                    some five mile distance: a large house situated on its side looks like a mere speck
                                    in the distance and an orchard on its summit looks like a mere speck of green.
                        25th The officers roused us this morning at day break and we began to prepare to
                                    leave old Camp Carrington. The rain was pouring in torrents and we had to form and
                                    march down to town in mud six inches deep at every house we passed along ladies and
                                    gentlemen were waving a good by
                        After going to head quarters and drawing our guns we marched to the 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                     & Ind Fgt [freight] Depot. Governor Morton A. G. Noble and
                                    others were there and the dispatches received by Morton from Stanton were read and
                                    we gave three cheers for the good news. Morton 
                                    then made a short speech. He told us that the well wishes of the State accompanied
                                    us as much as any regt that ever went to the field that he honored
                                    us for the devotion and gallantry we evinced by leaving our occupation at this time
                                    of year and going into the service that he thought the service required of us would
                                    not be of a very dangerous character but whatever we were called upon to perform we
                                    would do it gallantly. We left Ind'pls about 2 oclock P.M. and passed
                                    through several nice towns before dark. 
                                        Franklin
                                     [,] County seat of Johnson Co Edingburg [,] 
                                        Columbus
                                     [,] Co seat of Bartholamew Co and Seymour. At dark we laid down in the
                                    cars and slept tolerably well until about three when the cars stopped at
                                    Jeff—and we got out and formed and marched down to the bank of the
                                        Ohio river and after remaining there a short time we were
                                    marched to a freight depot and went to sleep again
                        26th Daylight this morning we formed and marched on to the George Cromwell ferry boat
                                    and were ferried across the river a heavy fog was hanging to the waters edge so that
                                    we could see scarcely any thing a hundred feet distant. After landing we marched on
                                    three sides of three squares of the city of 
                                        Louisville
                                     a distance of four miles and then went out to camp Taylor barracks. I
                                    was well pleased with the appearance of the city; there are many ne residences; and
                                    shade trees all tlong the streets the only thing I sadr'to mar the
                                    appearance of the city and that is the narrowness of the streets several flags were
                                    hung out from splendid mansions and many bright faces smiled us welcome and waved
                                    their herchiefs some scowled upon us and we could see their deep hatred while
                                    marching through the city we stopped at a fine boarding house near the Plante[r]s
                                    Hotel and some of us went in the yard to eat our breakfast on the grass
                        28th In camp Taylor yet but we leave to day at 12 oclock for Smith-land at the mouth
                                    of the Cumberland. Had inspection this morning and at 12 oclock teams came to haul
                                    our baggage to the boat.
                        When we went aboard the boat we deposited our guns and accoutrements and were soon
                                    scattered over the boat—the Union. She is a fine boat and bound for 
                                        New Orleans
                                     the deck hands were pulling and hauling away getting every thing ready
                                    to start and at 5 in the morning we left 
                                        Louisville
                                     or rather 
                                        Portland
                                     a part of Louisv'le The darkies that attended to the cabins
                                    were dressed in style and I thought rather looked down on soldier boys
                        About dark in the evening [29th] the boat stopped on the 
                                        Kentucky
                                     shore to take on some hay and the dark[ie]s piled out to put it in it
                                    was up on a hill some 50 feet high and when a bale once got started it took all
                                    their strength to keep it from going into the river it was funny to see their action
                                    sometimes the hay would run right over them but little cared they. A little after
                                    dark we spread our blankets on the lower deck and went to sleep
                        30th When I first opened my eyes this morning we were passing very near the Indiana
                                    shore; and instead of the bluffs I noticed the night before only a bank arose some
                                    fifty feet high while the bluffs appeared  to
                                    have shifted to the 
                                        Ky
                                    side About sunup we passed two gun boats going up the
                                    river—We have heard several vessels since sunup and the river is much
                                    wider than yesterday
                        A few miles below 
                                        Troy
                                     the river is near a mile and 1/2 wide with low banks on either side
                                    while away down the river is another village on the 
                                        Ky
                                    side shining in the sunlight. I did not learn the name of it, but there
                                    are some fine farms just below it Passed 
                                        Rockport
                                     Ind it is partly situated on a river bluff whose smothe rock face
                                    looked like it had been hewn by the hand of man. About 11 we passed Owensboro in 
                                        Ky
                                    it is a town of considerable size and contains some good buildings
                        A few miles above Newburg we passed several large islands that looked like large
                                    round mounds as we passed down toward them but when we came nearer they assumed and
                                    elongated form
                        Newburg is pleasantly situated on the left [right] bank of the 
                                        Ohio
                                     it contains several good brick houses along the way, and just back on
                                    the hill are several pleasant residences. From the warf we have a fine view of the
                                    river for miles about a half mile below is a large island with a dwelling and a
                                    considerable farm on it Sitting on the hurricane deck as I looked up the river I
                                    could see for miles while the hills rolled away on the Indiana side and away ui-the
                                    river the tall trees looked like a mere thread of green
                        A short time after leaving 
                                        Evansville
                                     we came to a beautiful Island in the river just above Henderson.
                                    Henderson is a town of considerable size pleasantly situated on the bank of the 
                                        Ohio
                                    . A gunboat was lying opposite the town to keep off the gurrillas that
                                    were just back of town. Just below Henderson town we passed a large Island called
                                    Henderson island, and some mils below another called Dranond Island we passed just
                                    after dark: and stopped at 
                                        Mount Vernon
                                    , Ind
                        31st Arose just at daylight and we were passing a boat but I did not learn the name
                                    of it. The country had assumed a different aspect since dark last night we had
                                    passed the Indiana line and were passing between 
                                        Ills
                                     and Ky, the bluffs arose on either side and on the 
                                        Ills
                                     side two large hills arose with the front of solid rock broken and
                                    ragged giving a very romantic appearance to the country Just after sun up we passed
                                    a bluff on the 
                                        Ills
                                     side with a jagged rock front that contained two caves one of
                                    considerable size and about 3 miles below the cave 3 Islands the 1st was small and
                                    2nd but little larger but the third was some miles long and had some cleared land on
                                    it the river before was 2 miles wide or more but after we crossed the islands became
                                    very narrow again. Opposite the largest island on the 
                                        Ills
                                     side is a small village called lisoon: a few miles below the town on
                                    the 
                                        Ills
                                     side is a bluff some mils long with a large cave in the lower end but I
                                    did not learn the name Golconda is a pleasant looking little village with large
                                    island above and one called Golconda some three miles below it is covered mostly
                                    with small trees. The bluffs on the 
                                        Illinois
                                     side is partly covered with small cedar trees with other small trees of
                                    different kinds 15 miles below Golconda we arrived at Smithland at the mouth of the
                                        Cumberland river: there is  a large island right opposite the town in the
                                        Ohio river. The mouth of the Cumberland is not very broad
                                    but deep, and the water of a deep clear bluish color and when the water of the two
                                    rivers intermix each preserves its color and loc 3 like grease in muddy water. The
                                    scenery is beautiful here in Smithland the fort mounting one grove is on a high hill
                                    right back from the town and is manned by Co G 48th 
                                        Ky
                                    Vols and a Co of the 34th are quartered in the town. There have been
                                    some gurrillas near here within a short time and about five miles distant over the
                                    Tenessee river there are plenty. They have four picket posts one on each roade The
                                    village has been a very prosperous little place but the war has brought a great
                                    change over the place Some remains exist of fine brick buildings that belong to
                                    rebels and were destroyed by the soldiers. We stacked our arms in an orchard just
                                    behind the town; A week ago the fruit trees in Indiana were just in bloom. But the
                                    apples on the trees here are large as partridge eggs As I stood on the parapet of
                                    Ft. Sten and looked up the river the little green Isles and far off shore looked lik
                                    a band of light blue stretched across the river and down beyond the town, the broad
                                    river looked a street of gold. Seen at a distance the 
                                        Ohio
                                     looks of a whitish hue while the Cumberland looks a deep blue. We
                                    received orders about 1 PM to go to 
                                        Nashville
                                     on the 1st boat that passed up that way at dark a waggon came after our
                                    Camp equip-age and guard was sent after to guard them until a boat came. We-posted
                                    yard around camp and all went to sleep except those on duty. it was the first time I
                                    had ever ben on duty as corporal of the guard, while my relief was on I lay down and
                                    thought of the time when I was so fond in my boyish sports of any play that had any
                                    thing of military in it and never thinking then that I would be engaged in the
                                    reality.
                        June 1 After going to sleep we were awakened about 2 o'clock we were
                                    awakened by the Lieut ordering us to fall in and go to the landing we went on double
                                    quick and aboard of the Nymph No 2 bound for 
                                        Nashville
                                    . We went on the Hurricane deck and winding our blankets around us we
                                    lay down and slept until day light (June 1) at dawn when I waked we were steaming
                                    along up the Cumberland. The face of the country had changed considerable since we
                                    left the 
                                        Ohio
                                     the banks were low and sandy with but little cleared lang along the
                                    river banks, about sunup we came to the town Dykeyburg it is a small place with two
                                    or three business houses on the Shore. The Cumberland is a fine river and as we
                                    floated up the river we saw several droves of ducks, some 15 miles up the river we
                                    came to a large bluff. Every man we seen we made pull his hat or we drew a bead on
                                    him. About noon we passed another bluff of solid rock but not so high as the other.
                                    The sun at this time of day became very hot and oppressive as it beat on the
                                    hurrican deck of the boat. At Eddieville we got off and filled our canteens out of a
                                    spring right at the edge of the water roofed over with large rocks the water was
                                    cold as ice. The town is county seat of—county 
                                        Ky
                                    and contains some good business houses and some pleasant residences. The
                                    first we knew of being in 
                                        Tennessee
                                     was a view of the 
                                        Tennessee
                                     rolling mills, Jusb above the mills the river bank raises to the hight
                                    of 90 feet and then after a level interval of some few yds. a wall of rock raises to
                                    the hight of 6 ft with large trees on top.
                        
                        Below the mills is the only island of any size since we left Smith-land On the
                                    passage we have met two boats the Jolly 
                                        Franklin
                                     and [the] J L Kellogg they were bound for 
                                        Nashville
                                     but the water at the shoals was too shallow and they having no
                                    protection had to go back down the river. Canton is a small mean little town on the
                                    Cumberland: the boat landed and several of the boys went ashor and were welcomed
                                    only with scowls. Out on the bank was an old steam boat high and dry. Just below the
                                    town we ran aground but after backing off three times we floated clear and went on.
                                    At dark the water was so shoally that they concluded to stop and lay over until
                                    morning we put a guard on the boat and fastened the boat to the shore At day light
                                    we started and after traveling four miles came to fort Donaldson the country before
                                    we arrived opposite the fort is generally tolerable level with an occasional
                                    eminence
                        At Clarksville we stopped to leave some freight it is a Town of some importance, the
                                    lnrgest between Smithland and 
                                        Nashville
                                    . the houses are mostly of brick and well built. The railroad between 
                                        Louisville
                                     and 
                                        Memphis
                                     runs through it. After leaving Clarksville we went on until near dark
                                    when we ran aground and stopped before an hour there was 4 boats thumping on the
                                    shoals near us. A guard was put on the boat and we took our guns and laid on the
                                    cabin floor with our catridge Boxes on and guns by us.
                        June 3. Awoke early this morning and climbed the hill and when we went back to the
                                    boat we had to march near a mile over the rocky shore when we reached the shoals we
                                    had to march again near 2 miles when we stopped and went to the house of a Secesh
                                    and he got dinner for the most of the co he was eat out before they all got dinner
                                    and after laying around awhile we went back to the boat and found them just off the
                                    Shoals just above the shoals is the wrecks of 3 steamboats and one gunboat captured
                                    by the rebels. Wheeler and Stephenson were left at the shoals and the boat run
                                    ashore for them but they being rather slow were left and had to walk to Ashland
                                    landing.
                        4th We awoke this morning in the city of 
                                        Nashville
                                     or rather in the warf, and after disembarking we marched to the camp of
                                    our Regiment north west of the State house. we had been there only about one hour
                                    when we left for Murfreesboro and arrived there about three oclock, and pitched our
                                    tents on the East bank of Stone river.
                        5th My first sunday in 
                                        Tennessee
                                     was a hot and sultry day, and our tents were pitched on the river bank
                                    in the sunshine in the morning a squad of us went into town to draw rations The town
                                    is larger than I at first thought it is a town of some 2,500 inhabitants or was
                                    before the commencement of the war; it was formerly the capital of 
                                        Tennessee
                                    , and the state house is a good building. the Brick wall around it is
                                    torn down and numerous soldiers huts erected around the building. I wrote two
                                    letters to day one to grandmother and one to uncle Sile. In the morning the air was
                                    cool and pleasant but at noonday the sun beat down fiercely and almost smothered us
                                    in our little tents. About 6 oclock P.M. we left the fort and marched about neart 2
                                    miles from the railroad bridge over  stone River,
                                    to a fine grove northeast of the Town near the contraband quarters
                        17th Went on picket on the 
                                        Shelbyville
                                     pike this morning it was a beautiful place in a grove cool and shady
                                    and when not on duty we lay around under the trees and slept In the evening about
                                    supper time we observed some fine milk cows grazing on the hill so we sallied forth
                                    and milked enough for our suppers. After supper Stoops and I went about a quarter of
                                    a mile east of the reserve post to see a large spring or it is rather a creek
                                    bursting out of a rocky hill the rocks appear to have been bursted or broken to
                                    pieces and heaved in all shapes by an earthquake. We entered several small caves in
                                    the rock one that extends near a hundred feet into the hill When we came back Hugh
                                    Lee handed me a letter from home I was pleased to hear they were all doing well and
                                    glad to receive news from my relatives at home
                        18th Was relieved this morning and went to camp. I was not on either battallion or
                                    company drill Lieutenant Farley went with a number of our com to Stone river to
                                    bathe
                        In a hill on Stone river we found a cavern but did not explore it to ascertain its
                                    size
                        19th I went on pickett this morning on the Lunette Davis station with Sergeant
                                    Williams Corporal Arnot 4 of our co and 11 men from co "I" It was
                                    a very hot day and we almost smothered laying in the hot sun with but a slight
                                    shelter Sunday on pickett is but little different from any other day Lank[,] Corp
                                    Mc[,] Col.[not Colonel] went on Pickett this morning but I did not get with them
                                    they went on the 
                                        Salem
                                     pike. The station we are now on is on part of the battle ground of
                                    Stone river The ground is covered with high weeds bushes and black berry vines full
                                    of berries which are getting ripe
                        Jim Williams our sergeant the corporals mysel f and V. M Arnott was awakened at 1
                                    oclock and posted the guards and returned to the post all was still except the
                                    howling of a dog that appeared to be tied about one hundred yds from the pickett.
                                    near 3 oclock when the day was almost dawning the noise ceased and all was quiet
                        20th We were relieved this morning and after going to camp Syke White handed me a
                                    letter from my uncle William H Cox that contained some good advice
                        21st When Frank McShane and I awoke this morning the rain was pouring in torrents and
                                    the outer world looked wet and desolate no drum beat for reville this morning and we
                                    had no roll call The principal amusement in camp today was throwing little darkies
                                    on a blanket men would form a ring around a blanket every one holding with both
                                    hands to the blanket, the darkey was thrown on the blanket letting the blanket slack
                                    so as to give him a good swing they would tighten it suddenly and send the ill fated
                                    darkey fifteen and twenty feet in the air and then catch again on the blanket. In
                                    the evening the "bommers" co K caught the Sarjeant Major and
                                    despite his struggles they put him on the blanket and sent his portly form flying
                                    into the air Their captain and the adjutant were compelled to go through the
                                    performance, and they ran the officer  of the
                                    Guard out side of the guard lines. At roll call we took a vote on the nomination for
                                    president and voted unanimously for Lincoln and Johnson about 3 oclock Lank came to
                                    the tent with a tale of firing on
                        22nd Detailed to go on picket today with Fisher and Sarjeant Snively but we did not
                                    get together they went to the 
                                        Salem
                                     pike and 1 with Syke White the remainder of our company and 1 sarjeant
                                    two men and one corporal of the 116th 
                                        Ohio
                                     went on the 
                                        Manchester
                                     pike it is a good place near the spring and cave Stoops and I visited
                                    last friday evening
                        A fellow from town came down and the Sarjeant and corporal and him went into the cave
                                    some yds and found a sack and large tin cup There are all kinds of looking character
                                    the proud southern aristocrat the poor whites and the poor contrabands One rather
                                    strange charactel passed today an old but rather rough looking man riding a small
                                    horse not more than half as large as himself he informed us that the had voted for
                                    Andy Johnson but had as good as swore not to vote for any man until the war was over
                                    In the evening an old darky woman was passing and the Sarjeant picked up a rock to
                                    drive a tent stake and remarked that he was not going to hit her and one of [us]
                                    said to her she was not afraid of Yankees Oh no sah I does not, hadent bin for the
                                    Yankees dey a done had me used up afor dis time. We had a pretty good supper
                                    consisting of Coffee Tea Hard Tack light bread Stewed apples and milk About 10
                                    oclock a gun was fired at or near the front post of our part of the lines and a
                                    bullet whizzed uncomfortably near the picket but the one that fired was not seen or
                                    heard and all remained quiet As I sat in the moonlight musing on the scene before me
                                    I thought of the privation and suffering the southerners have caused by their
                                    rebellion all the rich land before me was covered with a growth of weeds the fine
                                    mansions torn down or their beauty ruined and the owners where mere they wandering
                                    perhaps with the rebel armies fugitives from their native state or filling traitor
                                    graves on some battle field and all to preserve what has e'ver been a curse
                                    to this beautiful State
                        23rd With the sun the stream of darkies begun pouring down the pike Were relieved and
                                    went to camp nothing worth mentioning transpired in camp today With the exception of
                                    a visit from two officers from the front Lietenant Conklin and Capt White, wrote a
                                    letter home today
                        24th Went on camp guard to day for the first time since we have been here Was
                                    awakened at one by the corporal of the second relief and after putting on the guards
                                    I returned to the guard house where Col Newby was on guard It was a soft southern
                                    moonlight night with a cool breeze blowing as there always is here and nothing save
                                    the distant howling of a dog to disturb the quiet scene and the distant steady tread
                                    of the guard, and I could not but contrast the scene presented now with that of 3 or
                                    4 years ago then the open space to the west was as fine a grove as that in which we
                                    are encamped the tread of armed men and the clang of arms had never been heard on
                                    this quiet spot ' the inhabitants of the surrounding mansions were enjoying
                                    liberty peace and prosperity but alas how many by their own act have brought ruin on
                                    their homes 15 men from our corn left to day to protect the town Darbuckle Among the
                                    no was our Orderly, Noble ant my friend John Stoops
                        
                        25th Came off guard this morning at 9 oclock. The com was drilled in skirmish drill
                                    this morning by Cap White of the 101st and complimented for their efficiency in the
                                    manual of arms.
                        30th Our regiment was mustered for pay to day I saw some of the boys that were
                                    pickett on Woodbury pike The story was that about 11 oclock some one inside and
                                    outside of the line commenced firing at the picketts with what was supposed to be
                                    revolvers They sent to camp and got 20 men they then doubled the guardes they then
                                    ceased firing at the guards and went up and attacked the reserve post the heaviest
                                    firing was at that time finding a good force at the reserve post they retired with
                                    the loss the Guard thought of one man
                        1st July 1864 I went on pickett again this morning on 
                                        Shelbyville
                                     pike it was a beautiful day and verry pleasant for "his season
                                    a cool breeze was blowing all day. in the afternoon I and Two others discovered a
                                    cave in the rock only a short distance from the reserves the walls and roof were of
                                    solid smoothe limestone rock and it was large enough for a person to walk slightly
                                    bent we went in near a hundred feet and then the opening became so small that a
                                    person would have to crall no one knows what may lie undiscovered beyond this a
                                    rival of the Mammoth Cave may exist here Among our squad is a Hanoverian belonging
                                    to Co "G" he is a singular character always carries all his
                                    property with him that he possesses to the picket post and them to his post. When my
                                    time came to put on the picketts I was awakened but Corporal Arnott could not sleep
                                    and as he was going to stay up I could go to sleep
                        5th A fine day once more nothing to day except the usual routine of camp life nothing
                                    of any interest often occurs in camp everything is dull. Sometimes there is a great
                                    noise raised against the cooks or commissary sarjeant because they had not received
                                    their full rations
                        6th Went on pickett this morning on the West 
                                        Lebanon
                                     post this is one of the worst posts on the pickett lines, out on the
                                    open plain which was once a finely cultivated field but now over grown with tall
                                    weeds bushes and Briers there is one redeeming feature that is berries and apples
                                    exist plentifully verry near between the reserve post and town the ground is covered
                                    with trees felled to give play to the guns of Frt Rosecrans they are all that
                                    remains of what was once a fine grove within a hundred yds of us the brass cannon
                                    looked grinningly over the breast works Between us and Stone
                                    River is the graves of several union soldiers near the mounments over the
                                    graves of a Southern family They are a verry fine marble beautifully carved and
                                    ornamented. Near the spring we go for water is a part of Stone river battle ground,
                                    and I find that nearly all the ground for some distance north and west of the town
                                    was the scene of a sanguinary contest Whenever any one passed over the battle field
                                    he must think of the days when the cannon thundered and muskets rattled along the
                                    banks of Stone River
                        
                        8th The drum beating revielie failed to awake me this morning I was sleeping so
                                    soundly when I awoke the sun was shining brightly I  have come to the conclusion that a man in the army is
                                    almost as much of a slave as the negro in the cotton there an over seer directs and
                                    orders without doing any work here a sarjeant or a corporal sets on a stump and over
                                    sees men that work like slaves without doing any work themselves. Sometimes it is
                                    for the benefit of the men at times solely for the benefit of the
                                    officers—Afternoon Haines [,] Chappell[,] Col Newby and I went in pursuit
                                    of berries we went a mile and a half east of camp after crossing over the
                                    breastworks came into a large field containing near a hundred acres that was
                                    formerly I suppose highly cultivated but now one great thickett of briers and
                                    Sassafras bushes
                        9th The sun poured down his scorching rays today unchecked by any clouds If it were
                                    not for the frequent rain and cool zreezes it almost constantly blows here the heat
                                    would be insupportable The duty we had to perform to day did not cause us any
                                    trdouble we had no battalion drive but in the evening the sky became overcast and
                                    the rain soon commenced falling and we had a wet evening
                        10th Went on camp guard to day. In the afternoon a thunder storm came up and the rain
                                    descended in torrents I spread my rubber blanket over my head and sat down, the rain
                                    soon began to run under the tents and the inmates began yelling like Indians This
                                    the certain follower of a rain as soon as the tents get wet inside the boys
                                    immediately yell.
                        11th After being relieved to day Haines[,] Smiley[,] Lank and I got through the lines
                                    and went after our usual object of pursuit black berries we walked about six miles
                                    and returned before roll call with a quart each
                        When the mail came this evening I confidently expected to get a letter but was
                                    disappointed by not getting any we passed through two large fields of cotton it will
                                    soon be in bloom and the darkeys say there will be a fine crop it is all the
                                    property of uncle Sam the darkies are hired by the month there are several hundred
                                    acres of government cotton in this vicinity
                        12th The sky was overcast with clouds to day and looked like rain but the rain did
                                    not come until time for battalion drill the boys were glad to see it rain at this
                                    time to get rid of drill. The rain ran in a stream through our camp and made it far
                                    from agreeable. This living in tent is not very agreeable when it rains the rains
                                    pays us a visit in the tent at night when we spread our blankets at night they are
                                    soon covered with bugs of all kinds and varieties from as large as a mouse to the
                                    size of a pin head.
                        14th Was relieved this morning and marched into camp as usual The battalion drilled
                                    skirmish drill this evening the boys were all deeply interested in this drill.
                        some of the 17th U S Colored a portion of which is camped near our quarters passed
                                    through this evening they are all stout heartly looking soldiers their arms and accouterments are in fine condition and if it had not been proved
                                    before a view of these fellows would give the lie to the copper head tale that they
                                    will not fight
                        15th The camp this morning has an unusual number of waggons  buggies and other vehicles in from the country with
                                    pies and Chickens and CC the most striking among them was an old waggon drawn by a
                                    yoke of oxen the waggon contained some flour Chickens Huckle berries[,] pies made of
                                    the same an old lady old gentleman and a negro woman they came near twenty miles In
                                    the afternoon we went out to drill the skirmish and double quicked about two hours
                                    over high weeds dead cows and mules & co
                        16th After dinner Haines[,] Prof Cockran[,] Fisher and I went out in the country on a
                                    foraging expedition after passing the old breast works we found a goodly patch of
                                    briers and fell to picking the berries we heard a yell and saw Snively comeing
                                    through the bushes We then left with Snively and went about two miles farther into
                                    the country and came to a large cornfield. The corn looked nice and promises a good
                                    crop 
                                        Tennessee
                                     I believe has the reputation of being a great corn growing state war
                                    this was a field occupied exclusively by bushes and briars of about 2 years growth.
                                    After filling our haversacks with berries we arrived at camp in time for dress
                                    parade. The F.F.F.
                        17th Went on pickett this morning on Woodbury pike directly east of the court house
                                    it is in an' old grove near the college building its founder I do not know
                                    his name is buried near in a large limestone sepulcher This pike is traveled a great
                                    deal by contrabands and F.F.F. one old slave passed through the lines and came back
                                    with a pile of wood on his head he was 92 years old. Near noon a woman driving an
                                    old primitive one horse waggon passed she had a very sorrowful tale to tell of her
                                    husbands being arrasted on a charge of feeding bushwackers
                        It appears to come natural to the negro to show a pass when he comes through the
                                    lines for he has been used to it but it goes "hard" with the proud
                                    southerners to have to show a pass every time he rides out
                        18th Came off pickett this morning as usual nothing of any interest was going on in
                                    camp today. Except the not very pleasant duty of Skirmish drill
                        19th Beautiful morning with not a cloud to check the hot rays of old Sol. Professor
                                    Cockran and my self went down the branch for the purpose of was[h]ing our clothes
                                    and after some hours of rubbing we returned with them not much improved in looks We
                                    had general inspection this evening by a member of, Gen 
                                        Van
                                     Cleves staff[,] Capt Harrison[,] and he had been lately married to a
                                    young widow of 30 worth half a million but I would have considered the lady an
                                    incumberance to the future. She came with him and remained seated on the horse while
                                    inspection was going on.
                        20th Another fine day after noon Elam[,] Rob and I went to town and visited the
                                    Christian commission it contains a fine collection of books it is nearly always
                                    filled with soldiers writing or reading its patrons should surely have the thanks of
                                    soldiers
                        21st Went on camp guard this morning at the guard house beneath the old tree we found
                                    eight prisoners seven committed for sitting and one for sleeping on posts
                        
                        30th Cloudy today and looks like rain I am sick today. Col Foster came from town and
                                    we had battalion drill I understand that when we get back to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     we and the 132nd are to drill against each other
                        31st Went on pickett today with some of the convalescents our sarjeant belonged to
                                    the 18th Regulars and had been in several bloody fights. They were fine jovial
                                    fellows: About 2 oclock it commenced to rain as if the bottom was knocked out and so
                                    continued until night I had been sick and had a fever all day. At dark I spread my
                                    gum blanket in the wind and laid down but I slep very little
                        August 1st 1864
                        This morning a waggon train came along the pike going after forage guarded by our com
                                    Nearly every one went but the sick and those on pickett After the relief came I
                                    started for camp but it was a long weary tramp as sick as I was. Our quarters looked
                                    quite lonesome bu the[re] was enough noise in other parts of camp Heavy storm in
                                    camp today
                        2nd Sun shining this morn I went up to the Dr at sick call to get some med-He
                                    prescribed S. In an awful dose[,] almost a tea spoonful [of] Capicu and a pill of
                                    Hydrarg, to be taken three times a day, and I was excused from duty
                        3rd Went to Dr. again this morning still had a high fever was not really able to get
                                    up The prescription I received was the same as yesterday. If I were at home I would
                                    not be up any at all but here I go as long as I can and then ly down In the evening
                                    our com came from their expedition They had a somewhat exited tale to tell of an
                                    attack on the train by gaurrillas a Lieut com[manding] a squad received three holes
                                    through his hat and coat he killed one reb and three were taken. Rain to day
                        4th Raining this morning when I awoke. I felt better than yesterday not so much fever
                                    the medicine I took today was Phlo Rhei and 
                                        Dover
                                     At sick call the doctors tent is thronged with soldiers complaining of
                                    the divers diseases some really sick others trying to play off Sickness is something
                                    the soldier dreads more than battells hard fare and hardships They were nothing as
                                    long as I kept well but when I got sick I could not help thinking of the kind
                                    treatment I would receive at hom if there
                        5th Beginning to feel pretty well today. have had no fever at all to day Took nothing
                                    [but] Tinc of iron (the Dr said it was to strengthen me) In the evening the Lieut
                                    that commanded our boys in the affair with the bushwackers came into camp with his
                                    lady he is a resolute determined looking man
                        6th A fine morning sun shining brightly and drum beating furiously when I awoke. I
                                    felt a great deal better today than the day previous The treatment was the same as
                                    yesterday: went out and took a cold bath in the spring branch
                        7th Sunday in camp again the first time I have been off duty on sunday for several
                                    weeks I went to see the Dr again this morning he prescribed the same treatment as
                                    yesterday Had Regimental inspection at 8 34 oclock. It was fine weather all day and
                                    we had no rain at all
                        8th Went to the dr this morning and had the same treatment prescribed as before
                        
                        9th Still unable for duty went to the Dr and got excuse from duty but took no
                                    medicine at all rain again to day
                        10th Went to the Dr again this morning and was excused from duty but took no medicine
                                    I have not a very good appetite yet for beans and fat meat. Just at dinner a darkey
                                    came in with some pies and I purchased one for dinner. Down here the darkies are all
                                    that sell reasonable to soldiers and are really the only friends we have yet
                                    whenever they come to camp the boys curse them and threaten them
                        11th Still excused from duty but am taking no medicine at all rain again today I
                                    bought part of a leather army pie for dinner
                        12 Detailed to command the wood squad to day When we started it looked gloomy like
                                    rain, and we had not gone far until it commenced but the rain soon ceased and the
                                    sun came out the Ceadar barren that we went to was about 3 miles out from the
                                    pickett post on 
                                        Nashville
                                     pike on the west side of the pike It was a very gloomy place and
                                    cricketts were chirping at noonday In the evening when I went to camp I was feeling
                                    pretty bad
                        13th A very fine morning to day. About 9 o clock Lieut Farley came down to our
                                    quarters in a great hurry and wanted Sjt Snively and four men with 40 rounds of
                                    cartridges after a spy they went and returned in the afternoon with nary spy and
                                    very tired
                        14th Had no inspection (rain)
                        15th Detailed to go on camp guard but changed with Arnott who is not fond of pickett
                                    When we started it was raining and rained all the way to town but ceased after we
                                    got there I was not well this morning and against we got to our post I was almost
                                    smothered The boys occasionly took tole [toll] out of the waggons loaded with
                                    peaches & melons
                        16th Early this morning some waggons came along loaded with water meloons The boys
                                    secured six without causing any alarm After being relieved we started for camp by
                                    taking it slow and easy I got there nearly tired down No Bat today on account of
                                    rain
                        17th I went to the 1st assistant surgean and was excused and took three doses
                                    of—: There was some excitement in camp last night false marching orders
                                    or no orders at all Comp. Sarjt Burdett did it to get some water carried for the
                                    cooks, but failed. We had rain again to day
                        18th Went up to the Dr this morning took no medicine I traded some coffee to day for
                                    a pie and found the crust made of old bread gathered up around our camp that is the
                                    style of a great many pies the darkies bring in. Camp life is wearisome to almost
                                    any one and it is worse when a person is sick I received a letter from
                                        home this evening which I suppose is the last one I will get where we
                                    remain here. Rain again to day
                        19th Bad and gloomy morning raining some. A part of our com (25) started for
                                    Tullahoma to guard cattle today they were some time getting in ranks and Farley
                                    roared and yelled at them as if the safety of everything and everybody depen[d]ed on
                                    their being quicker than double chain lightning After while they started and Farley
                                    not being able to get a horse had to walk through the mud I went to the Dr this
                                    morning and took one dose of med-I felt very weak and bad all day
                        
                        20th Tolerbly fine looking morning bu the weather was showery all day sun shone hot
                                    whenever the clouds were out of the way I went up to the Dr again this morning but
                                    got no medicine At roll call as I had no gum blankett to put up in front of my tent
                                    I lay down cross ways and rolled up in my blanketts The rain soon descended in
                                    torrents; the tents commenced leaking and large stream came down on to my ears I put
                                    my hat over my head and went to sleep, the rain continued until morning and long
                                    after daylight
                        21st Sunday, raining this morning and continued until after sick call had no
                                    inspection on account of the rain Gen 
                                        Van
                                     Cleve was corning to camp to review our regt but did not come irom the
                                    same reason. Twenty five of our company being gone it was a lonesome and gloomy day
                                    and not a ray of sun light illumined the scene
                        22rd Monday. It was quite foggy this morning but the fog soon cleared off and we had
                                    a pretty good day. At sick call I went up and got my dose of quinine and was marked
                                    light duty In the evening our boys came home from Tullahoma they had few adventures
                                    to relate as they met with no bushwackers
                        23rd I went to town this morning and as some orchards happened to have no fences we
                                    went for peaches. The town was filled with waggons loaded with melons Apples and
                                    Peaches. the soldiers buy about one tenth of every load and steal the remainder Of
                                    course the old "rebs" dont like it but it cant be helped and so
                                    they put up with it There may be a great many Union men in tenn but they are very
                                    scarce in Murfreesboro and vicinity
                        24th I went to Dr this morning and was excused from duty Took Tinc of Iron About
                                    10'0 the Sarjeant Major came down with the news that we would leave
                                    tomorrow at 8 oclock They all commenced to get ready the officers tents were taken
                                    down and hauled away About night the rations were drawn and the cooks were buy all
                                    night cooking, and the camp was in an uproar
                        Thursday 25th—I awoke at 2 'oclock and there being so much noise
                                    in camp that I could not sleep I got up and went down to the cook shed I found
                                    several boys engaged in cooking a chicken that they had cap tured about five miles
                                    off We had reville and breakfast at four packed our knapsacks and left our old camp
                                    homeward borund. The face of the country had changed a great deal since we went to
                                    Murfreesboro the corn and cotton was then small the corn is now ripe and the pods of
                                    cotton bursting. the country generally looks desolate And old cotton press and an
                                    occassional dwelling with a few cultivated fields was all the signs of civilization
                                    seen we arrived at 
                                        Nashville
                                     about one o'clock. We left 
                                        Nashville
                                     for 
                                        Louisville
                                     at about five o'clock as we went whirling on the country was
                                    gently rolling and has been nearly all cultivated we reached Gallatin just at dark
                                    so that I could not see it. When I awoke we were at a little station in 
                                        Ky
                                    with only one house in view It was then nearly day, we went roaring on
                                    in the early morning the country along the road was generally wild and covered with
                                    a growth of small oaks The next station was Cave City 64 miles from 
                                        Louisville
                                     At Munfordsville only part of the fortifications remain I only seen two
                                    or three  houses in the town: the bridge across
                                    Green River is very high and made of Iron The next Town of importance was
                                    Elisabethtown Arrived there about eight and left at one after leaving there The road
                                    winds around the side of Mularough Hill The next and last town before reaching 
                                        Louisville
                                     was Lebanan junction reached 
                                        Louisville
                                     about 4 oclock and left for 
                                        Portland
                                     and crossed to New 
                                        Albany
                                     just as the rain began to fall in torrents We lay around the depot
                                    until 1 3/2 oclock when got aboard a train and rolled out: it was
                                    [so dark] I could not see, and 1 went to sleep but did not sleep much all night
                        Sat 27th the country was pretty level until we reached 
                                        Mitchell
                                     a town of considerable importance at 
                                        Bedford
                                     about 75 miles from New 
                                        Albany
                                     the ladies were out at the depot with coffee and all kinds of eatables
                                    we went to eating as only half starved soldiers can and as we left cheer after cheer
                                    went up from street and car. After leaving 
                                        Bedford
                                     the [country] was generally hilly with some fine fields of corn in the
                                    bottom We arrived at 
                                        Bloomington
                                     near 1 o'clock and were rather pleased to find that the
                                    cityzens had a good dinner for us Some ladies came into the [place] where there was
                                    some of us not able to go to the public square with coffee and several kinds of
                                    eatables the next town we came to was Gosport in 
                                        Owen County
                                     We remained there one hour waiting for a train to pass The country
                                    between there and 
                                        Greencastle
                                     was gently rolling with some fine farms. It was dark when we reached 
                                        Greencastle
                                     junc we did not change cars there but went directly on for Indpolis
                                    Reached there about 1 oclock and went to the soldiers home
                        28th Sunday: got breakfast this morning and then marched to Camp Carrington As we
                                    went past the State house Gov Morton was out to see us pass. Our company went into
                                    the same barracks we went into when first went to camp The boys were all merry over
                                    getting back to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     again I being sick and not having slept scarcely any in three days and
                                    nights went to sleep early
                        29th Had a grand review to day 132 133 136 49 and two regts of the invalid Corps were
                                    out at the State House and were addressed by the Cols of the respective regts and by
                                    Gov. Morton while the Gov [The diary stops here in the midst of a sentence which was
                                    never completed.]
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            By CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN, Secretary
            The William Henry Smith Memorial Library has recently acquired a copy of the large and handsome
                    volume 
                  
                            Virginia
                         Historical Portraiture, published by the 
                        Virginia
                     Historical Society. This volume contains several hundred portraits of persons connected
                    with the history of 
                        Virginia
                     from the days of Queen Elizabeth to the nineteenth century. Its publication was an
                    aftermath of the elaborate exhibition of portraits in oil featured by the Society several years ago,
                    when hundreds were borrowed from private owners and temporarily added to the fine collection of the
                    Society itself.
            Another acquisition is a copy of the rare Lewis Aboriginal ortfolio of Indian portraits, reproduced
                    in color from paintings made from life by James Otto Lewis about a hundred years ago.
            The completion by the architects of the plans and specifications for the new State Library and
                    Historical Building makes the time seem nearer when the Smith Memorial Library will be taken out of
                    storage and made available for use by historical students. By the time this magazine reaches its
                    readers the plans and specifications will have been published and the date fixed for the opening of
                    bids for the construction of the building.
            The High School Committee of the Society for 1932 has been organized with Daniel W. Snepp, Bosse High
                    School, 
                        Evansville
                    , chairman. Others who have accepted appointment on the committee are: Willis
                    Richardson, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    ; Merton G. Kimes, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    ; C. Roy Williams, 
                        Bloomington
                    ; L. J. Scheidler, Martinsville; William A. Pitkin, 
                        Frankfort
                    ; Paul Seehausen, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; A. Ross Williams, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Helen Benney, 
                        Valparaiso
                    ; Russell T. McNutt, 
                        Muncie
                    ; Florence Richards, 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; C. L. Kuhn, 
                        South Bend
                    ; William Gardiner, 
                        Mishawaka
                    . This committee in the near future plans to contribute and edit a number of the Indiana History Bulletin in the interest of history, especially Indiana history,
                    in the high schools of the state.
            
            The George 
                        Washington
                     Bicentennial focusing, as it has, the attention not only of schools, but of the country
                    generally, upon the beginnings of the American nation, furnishes an opportunity which history
                    teachers cannot afford to neglect to "strut their stuff." If it succeeds only in
                    making pupils tired of George 
                        Washington
                    , it will be a setback to the cause of history and good citizenship. If, on the other
                    hand, it gives people a truer and fuller conception of the beginnings of our national history and of
                    the political principles which were developed by the man who was not only the Father of his Country
                    but the greatest character in American history, it will give an impetus to historical education
                    which will be felt for many years to come.
            The receipt of a copiously illustrated book on Covered Bridges in America by
                    Rosalie Wells, and advertisements of collections of etchings, and other artistic reproductions of
                    pictures of covered bridges, emphasizes the possibilities before the committee on Covered Bridges of
                    the Indiana Historical Society. The members are: R. B. Yule, State Highway Commission, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , chairman; H. B. Longden, DePauw University, 
                        Greencastle
                    ; Mrs. Kate Milner Rabb and J. J. Daniels, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . One of the projects which will be carried out as soon as possible by this Committee is
                    the collection of photographs of all existing covered timber bridges in the state, perhaps two or
                    three photographs of each bridge from different angles. These photographs would be a valuable item
                    in the William Henry Smith Memorial Library. It is probable that in a relatively few years the
                    covered timber bridge will be a great rarity. It is indeed within the limits of possibility that
                    none will be left. They filled such a place in the transportation system of the nineteenth century;
                    they bore so evidently the stamp of the personality of those who built and used them; they were so
                    distinctly American, that they merit preservation, both in their own proper character and in the
                    pictorial record of the state.
            The chairman of the executive committee has appointed the following committee on the 1932 pilgrimage
                    of the society: Walter O. Williams, Walter H. Montgomery, both of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Clarence H. Smith, of 
                        Newcastle
                    .
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               A History of Indiana. By CHARLES ROLL
                    (volumes 1-11, history); by a special staff of writers (volumes 111-V, biographical sketches). The
                    Lewis Publishing Company, 
                        Chicago
                    , 1931. Pp. xlvif543, 531, 496, 400, 506, illustrated.
            Some day during a pilgrimage to the attic, if one will look among the books that belonged to
                    grandfather, he will be pretty sure to find there a large tome whose faded gilt tells of its former
                    glory. It belongs to the numerous county histories that appeared during the seventies and eighties
                    of the last century. If the pilgrim will open its pages he will find an account of
                    grandfather's life history and accumulations-perhaps even his whiskered visage peering from
                    a yellow page. This biography was gratuitously published, but grandfather subscribed for one or more
                    copies, and these were expensive books, even in that day of low prices.
            When one picks up Professor Roll's History of Indiana and glances through
                    it, his first reaction is to conclude that the writing of the type of the old county history has
                    been revived, except on a more pretentious scale—a state history. But there is a
                    difference. These old county histories were not written by reputable historians. Here is what
                    appears to be the same sort of thing done by a reputable historian—a scholar and teacher
                    of history. Why did Professor Roll undertake such a work? This is the question that his fellow
                    historians are likely to ask unless they take the trouble to read Professor Roll's work.
            Volumes I and II of the set include the History of Indiana, and make up the part
                    actually written by Professor Roll. If the reader expects something that lives up to the outward
                    aspect of the work, he will be disillusioned at once. Professor Roll approaches his subject not as
                    Indiana by itself, but treats the territory and state as a part of the Old Northwest. He begins with
                    a touch of its pre-historic background: then makes a clear sketch of New 
                        France
                     as it extended out along the Great Lakes and projected itself over into the
                        Mississippi valley; then comes the story of the struggle with the English
                    for supremacy. Though briefly done, the author presents a  living
                    picture of this portentious struggle in the wilderness. Following the elimination of 
                        France
                     is the account of the ten years of British policy in the Northwest; then the dramatic
                    story of the region during the Revolution. Next the reader sees the infant nation work out for the
                    Northwest, now its public domain, a system whereby it may be developed into new states. Finally he
                    sees the new nation, under its recently adopted constitution, triumph over a long cherished British
                    policy of maintaining an Indian buffer province, making the settlement of the Northwest possible. It
                    is a great panorama, and never once is the reader lost in its unfolding.
            By the time the reader is ready to take up the story of Indiana Territory, he has reached a definite
                    conclusion, especially if he happens to be a teacher of American history. There has existed a long
                    list of scholarly works on the history of the "Old Northwest," but no satisfactory
                    general survey of it. Professor Roll has used all these materials, both secondary and source; has
                    built up from them a thorough survey; and through it all shows the teacher's touch in the
                    clarity of his statement and organization. He has produced a survey of the "Old
                    Northwest" that will solve a real problem for the teacher who wishes to familiarize
                    students of general American history with this field.
            The period of Indiana's novitiate as a territory, was marked by such interesting characters
                    as Harrison and Tecumseh, and by such events as the War of 1812. Still, the author is temperate in
                    his treatment of these interesting characters and events. Then comes statehood. Again Indiana is
                    treated as a typical unit in the great westward growth of the nation. The reader sees it in response
                    to the hard times of the early twenties, in the sweep of Jacksonian democracy, in the grip of the
                    speculation fever of the middle thirties. The career and influence of the Whig party is passed in
                    review and, its strength and weakness in the west made clear. The reader sees the frontier state
                    grow into a substantial commonwealth with mature agricultural communities, growing towns,
                    transportation systems and educational institutions. Then he witnesses its dramatic part in the
                    Civil War. All along, the author gives due place to the interest element but never allows it to
                    eclipse the value of his narrative. As a survey, the portion of the work from territorial days to
                    the Civil War is  nearly as satisfactory as the earlier part on
                    the "Old Northwest".
            Beyond the Civil War the author's approach is less satisfying. The national development
                    becomes a thing of such stupendous breadth that Indiana's part does not portray it
                    adequately. Even the treatment of Indiana's own development is a task requiring good
                    judgment in the selection of subject matter. Here, too, Professor Roll has done well. The reader
                    sees the state grow into a modern commonwealth; sees her response to industrialization and
                    urbanization; her contributions to the literary world and to political leadership; and last, the
                    development of her cultural and educational institutions.
            In these two volumes that make up The History of Indiana, Professor Roll has done a
                    timely piece of work. The publishers have done a beautiful job of printing, but it is much to be
                    hoped that Professor Roll may use the plates for an edition of these two volumes in a form more
                    suitable for a reference library. Should this be done, every teacher of American History should not
                    fail to stock his reference shelves with an adequate supply of this valuable survey.
            The three volumes of biography are of doubtful value to the historian. He can get some ready
                    information on Hoosiers who have made a contribution to the country's history. There is
                    apparently no proportionate evaluation of these historic figures—important men may have
                    only a brief sketch, while men relatively unimportant may be given considerable space. As to the
                    biographies of the present day men of Indiana, should the historian of the future have occasion to
                    find out who was the leading physician, banker, or president of the Rotary Club, in a given Indiana
                    town in the year A.D. 1931, he may find it a helpful reference.
            ANDREW W. CRANDALL.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            England
                        , Russia, and the Straits Question, 1844-1856 (University of 
                        California
                     Publications in History, Volume 20). By VERNON JOHN PURYEAR, Ph.D. University of 
                        California
                     Press, Berkeley, 1831. Pp. xvi+481, $4.00 (paper cover).
            F. LEE BEENS
            
            In 1844 the Russian and British governments were in apparent agreement regarding Near Eastern
                    affairs, and signed in that year a secret treaty providing for their co-operation in  all Turkish matters. They even went so far as to agree upon a plan for
                    the ultimate pacific partition of the dominions of the notorious "Sick Man of
                    Europe". Within a decade, however, these two great powers were flying at one
                    another's throats in a war over the fate of this same "Sick Man". How did
                    this come about? The answer to this interesting question is set forth in this volume, which is an
                    intensive study of the diplomacy and international relations of the years 1844 to 1856.
            Upon Stratford Canning, a British diplomat who had earlier been refused acceptance as British
                    ambassador at St. Petersburg, must rest the major immediate responsibility for the outbreak of the
                    Crimean War, is the author's conclusion. This sanguinary struggle, "one of the
                    most curious and unnecessary wars in history", he asserts, was made inevitable by the
                    bellicose procedure and unauthorized manipulations of the British Mediterranean fleet by this
                    diplomat who in 1853 was British ambassador at Constantinople. Beneath the surface, however, there
                    were two general causes of the conflict. The first was the increasing rivalry between Great Britain
                    and Russia in Asia, a rivalry in which the commercial and strategk potentialities of the Near East
                    played a dominant role. The second was the failure in a time of crisis of the diplomatic
                    arrangements embodied in the Russo-British secret agreement of 1844.
            This admirable monograph-a doctoral dissertation, apparently-is the result of extensive research
                    among the records of the British foreign office and of the Board of Trade in 
                        London
                    , and is to a considerable extent based upon original manuscript material as yet
                    unpublished. It constitutes the most careful study of this involved question which has appeared and
                    provides a valuable and objective reinterpretation of the political and economic forces which
                    underlay the Crimean War. For the excellence of this work the author was awarded a prize by the
                    American Historical Association at its annual meeting last December.
            The volume has well selected bibliography and an adequate index.
            F. LEE BENNS
            
         
         
         
            
               Alexis Coquillard—His Time is an illustrated pamphlet of forty-four
                    pages published by the Northern Indiana Historical Society (Publication, No. 4, 
                        South Bend
                    , 1931). The author, Mary Clarke Coquillard, is the wife of Alexis Coquillard,
                    grand-nephew of the Alexis Coquillard who is the subject of the study. The subtitle of the paper,
                    which was read before the Northern Indiana Historical Society on February 23, 1930, is "A
                    Story of the Founding of 
                        South Bend
                    ". A co-partner of Coquillard in laying the foundations the now splendid city
                    on the southern bend of the beautiful 
                        St. Joseph
                     of the Lake was Lathrop Miner Taylor.
            Coquillard purchased a section of land in the St. Joseph valley in 1820. Taylor
                    came from Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in 1827 and "built his trading post at the foot of the present 
                        Madison
                     Street on the bank of the river 
                        St. Joseph
                    ". The post of Coquillard was "also on the river bank a little south
                    of Mr. Taylor's, on the spot now occupied by the La Salle Annex". Within a few
                    years a little settlement developed at the trading center. In 1829 the lands of the vicinity were
                    surveyed, and "Mr. Taylor was appointed postmaster of what was then known as Southold, 
                        Allen County
                    , Indiana".
            By 1830, many pioneers were settling along the St. Joseph and Elkhart
                        rivers. It was in 1831 that Coquillard and Taylor laid out the County Seat of the
                    newly formed 
                        St. Joseph County
                     on two tracts of land which they had purchased from the Government of the 
                        United States
                    . The name 
                        South Bend
                     replaced Southold in 1830. A number of citizens were not satisfied with the new name,
                    but fortunately it was not found possible to agree on a different one. In 1837-8, the enterprising
                    founders of the town financed the building of a bridge across the 
                  St. Joseph. Mishawaka
               , just to
                    the east, already had a bridge, and Portage, just to the west, was about to build one. By acting
                    promptly, 
                        South Bend
                     was not eclipsed by the former, while the latter faded out.
            Alexis Coquillard among other activities engaged in milling. A mill which he owned in partnership
                    with William Miller, was burned in January, 1855. While examining the ruins, Mr. Coquillard, then in
                    his sixtieth year, lost his life by a fall. It was Alexis Coquillard, son of Benjamin Coquillard and
                    nephew of the older Alexis, who became a great wagon manufacturer in 
                        South Bend
                    .
            Various sources have been used, by the author of the  sketch, but
                    there has been a heavy reliance on the 
                        St. Joseph County
                     histories by Chapman and Howard. The study by Mrs. Coquillard is interesting and well
                    worth while.
            In 1931, The Round Table, a society of 
                        South Bend
                    , Indiana, published a very attractive pamphlet of sixty-two pages, with the interesting
                    title, The Tragic Career of Mary Todd Lincoln. The account was written by Dr.
                    Charles Stoltz and read at one of the meetings of the Round Table during the season of 1930-1931.
                    The paper was selected as the outstanding contribution of the year. While plans for publication were
                    under way, the author died, which led to the inclusion of a picture of Dr. Stoltz and a short
                    appreciation by U. G. Manning.
            The first twenty-four pages are devoted almost entirely to the life of Abraham Lincoln in the period
                    before he met Mary Todd. The accepted view of the author is that Lincoln "left Indiana a
                    thoroughly sophisticated and well educated young man". Before proceeding to show the
                    cultural and intellectual advantages which Miss Todd enjoyed, Dr. Stoltz declares that there was
                    "nothing phenominal nor incongruous" about the marriage of Lincoln and Mary Todd.
                    "It was an intellectual match". While commenting on this alliance, the author pays
                    his respects to certain other writers: "No woman of the culture and refinment of Mary Todd
                    could have been drawn to the shallow uncouth Lincoln of the glib pot-boiler, Emil Ludwig; nor to the
                    unwashed ignoramus of Edgar Lee Masters; nor yet to the Lincoln of Beveridge's
                    diatribes".
            More than two thirds of his space has been consumed before the author reaches the tragedies of Mrs.
                    Lincoln's life. Of these there were many, and the facts connected with them are well though
                    briefly presented. No one can deny that the wife of the President during the Brothers' War,
                    with near and dear relatives fighting under the banner of the South and falling one after another
                    during the dreadful conflict, passed through harrowing situations. Without these unusual sources of
                    sorrow, there were multitudes of distracting situations to face. The culminating event was, of
                    course, the assasination of her husband. The troubles of her remaining years grew out of this great
                    tragedy, and Dr. Stoltz is at his best when he says: "It is hardly a figure of speech to
                    say that the bullet that sped on its way to take the life of the President also took  the life of Mary Todd Lincoln. From that moment, her submerged
                    pathological mentality became apparent".
            Barring certain passages scattered through the pamphlet that should not find a place in an unbiased
                    study, the account is well written and the reader lays it down with the feeling that the author has
                    presented the case of Mrs. Lincoln convincingly as well as vigorously. The intention of the writer
                    to accompany his narrative with footnote references was thwarted by his death. Several names,
                    Trumbull, Ray, Fillmore, are incorrectly spelled. It may well be that the author would have caught
                    these errors had he been privileged to read the proof.
            The Indiana Library and Historical Board has brought out a reprint of the very valuable volume, Laws of Indiana Territory, which was published by the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library in 1930 (Collections, XXI, edited with an
                    Introduction by Francis S. Philbrick). The Indiana reprint is issued through permission generously
                    granted by the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library.
            The Indiana reprint is listed under Indiana Historical, Collections, but is not
                    assigned a volume number. It carries all the matter of the regular 
                        Illinois
                     edition: the Introduction (216pp.), carefully prepared by Francis S. Philbrick,
                    professor of law, University of 
                        Illinois
                    ; an Appendix (57pp.); the Laws of Indiana Territory to 1809 (681pp.); a Bibliography
                    (2pp.); and an adequate Index (45pp.). In addition, the reprint furnishes a supplement to the
                    Appendix which could not be printed with the same, but which necessarily follows the Index. This
                    consists of five pages presenting a list of officials. There are also four maps of that part of
                    Indiana Territory which now forms the State of Indiana. These are inserted on a single folded sheet
                    at the very end of the book, and accompany four similar maps of that part of Indiana Territory which
                    now forms the State of 
                        Illinois
                    . The 
                        Illinois
                     maps were in the regular edition.
            The paper used in the Indiana reprint is thinner than that of the 
                        Illinois
                     edition, reducing the size of the volume about one half. The volumes is well-bound and
                    attractive. It is distributed free to libraries and colleges. The price to individuals as fixed by
                    the Indiana Library and Historical Board is  $3.00.
                    For permanent preservation in the State Library and other large libraries of the state, one hundred
                    copies of the volume have been issued on rag paper. The bringing out of the reprint is a venture to
                    be highly commended.
         
         
         
            Comment
            This is a year of national conventions to name party candidates for President and Vice President.
                    Incidentally, some platforms will be framed. It is of interest that 1932 is a centenial year in the
                    history of national conventions. The first meeting of the kind held by the Democratic party, then
                    known as the Democratic Republican party, was in May, 1832. The Antimasonic party held a convention
                    late in September, 1831, and the National Republican party followed with another in December. These
                    two conventions were held to nominate candidates for the presidential contest of 1832, and were
                    therefore in a very real sense features of that campaign.
            The Antimasonic convention, the first national nominating convention of any party, placed William
                    Wirt and Amos Ell-maker in the field. The National Republican convention unanimously and with much
                    enthusiasm named Henry Clay and John Sergeant. The Democratic Republican party was so certain that
                    Andrew Jackson must stand for reelection to the presidency, that the delegates did not even go
                    through the formality of nominating him. Instead a resolution concurring in the "repeated
                    nominations" which he had already "received in various parts of the
                    Union" was passed. The most important thing done by any of the three conventions of one
                    hundred years ago was the nomination of Martin 
                        Van
                     Buren as a candidate for Vice President by the Democratic Republicans on May 22, 1832.
            This remarkable man had held in rapid succession the high offices of 
                        United States
                     Senator from 
                        New York
                    , Governor of 
                        New York
                    , Secretary of State, and Minister to 
                        England
                    . He resigned his seat in the Senate to become Governor of the Empire State in 1828.
                    After a few months, he left this powerful office to enter Jackson's Cabinet. Two years
                    later, he gave up this commanding position in order that the President might have a chance to
                    reorganize his Cabinet and eliminate three undesirable members. 
                        Van
                     Buren was soon sent as minister to Great Britain. This was during the long recess of
                    1831. His nomination was rejected by the Senate in January, 1832. There was no sound reason for this
                    failure to confirm, but 
                        Clay
                    , Webster and Calhoun were the leaders of the Senators who assumed the responsibility of
                    humiliating 
                        Van
                     Buren.  In fact the vote stood 23 to 23, and
                    Calhoun, being Vice President, gave his casting vote against the man who he believed had undone him.
                    There were then 48 Senators one of whom was ill and not present. The other Senator who did not vote
                    was George M. Bibb of 
                        Kentucky
                    . He was somewhere in the Capitol when the vote was taken. It is believed with good
                    reason that Bibb remained out of the Senate chamber in order that a tie vote might be produced,
                    which would give Calhoun a chance to help in the killing of 
                        Van
                     Buren.
            The great men who participated in this small maneuver failed to accomplish their purpose. True they
                    forced 
                        Van
                     Buren to pack his trunk and return from 
                        London
                    , but they made him Vice President and set him on the sure road to the Presidency.
            In the convention of May, 
                        Van
                     Buren was easily nominated. Delegates were present from every State save 
                        Missouri
                    . The two-thirds rule since so important in Democratic Coventions was adopted, and each
                    State was allowed a num-of votes equal to the number of presidential electors that it was entitled
                    to chose in the coming contest. The balloting showed a division of sentiment just serious enough to
                    furnish some comfort to 
                        Van
                     Buren's enemies. Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                     supported a Kentuckian, Col. Richard M. Johnson. 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        South Carolina
                     supported a Virginian, Philip P. Barbour. The vote of 
                        Illinois
                     was divided between Johnson and 
                        Van
                     Buren, and that of 
                        Maryland
                     and 
                        Alabama
                     between Barbour and 
                        Van
                     Buren. On the only ballot taken, 
                        Van
                     Buren received 208 votes, as against 26 for Johnson and 49 for Barbour. Having received
                    more than the required majority, 
                        Van
                     Buren was declared the candidate of the party for Vice President. Then on a motion of a
                    delegate from 
                        Kentucky
                    , the nomination was made unanimous.
            A committee was appointed to draw up an address to the people of the 
                        United States
                    , but, on the following morning, the chairman reported to the convention that it had
                    seemed best to the committee to prepare nothing. Thus the first Democratic (Democratic Republican)
                    convention refrained from making a platform. Perhaps it would be just as well should the party of
                    Jackson return to this precedent in the year 1932. One thing is certain, the Democratic party has
                    missed a great opportunity by not arranging to have the national 
                    convention of this year convene on May 21, the hundredth anniversary of the meeting of the first
                    convention of the party.
            The future historian of railroads in the period of the World War and after will find interesting
                    facts to record and explain. Rates were necessarily greatly increased during war-time. Unfortunately
                    a further increase was allowed soon after the armistice, when a reduction would have been a better
                    business policy. The mistake of charging more than the traffic would bear, especially in the face of
                    competition from an ever increasing bus and truck business, was almost enough to wreck railroad
                    transportation. After clinging to rates so high that they were suicidal for years, a new appeal for
                    still higher freight rates was recently made and granted on the patriotic ground that the public
                    must save the great common carriers of the country. Saved they should be, but it would seem that an
                    increase in rates was anything but the right road to salvation under existing conditions.
            Periods of depression have come to an end always, and no doubt the present paralysis will terminate
                    in time. A colossal number of business failures, enforced and voluntary liquidation on a vast scale,
                    under-production for a long period—these, in the long run, will bring the business world
                    to the place, where activity must be resumed from absolute necessity. Then, with the natural
                    cooperation of many factors, prosperity will increase, augmented by an ever growing confidence.
                    Following the major panics of 1837, 1873, and 1893, the period of stagnation lasted, in each case,
                    from four to six years. In none of these did federal or state legislation have much if anything to
                    do with bringing about a return of prosperity.
            At the end of the third winter of the present depression, the public is impatient and unwilling to
                    wait two or three more years for a natural revival in trade and industry. In fact, the enormous
                    expansion of industry in the 
                        United States
                     since 1900 makes it seem impossible that millions of our people can survive if we are
                    only half way through the crisis. Now, if ever, the depression should be ended by legislation, if
                    such a  feat is possible. Either of two things, if tried promptly
                    and on a large scale, may accomplish something big enough to be really worth while. One is a large
                    issue of paper money with provision for partial withdrawal from time to time as conditions warrant.
                    Prices would be increased, trade and production would be stimulated, and confidence would return.
                    The real problem would be to control the new situation after creating it. The other possibility of
                    relief lies in some plan like that of Senator La Follette. It is apparent that all other proposed
                    remedies are mere headache powders, and hardly that.
            The Northern Indiana Historical Society is a vigorous and successful organization. This Society not
                    only sponsors several public meetings each year, but maintains a museum and library. The museum
                    collection contains hundreds of Indian artifacts, numerous pioneer household utensils and furniture,
                    some old musical instruments, and many relics of the wars in which the 
                        United States
                     has engaged. There is a collection of mounted birds native to northern Indiana. The
                    library consists of more than 8,000 volumes. The society has published several studies and will
                    continue to bring out others. The publications now available are: The Geological
                        History of 
                            St. Joseph County
                        
               , by Dr. H. T. Montgomery; The 
                            St. Joseph
                        -Kankakee Portage, by George A. Baker; The Indiana Supreme
                    Court, by Judge Timothy E. Howard; and Alexis Coquillurd--His Time, by Mrs.
                    Mary Clarke Coquillard. The President of the Society is Dr. H. T. Montgomery, the Secretary, Mr.
                    John A. Hibbard, and the Assistant Secretary and Curator, Miss Anna H. Stanfield, who, on request,
                    kindly furnished the facts here presented.
            Contributors to this issue: Judge James A. Collins, of Juvenile Court fame, lives in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Mrs. Grace Julian Clarke is a well known writer living in 
                        Indianapolis
                     (
                        Irvington
                    ) who has favored the Magazine with several valued articles in recent
                    years; Professor Heber P. Walker is head of the department of history in 
                        Evansville
                     College; Mr. William S. Garber is a citizen of 
                        Indianapolis
                     of the firm of Garber & Garber, Shorthand Reporters; Dr. Andrew W. Crandall is
                         professor of American history at DePauw University; Dr. F.
                    Lee Benns is professor of Modern European history at Indiana University. The diary of Jabez T. Cox
                    was loaned to the Editor by Albert L. Cox, a grandson of the diarist and a student
                    at Indiana University during the year 1930-1931.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
            Wanted
            We are sure that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications, will confer a
                    great favor by writing to the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need for copies of issues from 1905
                    to 1918--especially for: the four numbers of volume IV (1908); number one of volume VI (1910); the
                    four numbers of volume VII (1911); the four numbers of volume VIII (1912). We will buy also further
                    copies of the following issues: Mar., 1914; Dec., 1921; Mar., 1922; Sept., 1922; Dec., 1922; June,
                    1923; and Mar., 1926.
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries or individuals who
                    may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty-cents a copy, or
                    two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four
                    dollars per volume, except in the case of certain numbers which have become very scarce the price is
                    one dollar and a half per copy, causing the price per volume to vary accordingly; single copies from
                    1905-1913, when they can be supplied at all, must be priced at a higher figure.
            
            Mr. George S. Cottman, the first editor of the Indiana Magazine of History, who now
                    resides at 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, R. R. 5, has a complete file of the Magazine which he is
                    willing to sell to any library for $200. The first three volumes are bound, but the
                    remaining volumes are unbound. The opportunity to purchase an unbroken file from the beginning is
                    unusual. Anyone desiring to purchase should write to Mr. Cottman, or to the Indiana
                        Magazine of History.
            
            
               Indiana School Journal. Wanted vol. 37, numbers, 7-8 (1892); vol. 38, numbers 6, 9,
                    10, 11, 12 (1893); vol. 40, numbers 4, 9, 10, 11 (1895).
            National Educational Association Proceedings. Wanted for 1860, 1864, 1872, 1884,
                    and 1885.
            The Indianian. This magazine was published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 1897 to 1900, six volumes in all. Wanted: Vol. I, number 1 (Dec. 1897), number 2
                    (Jan. 1898), numbers 4 and 5 (March and April, 1898); vol II--number 1 (June, 1898); vol. VI--number
                    1 (July, 1900), number 3 (Sept., 1900), number 6 (Dec., 1900). Will purchase an extra set of the six
                    numbers of vol. I, bound or unbound.
            
               Indiana, Past and Present. This little, temporary periodical was published during
                    1914. Wanted a copy of Number 2 (May, 1914).
            
               The Mennonite Quarterly Review. Wanted a copy of vol. I, number 1.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
