
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 72, Issue 4, pages 291-390. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:72+issue:4+year:1976&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Adjourned in Peace: A History of Piner Baptist Church
            Sylvia C. Henricks∗
            
            "The church of christ on the Forks of Little Buck creek1 met persuant to
                    ajournment … on the 2d Saturday in July 1833. after prase and prair … the
                    church proceded to business."2 From that first business meeting in 1833
                    to the last in 1906 this small Baptist church grew in size, built two houses of worship, served and
                    admonished its members, declined in numbers, and finally disbanded. During those same years the
                    rural Indiana community in which the church was located developed from a pioneer settlement to a
                    thriving farming area on the southeastern edge of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Organized on June 8, 1833, at the home of Nehemiah Smith, the church's Baptist foundation
                    was evident from the "previously called for help" it received from neighboring
                    churches of that faith. Lick Creek Baptist church sent five men, Bethel three men, and Pleasant Run
                    two men to help start the church. The group chose a moderator and a clerk and, "inviting
                    visiting bretheren to a seat in counsel," began the meeting.
            The Articles of Faith, "called for red and approved" by the church's
                    organizers, were modeled on those in common 
                  
                     ∗ Sylvia C. Henricks is an assistant in the Indiana Central
                            University Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and author of a weekly historical column in the 
                                Franklin
                             Township (
                                Marion County
                            ) Informer.
                  
                  
                     1 While the official name of the church was the Church of Christ on
                            the forks of Little Buck Creek, the church was known locally as "Piner,"
                            and the cemetery still bears the name. It is not known where the name
                            "Piner" originated—perhaps a contracted form of pioneer or in
                            reference to pine trees that may once have grown there.
                  
                     2 Unless otherwise indicated all quotations were taken directly from
                            the church's two record books containing the minutes of business meetings from 1833
                            to 1906. The books are in the possession of Ruth and Helen McMillin, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Capitalization and spelling follow that of the original. Punctuation was added
                            only when needed for clarity.
               
                     use among early Baptist churches in 
                        Kentucky
                     and Indiana and reflected Piner's predestinarian beliefs:3
                    
                        
                            
                        
                           1st
                           We believe in one only true and living god the father the word or son and holy
                                        ghost equal in wisdom power and glory.
                        
                        
                           2nd
                           We believe the scriptures of the old and new testament to bee of divine
                                        authority and the only infalable rule of faith and practice.
                        
                        
                           3rd
                           We believe in the total depravity of human nature and that a recovery from
                                        that situation is wholy and entrely of the free sovreign unmerited grace of god
                                        in christ Jesus.
                        
                        
                           4th
                           We believe that god prposed in himself for his own glory to make a display of
                                        his wisdom power Justice goodness and truth in the works of creation.
                        
                        
                           5th
                           We believe that god from eternity purposed to save his people from their sins
                                        for his holy names sake and that in infinite wisdom he dvised the plan and
                                        apointed every means nesesary to accomplish the great end of their redemption
                                        which he affects in his own good time by the operation of his holy
                                    sperit.
                        
                        
                           6th
                           We believe that believers are Justifyed before god alone by the rihteousness
                                        of Jesus Christ imputed to them.
                        
                        
                           7th
                           We believe that good works are the effects of the faith of gods elect and
                                        follows being born of the sperit and in this point of view are evidence of a
                                        gracious state.
                        
                        
                           8th
                           We believe baptism and the lords supper are ordinences of the gospel
                                        instituted by Jesus Christ and none but those who process [sic] faith in Christ and obedience to his will are fit subjects of
                                    either.
                        
                        
                           9th
                           We believe immersion according to the scriptures and apostolick practice to
                                        bee the only proper mode of baptism.
                        
                        
                           10
                           We believe in the resurrection of the boddy both of the Just and unjust and
                                        that god will Judge the world in righteousness by that man whoom he hath
                                        Ordained.
                        
                        
                           11th
                           We believe the righteous will for ever abide in the peacefull presance of god
                                        their redeemer and his pardning grace and forgiving love will bee the theme of
                                        their song while the wicked shall remain in ever lasting torment.
                        
                     
                        
                    
            
            The first meeting also adopted rules of decorum, which served the church with only minor changes
                    throughout its history.4 The first rule provided for opening and closing prayers
                    at each meeting. The church then established the offices of a moderator and clerk who respectively
                    conducted 
                  
                     3 Piner's doctrinal platform closely followed the 
                                Philadelphia
                             Confession of 1742, a model frequently used by Baptist congregations. See John
                            F. Cady, The Origin and Development of the Missionary Baptist Church in
                            Indiana (Berne, Ind., 1942), 28–30.
                  
                     4 In November, 1833, "annuley" in Rule 2 was changed
                            to "occasionally," and it was voted "to erase that part of the
                            third rule that related to enquiry after fellowship." Rule 3 was restored to its
                            original form in January, 1834.
               
                     and recorded the meetings. To ensure order at each meeting the
                    rules required that only one person speak at a time and that no one individual voice his opinion on
                    a particular subject more than twice without permission from the church. All questions were to be
                    "decided by a majority except the reception of members and that to be by
                    unanimity." Finally, the assembly made provisions to settle disputes between members and in
                    the last rule exhorted the brethren "to attend ther stated meetings of the dissiplin except
                    providentially hindered and to keep and mentain the worship of God as a church."5
            
            After laying down basic doctrine and church order the council examined the members,
                    "withdrew and after consulting return and reported and sung and prayed giving a charge and
                    the right hand of fellowship and pronounced them a gospel church of Jesus Christ, the names of the
                    members in constitution were as follows, viz Elijah Vice, Susan Vice, Nehemiah Smith, Sarah Smith,
                    Wm Forsythe, Sarah Forsythe, Edmond Lovett, Mary Lovett, Abraham Henricks, Susan Henricks, Franky
                    Smith, Rebecca Perkins, Elizabeth Vice, Susan Vice, Francis Vice, Nathaniel Vice, Polly Vice, Benson
                    Cornelius and Thomas McFarland, Betsy McFarland, Deborah Cornelius, Sarah Wicoff, after which the
                    church agree to call her name The Baptist Church of Christ in the forks of littee Buck Creek and
                    adjourned to meet the 2d sat in July next."
            In line with the rules of decorum the business of the church was carried on by a moderator, a clerk,
                    and deacons. At various times trustees and a treasurer were appointed to serve. One of the first
                    items of business recorded in the July, 1833, meeting was the choosing of a moderator and clerk and
                    two deacons. The church selected Elijah Vice to serve as moderator, Thomas McFarland as clerk, and
                    Nehemiah Smith and Elijah Vice as deacons.
            The moderator performed an important role in the church. He presided at business meetings held on the
                    second Saturday of each month and at all special sessions of the church. As a part of each business
                    meeting and also the Sunday service he "opened the door for the reception of
                    members." 
                  
                     5 Rule 10 was added in April, 1848: "All mail members
                            absenting themselves for three stated meting of the church shall be delt with the same as
                            for other offences." An attempt in January, 1853, to change Rule 10 failed, but it
                            was amended in April, 1870, to include the phrase "without any just
                        caus."
               
                     The moderator also had the duty of guiding the church in
                    decisions concerning its property, its relations with other churches of the same faith, and the
                    members' duties to each other. He chose the committees needed to do the work of the
                    church—whether the task was to "bear the letter to the Association," to
                    aid in an ordination service at a sister church, to investigate the cost of hitching racks, or to
                    visit a dissatisfied church member. He needed to be a man of authority for the church meetings were
                    sometimes turbulent. The church was never without a moderator, although often a moderator pro tem
                    presided. Those who served as moderator included Abraham Smock, Elijah Vice, Nimrod Kemper, William
                    Forsythe, Nehemiah Smith, Benjamin M. Phillips, Abraham Henricks, Jackson Kemper, George Riggs, Amos
                    Morris, and Asa N. Parr.
            Of all those who served the church only the clerks left a still extant legacy, the church record
                    books. The clerk kept the minutes of the business meetings and recorded the decisions of the church
                    as they were made. The duties of the clerk also involved reading the previous month's
                    minutes and handling all correspondence, including the yearly letter to the association.
                    Occasionally, his duties were expanded. For example, in December, 1846, it was voted "to
                    keepe a standing fund and have aponted the Brother Clerk her treasure for which he is to keep a
                    seperate Record of all Receipts and Expenditures and is to pay out on the order of the
                    church." Those who filled the office of clerk over the years included Thomas McFarland,
                    John Ross, Moses B. Portlack, Alfred Martin, Alexander Carson, Benjamin M. Phillips, William C.
                    Adair, Jacob Cochran, John McNutt, John L. Thompson, George Riggs, Asa N. Parr, Nimrod Kemper, and
                    J. N. Kemper. William Cropper Adair served as clerk for the longest period. He joined the church in
                    December, 1843, and was chosen clerk the next month. He served until September, 1869, when his
                    request to be released from his duties was granted.
            Finally, Piner church elected deacons to fulfill the congregation's responsibility to watch
                    over and guide the conduct and spiritual life of its members. Because these functions defined the
                    main purpose of the church, the office of deacon assumed special importance, and those who served in
                         it began their duties only after ordination. After
                    participating in an ordination service for a deacon at Lick Creek church in April, 1834, Piner
                    debated whether to ordain a deacon "by prair and laying on of hands or other wise
                    …." They decided in June to ordain their deacon "by prair and giving
                    the rite hand of fellowship."
            Although during some periods the church chose a treasurer to manage its finances, often the duties of
                    the deacons were expanded to include handling the church's money. For example, in December,
                    1834, it was "Agreed that the deacons act as Treasurers." When the church decided
                    to raise funds in May, 1837, it "Instructed the Deacons that (after having defryed the
                    expenses of the Church) they may give of what is Left in the Treasury, to Traveling preachers and
                    other Church members who may need assistance as they may think proper." The financial
                    responsibilities fell another time on the deacons when in October, 1861, "the Church at the
                    request of their Treasurer Release him of that Office and have placed it on the Bro
                    Deacons."
            For a time during the later years of Piner church there was only one deacon and then for a three year
                    period, no deacon. Jacob Cochran, a deacon since 1849, died in 1866; and in March, 1871, John Monroe
                    asked to be released from the office. 
                        Monroe
                     had served as deacon from June, 1838, to April, 1853, when he asked to be released.
                    However, the church voted "to continue Brother Monro in the office of deacon." He
                    asked again in January, 1854, and his request was granted; but he was selected again in July, 1857,
                    and served until 1871. He acted as deacon for almost thirty years. Those who functioned as deacons
                    included Elijah Vice, Nehemiah Smith, John Ross, Alexander Carson, John Monroe, Abraham Henricks,
                    Benson Cornelius, Jacob Cochran, John Dilliner, Asa N. Parr, and J. W. Kemper.
            Of course, in addition to its business officers and deacons Piner church also called men to serve as
                        ministers.6 The first 
                  
                     6 The frontier Baptist congregations often "called
                            out" their preachers from among their own members. To any man who showed ability
                            the church voted the opportunity to "exercise his public gifts" by
                            encouraging him to preach within the bounds of the church. If his abilities warranted, the
                            church licensed him which gave him the opportunity to preach at large. See William Warren
                            Sweet, Religion on the American Frontier: The Baptists,
                            1783–1830 (
                                New York
                            , 1931), 46–48; Cady, Origin of Missionary Baptist
                                Church, 125–29.
               
                    
                    
                  NEHEMIAH SMITH, MODERATOR AND DEACON OF PINER CHURCH
                  
                  Courtesy author
                minister, Abraham Smock, was perhaps the most well known.7 In August,
                    1833, the church called him "to preach and administer for us one year." The next
                    year he was again asked to be the minister and it was "Agreed to hold an additional Meeting
                    on the fourth Sunday in Each Month at some place within the Bounds of the Church." After a
                    couple of years, however, Piner needed to choose another minister and in November, 1835, Ebenezer B.
                    Smith agreed to serve for a year. It was voted in July, 1836, "to contribute something to
                    support Br. E. B. Smith," and in December, 1837, the 
                  
                     7 In his History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1884), 581, B. R. Sulgrove says of Abraham Smock: "He organized the
                            first Baptist Church [Lick Creek] in the township [Perry] … in the spring of
                            1826. He was pastor of this church for a number of years, and also of the First Baptist
                            Church of 
                                Indianapolis
                             from December, 1826, to July, 1830, organizing more Baptist churches than any
                            other man in the county, and was a leading minister for many years. He was both eloquent and
                            impressive, and in his work zealous and fervent, but retired from the ministry long before
                            his day of work should have ceased." Smock also served as the first pastor of the
                            New Bethel Baptist church, organized in 1827, until 1832. During his pastorate the church
                            increased to about fifty members. See The Trail of a Century, Being a History
                                of the New Bethel Baptist Church and Community from 1827–1927
                            (Wanamaker, Ind., 1927), 20–21.
               
                     motion was made and carried "to raise … the
                    sum of twelve dollars against our next meeting."
            In March, 1839, the church "Agreed to Call Br. Nay of 
                        Johnson County
                    " and sent three men "to bear a letter unto … Rev. Nay
                    … and report At our next meeting." At the April meeting the men reported that
                    "Br Nay and Br Riggs agrees to tend on us one at a time monthly for an un difinite
                    time." A. B. Nay served the church until 1860, sharing the duties at various times with S.
                    Billings, Peterson K. Parr, and J. G. Jackson. In June, 1855, Nay told the church that it was
                    "out of his power at this time to attend this church," but he was pressed into
                    service until April, 1860, when the church received a letter from him stating that he could not
                    "comply with there Request at presant but will visit this church as often as he
                    can."
            In March, 1862, the church obtained the part time services of George Weaver. He was assisted in the
                    early years of his ministry by Jackson, B. Jones, and David Caudell, and after 1867 by Parr.
                    Weaver's tenure of eighteen years terminated in January, 1880, for some unexplained reason.
                    "By a motion and a second the Church Refuses to Call Brother Weaver to the pastorel Cair of
                    the Church." It was voted that the clerk notify him of the decision. Although the preceding
                    items of business were rescinded the following month, Weaver's name did not appear on the
                    church records again.
            Parr served Piner as part time minister beginning in March, 1860, "in conjunction with
                    Brother Nay." He was ordained at Bethel church in May, 1866, and the next year began a long
                    period of service to Piner, sharing his responsibilities until 1872 with Willie Tyler. Then Weaver
                    and Parr ministered together to the church until Weaver was dismissed. In April, 1881, Robert
                    Thompson was asked to assist in the work with Parr. They served together for eighteen years until
                    Parr died in 1899 after having ministered to the church thirty-two years. Thompson continued his
                    service for a few years, being aided from December, 1900, by T. J. Jones. In June of 1903 William
                    Richards was called to work with Jones, and Thompson was not mentioned in the records after 1903. In
                    July, 1905, J. F. George was called and acted as minister when the last minutes were recorded in
                    July, 1906.
            Besides identifying the men who served Piner church, the minutes reveal the format of the business
                    meeting. The August, 1834, meeting is typical of the form used in the early  years: "Met pursuant to an adjournment on the 2nd sat in
                    August A.D. 1834. after prayer and praise proceeded to business, the peace of the church Called for
                    and peace seemed to exist…. Opened a door for the reception Of members and Received
                    …." After itemizing the business the clerk signed his and the presiding
                    moderator's name. The term "Adjourned in order" came into use in 1835. By
                    1870 the format had changed: Piner opened its business by inviting "Breathren of Sister
                    Churches of our faith … to a Seat with us in council," and closed with
                    "Adjourned in Peace." The minutes also record some variation in the name of the
                    church. During the early years the minutes call it simply "the Church." After 1870
                    it was referred to as "The regular Baptist Church of Christ at the forks of little Buck
                    Creek," and occasionally as "the regular or predestinarian Baptist
                    church" or "the regular Old School or Primitive Baptist church."
            At the first business meeting in July, 1833, Nehemiah Smith gave a record book costing 81 1/4 cents,
                    the first of the two record books in which the minutes of the meetings were faithfully recorded. The
                    church also elected officers and took in five new members. It agreed "to send a letter to
                    the association knocking for admitance"8 and chose the men "to
                    bare the letter and act in behalf of the church if received." Finally, they voted to
                    commune at their next meeting. At the August meeting the assembly called Abraham Smock to minister
                    to them and elected Thomas McFarland as treasurer.
            The newborn church had a minister and officers but no church building. After Nehemiah Smith offered a
                    half acre of land at the corner of his property, the congregation voted in late December, 1833, for
                    "the male members to meete on the 2nd day of January next to work at the place for building
                    the meeting house and say what sort of a house we build." But for some reason, perhaps a
                    question about the site, construction was delayed. Building was not mentioned again until January,
                    1838, when it was "Agreed by motion & second to build a comfortable meeting
                    House." The next month Piner decided to locate the church on "the S.E. corner of
                    Br. N. Smith's land proposed by himself,"9 and it was voted to
                    build "a hewed log house 24 Feet by 32." In February, 1839, the church agreed
                    "to Recind the act of building 
                  
                     8 A copy of the 1833 minutes of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Association meeting at which Piner church was admitted is in the Indiana
                            Baptist Collection (
                                Hamilton
                             Memorial Library, 
                                Franklin
                             College, 
                                Franklin
                            , Indiana).
                  
                     9 Now the northwest corner of Southport and Combs roads, located in 
                                Franklin
                             Township, 
                                Marion County
                            , Indiana.
               
                     a log House & build a frame house instead there of 36
                    feet x 24." This grander plan was perhaps overly ambitious for the minutes of September,
                    1840, record "Agreed that we build a meeting house of hude logs 30 by 24 and that we
                    commence the bilding monday the 21 of Sept 1840." This must have been done, for the process
                    of building was discussed no further. By September, 1846, the church had decided to purchase a stove
                    "for the meeting house," and in January, 1847, they ordered the treasurer to
                    "furnish lights in place of some that is broke out of the windows." In March,
                    1848, they voted to "take up the case of seating her house." A committee was
                    appointed to "lay of [f] the house and number the seats and Report … the amount
                    of lumber and what sort and sise and all conserning the seats."
            The building constructed in the early 1840s lasted for more than two decades. During the 1860s Piner
                    church commenced an effort to build a new meeting house. In May, 1868, the church "agree to
                    build a house and have chosen … a commity to superintend and see if the church can bild a
                    good fraim house." At the June, 1868, meeting the minutes record: 
                        the church call on the committy chosen at our last meeting to Report whether they have done
                            what the church Request them to doo and the committy Report they have in part and the church
                            have agreed to build a house 40 by 36 and Request the committy to further bisness and each
                            start a subscription and see what they can do against our next meeting of busnes.
                     There was no more mention of the subscription fund or of building until October, 1871, when
                    "The Church agrees to borrow Ninty five Dollars of Br Dollins to pay on the meeting
                    house." A photograph of the church taken during its last years shows it to have been a
                    frame structure.
            Piner church always maintained ties with other Baptist churches.10 As early as
                    the July, 1833, business meeting it 
                  
                     10 Mentioned most frequently were the "sister
                            churches" Lick Creek, Little Buck Creek, Pleasant Run, and Bethel. Lick Creek
                            Baptist church was located in the northeast corner of Perry Township on Churchman 
                                Pike
                            . It was organized in 1826 and disbanded in 1866. The site is now part of Sarah
                            T. Bolton Park in 
                                Beech Grove
                            . Little Buck Creek church, also called Buck Creek Baptist church, was located
                            west of Piner church in Perry Township. It was organized in 1838, and eventually became the
                            Southport Baptist church. Pleasant Run church was situated in 
                                Warren
                             Township, organized in 1832 and disbanded in 1856. Bethel church is in Union
                            Township, 
                                Johnson County
                            , five miles south of 
                                Franklin
                             on the 
                                Franklin
                            -
                                Nineveh
                             Road. It was organized before 1833, with land given for a church in 1839. See
                            Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion County
                                , 581, 593, 590, 622; and Elba L. Branigin, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1913), 349–50.
               
                    
                    
                  PINER BAPTIST CHURCH
                  
                  Courtesy author
               
                     voted to ask for admission to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Association, and in July, 1834, the assembly voted to "write a Letter for
                    inspection at next meeting And send Deligates" to the association. Membership in an
                    association, an organization of autonomous Baptist churches, was voluntary, based on similarity of
                    beliefs and practices. The associations met for fellowship and mutual edification and exerted no
                    direct authority over the member churches. The letter carried by each church's delegates or
                    "messengers" to the yearly meeting of the association was a token of spiritual
                    harmony with the larger group of sister churches. The July and August minutes of Piner church for
                    almost every year recorded the preparation of such a letter and the selection of delegates to carry
                    it to the association meeting.11 Piner occasionally participated in other
                    association business. In July, 1862, the church appointed a committee to select "a suitable
                    site for the Association ground," and in August of 1881, 1882, and 1883, the church called
                    for the association to meet the following year.
            Participation in the association, however, did not imply relinquishing any of the church's
                    individuality. In August, 1834, at the first meeting of the association to which Piner sent
                    delegates, the men were instructed not to join the General Association, and "to indeavor to
                    alter the the [sic] time of Commenceing the Association from Saturday to
                    Friday." In August, 1839, the church vigorously asserted its position on missionary
                    endeavors in the letter sent to the association: "We as a Church disapprove of all
                    Benevalent institutions."12 Piner 
                  
                     11 The 
                                Wabash
                             Association of 1808 was the first to be organized in Indiana. The printed
                            minutes of the association meeting usually included the articles of faith subscribed to by
                            the participating churches, membership figures, delegate names, the topics discussed, and a
                            greeting in the form of an exhortation from the elected moderator. See Sweet, Religion on the American Frontier, 54–57, 417–563; Cady, Origin of Missionary Baptist Church, 143–46.
                  
                     12 Piner church was organized at a time when the antimission
                            controversy was exerting a divisive influence among frontier Baptist churches. Many felt
                            that benevolent institutions such as missions, church schools, and temperance and tract
                            societies were in opposition to the doctrine of predestination. They believed "that
                            God in his own time and way would bring his elect to repentance and redemption, and that
                            therefore any effort on the part of man to assist God in his redemptive work was not only
                            presumptuous, but wicked." Ibid., 67. There was also opposition
                            to missions on the grounds that the autonomy of the local church was challenged by the power
                            accorded a missionary society to send preachers where it wished and to raise money.
                            Missionary societies were also considered unscriptural. One champion of the cause of
                            anti-missions wrote "that God did not send Jonah to 
                                Nineveh
                             through a missionary society, nor was he ‘sent to a seminary of
                            learning to prepare him to preach to these Gentiles ….’" Ibid., 74.
               
                     also demonstrated its independence by switching its affiliation
                    with an association. In May, 1840, the decision was made to remove the church's membership
                    from the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Association and join the more conservative Conns Creek Association. Ten years later, in
                    November, 1850, Piner voted to "acquiess with the association in droping the correspondence
                    with the 
                        Marion
                     association."
            The church was always ready to help in the organization of a new church as they themselves had
                    received assistance. In February, 1836, for example, three men were sent to help
                    "Constitute a Church in 
                        Johnson County
                     …." In January, 1837, the church "Agreed to send helps to
                    meet with the brethren at the Little Sugar creek schoolhouse." Six months later they helped
                    organize a church on Big Sugar Creek, and in August, 1841, they "Received a request from a
                    number of Brethern at or neare Lickcreek. Requesting Helps to Constetutue a Church
                    …." In January, 1842, the church responded to a request "to aid in the
                    constitution of a church at little Buck Creek By a number of members who have With drawn from sd.
                    church." In March, 1855, they received a call for aid to organize a church from "a
                    few Brethren in 
                        Jasper county
                    , Illenois," and five men were appointed to meet the brethren "at
                    tarrehaut according to there Request …." Two men were sent in response to a
                    request from "Brethern in 
                        Tipton County
                     near Sharpsville" in July, 1864.
            The only time the church refused help was when a group of its own members wished to withdraw and form
                    a new church "at the School house near Bro Morrises." At a meeting in May, 1840,
                    the motion was made and seconded—but not passed—"that the Church
                    Grant the liberty of as many of her members … of going into a Constitution near Br Wm
                    Morrises …." The request "was not granted" because of
                    "its nearness to other Sister Churches." There were twelve letters of dismission
                    at the next meeting, including one from a deacon. Efforts made to effect the return of those who
                    left to form "Union church so cald" failed, and in November, 1840, the minutes
                    record: "We as a church dis-fellow ship the conduct of same Brethern and Sisters."
            Piner church often received requests for aid in ordination services. In April, 1834, the church
                    responded to a request from the Lick Creek church for help in ordaining a deacon by sending three
                    men. In August, 1838, it sent delegates  to the Little Buck
                    Creek church to aid in ordaining "Br Henry H. Hunter To the ministry."13 The church voted to assist in ordination services at Conns Creek church
                    (September, 1855), Hickory Creek church (December, 1856), Bethel church, 
                        Johnson County
                     (January, 1866), Antioch church (April, 1876, and June, 1897), 
                        Providence
                     church (October, 1876), South Stotts Creek church (July, 1878), and 
                        Shiloh
                     church (July, 1881).
            The church asked for help in an ordination service of one of its members, William Forsythe, on two
                    occasions—once in September, 1837, and again in March, 1838. In October, 1837, the
                    council, composed of delegates from Little Buck Creek, Lick Creek, Bethel, Pleasant Run, Concord,
                    and Pleasant View churches met. "The council called on the Candidate to tell his Christian
                    Experience and pass an examination." After listening to him and examining his views on
                    "the doctrine of the Gospel the council retired to consult." They
                    "reported they deem it inexpedient to ordain Bro Forsythe at the present." The
                    second council, with delegates from Little Buck Creek, Concord, Little Eagle, Bethel, and 
                        Indianapolis
                     churches met in May, 1838, but was also unable to ordain Forsythe.
            If a congregation could not settle a dispute, it sometimes called to "sister
                    churches" for counsel. Piner church both gave and received this kind of aid. In response to
                    "a friendly letter from a number of Brethern at Mount laben Boon county" in
                    November, 1843, it sent three men. A delegation sent to Mount Carmel church reported in the minutes
                    of January, 1889, in some detail. 
                        Report of the delegates appointed to sit in council with other delegates from other Churches
                            in 
                                Lebanon
                             and white water associations met December the 22. 1888 with the Mount Carmel
                            Church hancock County Ind. Organized by Choosing Brethren J.L. Thompson, Mod and D.H. Goble,
                            Clerk, after all the evidence relative to the division and duly 
                        
                           13 Sometimes a licensed preacher gathered a congregation, or a
                                    congregation could organize itself and call a licensed preacher to minister to them.
                                    On such occasions a council of churches met and examined the candidate's
                                    views and character and, finding him satisfactory, ordained him. The typical
                                    preacher lived and worked among his people. A farmer for five or six days a week, he
                                    preached on Sundays and other days of special services. He received no pay other
                                    than small gifts and services that his congregation might bestow. He was limited in
                                    education, partly due to the lack of opportunity for study, but also because the
                                    churches were opposed to an educated, paid ministry. See Cady, Origin
                                        of Missionary Baptist Church, 25–27; Sweet, Religion on the American Frontier, 46–47,
                                72–73.
                     
                             Considering everything connected with it the Council by
                            Motion and second declared by a unanimous vote the Party represented by Elder John Weaver
                            was Mount Carmel Church of Primitive Baptist.
                        James L. Thompson.
                        Amos Morris.
                        James A. Merriman.
                    
            
            Piner church asked for aid in council in May, 1835. Several months earlier one of Piner's
                    members, William Forsythe, was accused by fellow church member, Nimrod Kemper, of having
                    "made bunched and sold an unreasonable quantity of short shingles which were thought to be
                    of no use in Consequence of their being too short." After hearing all the evidence at a
                    special meeting in March and considering the written testimony of a witness, the church decided that
                    Forsythe "did wrong" and voted to exclude him. Some question must have remained,
                    for in May the church again took up the case "in order to rescind the act of his
                    exclusion," and a meeting was set for the third Friday of June. Lick Creek, Little Buck
                    Creek, Bethel, and Pleasant Run churches were asked to help in council. (At that May meeting Nimrod
                    Kemper was granted a letter of dismission, and at the June meeting preceding the special meeting
                    there were nine letters of dismission, seven of them Kemper by name.) On the appointed day the
                    church met with ten men from the invited churches. The council organized by appointing a moderator
                    and clerk. "By motion and second the Council agreed to sing the 351 Hymn of
                    Miller's Collection 13th Edition after which the moderator addressed The thrown of Grace.
                    After hearing all the testimony on both sides the Counsel agree that the Church did right in
                    Excluding brother Forsythe but upon his acknowledgment, we restore him to fellowship."
            The regulation of behavior—as in Forsythe's case—was one of the prime
                    concerns of Piner church. Although the church condemned all ungodly and sinful behavior, it most
                    frequently acted against such offenses as intoxication, dancing, adultery, and lax attendance at
                    worship services. In such cases the church followed the third rule of decorum and insisted that
                    "every publick offender must make publick acknowledgement or suffer the pain of
                    excomunication by the church." Frequently members brought charges against themselves. In
                    August, 1838, for example, "Br Campbell Power informed the Church that he has recently done
                    wrong and now feels  that it is his duty to make public
                    acknowledgment. And is sorrow for that which he has done and solisits forgivness of the church
                    hopeing that God has for given him." Accordingly, the church "Agreed by motion and
                    second to bear with br power." Power apparently continued his conduct for in September,
                    1838, when "The peace of the Church [was] called for," "the Church was
                    informed that Brother Campbell Power had been Guilty of un Christian conduct viz the sin of
                    intoxication." Taking up his case, "by voice of the church they exclude
                    him."
            In May, 1842, "Brother Stapp laide in a charge Against Him Self that he had ben oute of
                    temper which he beleves unbecoming a christian and the church Agreed to forgive him." In
                    January, 1845, Stapp "Exibited a charge against himself that he had bin gilty of the sin of
                    intoxication where upon he gave satisfaction." But in March of the next year a charge was
                    brought "against Brother J. Stap for fiting and intocseation which charge is Referd by
                    citing the Brother to attend her next meeting," and by sending a committee to visit him. He
                    was excluded at the April, 1846, meeting.
            The church also watched vigilantly over the vows of marriage. For example, in March, 1846,
                    "the church Exibeted a charge against Brother Nathaniel Vice for Miss conduct for that of
                    puting away his Wife unlawfully and Ex the Brother on the same by proof." In November,
                    1849, the church determined that "Nathaniel and Levina Smith has bin guilty of unchrestian
                    conduct in that of harboring another mans lawfull weded wife and suffering another man that has a
                    lawful wife to visit his house and failing Repeated promises of stoping him from comeing to his
                    house …." Nevertheless, when "Brother Nathaniel Smith maid
                    sattisfactorly acknowledgement … he was Restored in full fellowship and Sister Levina
                    Smith maid know acknowledgement so she is know more of us."
            Although the male members of the church were required to attend the meetings unless
                    "providentially hindered," many apparently did not and were reprimanded or
                    expelled. In July, 1848, "the church Exibeted a charge against Brother A Martin for faling
                    to attend her stated metings and sends Brother Phillips to site the Brother to her next meting of
                    bisness." Martin must have been unwilling to mend his ways for in October, 1848, the church
                    voted "where as Brother  Martin has bin a covinent
                    Braker in absenting him self for the space of one year therfore he is no more of us." In
                    June, 1852, "the church Exibet a charge against Brother Nathan Smith for absenting himself
                    from the church and for fiting …." A church member was sent to visit him and to
                    "Request him to attend our Next church meting." The next month Piner decided that
                    "after and investigation of the matter the charges was dismissed and the Brother continued
                    in the church," but in March, 1853, Smith asked for a letter of dismission which was
                    granted. In December, 1852, "the church Exibeted a charge a gainst Brother Thomas Carson
                    for absenting him self from the church …." One of the deacons was sent to
                    request him to attend the "next meting of bisness." In January, 1853, Carson
                    apparently responded to the church's action, for the minutes recorded that "after
                    and investigation the Brother making satisfactory acknowledgement he is continued in the
                    church."
            Although strict attendance rules were not applied to women, they equally merited the concern of the
                    church. In March, 1847, "the church Exibeted a charg against Sister Nancy Mccall for
                    intoxication and un Christian language and sends Brother and sister 
                        Monroe
                     to site the sister to our next of bisness." At the next meeting
                    "Sister Mccall came farward and maid acknowlegments to the church and the church Received
                    her acknowledgment and continue the the [sic] sister in the church." But
                    in July, 1848, "the church Exibeted a charg against Sister Mccall for unchristian conduct
                    such as profain language and Excluded her on the charge."
            The only obvious cases of doctrinal disagreement with the church concerned three women,
                    "Sister Martin, Sister Vise and Sister Caterson." A committee was sent in May,
                    1854, to see why they had not been attending the meetings. At the June, 1854, meeting only the
                    member sent to visit Sister Vice was ready to report. He said "he viseted sister vise and
                    she Requested to be Excluded that she did not beleave as we did. the Report was Received and
                    … the church by her vote say sister vise is know more of us." The brother sent
                    to visit Sister Catterson reported in September that he had visited her and "she did not
                    make intire satisfaction." Another church member was appointed to see her "and
                    obtain intire satisfaction." Catterson did not provide this interrogator "intire
                    satisfaction" either. In October, 1854, the  church was
                    told that Catterson had said she "did not beleave in the doctrin of Election and
                    predestination and the voat of the church being taken she says she is no more of us." Not
                    until January, 1855, did the church settle Sister Martin's case. At that meeting
                    "she was Requested to speak for her self when she said she was hurt at the church for
                    excluding her husband and she wanted a letter that she might join some other church not of our faith
                    and beleaf so Mr Martin might instruct her and after due investigation the church with drew the
                    right hand of fellowship.
            Besides its condemnation of ungodly behavior by individual members, Piner church also attempted to
                    settle disputes that arose between church members. In accord with its seventh rule of decorum the
                    congregation expected members to "carefully avoid going to law with each other on any
                    pretence whatever." Rather, as the third rule instructed, "in all cases of
                    tresspass or private grevance between individuals" members ought to apply "the
                    rule laid down by our saveior in the 18th chapter of Matthew …."14
            
            Several incidents surrounding the figure of William Forsythe afford examples of just how the church
                    settled minor disputes between members by application of its rules. One of the original members of
                    the church, Forsythe was apparently a sincere Christian, but one who received Piner's
                    chastisement as well as approval. In March, 1835, for example, he "arose and acknowledged
                    that he had done wrong by his having talked so as to interrupt the Church at Little Buck Creek when
                    she was Communing." Upon confession of error the church forgave him the offence. (It was
                    later in that same meeting that Forsythe was accused by a fellow church member of making short
                    shingles.) Although in March, 1837, he was recognized by Piner to be "a member who
                    exercised a publick gift," his efforts to be ordained had been twice
                    thwarted—the second time because of "an objection from three members"
                    of the church. No doubt this ranked Forsythe, but he apparently tried to practice the
                    church's rules for keeping peace. In June, 1838, he "addrest the Church 
                  
                     14
                            Matthew 18:15–17 (KJV): "Moreover if thy brother shall
                            trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone … if
                            he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or
                            three witnesses every word may be established. And if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it
                            unto the church: but if he neglect to hear the church, let him be unto thee as an heathen
                            man and a publican."
               
                     similar to the following manner, that it appears like there are
                    difficulties and hardness among us, and his sincear wish and desire is for us to lay all hardness
                    and difficulty aside and come to gether in love after which those who haveing Heretofore fel any
                    kind of grievence or hardness to wards any brother or sister of this Church."
                    Forsythe's speech must have impressed the congregation for "after consultation
                    they all profest to lay aside all hardness and give the the [sic] right hand of
                    fellowship mannifesting a clocer walk with God."
            Although elected moderator in January, 1838, and again in December, 1838, Forsythe continued to
                    experience troubles with the church. In January, 1839, he apparently fell into some disagreement
                    with another member, and he and his wife were granted letters of dismission. Then in a meeting three
                    months later "Br Forsythe and Br Thomas Smith senior Acknowledged the for giveness of Each
                    other of a difficultity formly Existing between the Two brethern." At that same meeting the
                    church agreed to call in Forsythe's letter "and give a new one in stead there
                    of."
            An entry in the record book for August, 1843, indicates that Forsythe again had caused controversy:
                    "Bro McFarland motioned that the church Take up the objections as in tended against Bro
                    Forsithe which the church said she woud not." Whatever the problem it was resolved, for the
                    next month the minutes related that "Where as there was a dificulty and hardness Existin
                    Betwene the Church and Bro McFarland that dificulty is reconsild." In May, 1853,
                    "Brother Foresithe came forward and Request the church to forgive him for all past offences
                    and the church by her vote says she for gives him." At the same time the church voted
                    "to in vite Brother Foresithe to preach to morrow."
            In 1855 a dispute arose between two of Piner's members which the church was unable to settle
                    without the aid of a council of "sister churches." At the July, 1855, meeting
                    "Brother Heslet Excibet a charge against Brother Phillips for telling a thing that was not
                    so …." A member of long standing, having joined the church in 1839, Phillips had
                    served as moderator, clerk, and trustee. Although elected a deacon in January, 1854, Jacob Heslet
                    was a newcomer who had belonged to the church only since 1853. The church postponed a decision,
                    requesting "the Brethren to meet and  try to settle
                    between them selves." At the September meeting, however, "Brother B M Phillips
                    Exibet a charge against Brother Heslet for accusing him of knowingly telling a falls hood and if
                    proved himself clear of the same he would not beleave it and after and investigation the church said
                    Brother Heslet is no more of us." In October the dispute continued to occupy the
                    church's attention. Although a motion and second were made for the church to
                    "Reconsider her act of last meting," the church refused to do so. Phillips was
                    serving as moderator at that time. In March, 1856, at the business meeting on Saturday preceding the
                    Sunday on which church was held, pro-Heslet members urged the church to reconsider Heslet's
                    exclusion, but the church again voted against doing so. However, Heslet's friends
                    prevailed, and "On Sunday following the church agree to have a call meting for the purpose
                    of calling a council in Regard to the Exclusion of Mr Heslet and have apointed the fourth Saturday
                    in March 1856 for that purpos."
            At that meeting on March 22, 1856, the church, after debating the propriety of calling a council to
                    reconsider the previous September's decision, agreed to "call on cons creek,
                    Bethel South, Stots Creek, mount Gilead, Eagle creek for helps in council to take the acts of the
                    church as they stand Recorded on her book and see if the church have Erred and if the church have
                    Erred to point out where in and leave the matter for the further consideration of the
                    church." Heslet himself was the representative sent to Bethel, Conns Creek, and South
                    Stotts Creek churches. The eleven representatives from the invited churches met in May and asked the
                    aid of three of the Piner church members present. After "Eliciting all the evidence with
                    Regard to the Exclusion of Jacob Heslet which thing appears is to be a grieveince to a portion of
                    said church" the council decided that "the charge prefered against said Heslet by
                    Brother Phillops was of a public Nature consequently the church could not have did otherwise from
                    what she did." At the June meeting, 1856, "Brother Jacob Heslet Came forward and
                    maid full Satisfactoriel acknowledgement to Brother Phillips and the church and is Restored to
                    fellowship." In February, 1857, Jacob Heslet asked for and received a letter of dismission
                    for himself and his wife.
            The minutes of the later years of the church record fewer discords among the members. In October,
                    1877, "Br Asa  N Parr brings A charge against Br Joseph
                    Henricks with treating the Church with contempt in abrupt absenting himself from the church in time
                    of worship which charge was sustained." In November the church voted to "withdraw
                    the hand of ffellowship" for the cause given. In February, 1879, Jane Henricks,
                    Joseph's wife, had some disagreement with Piner which she outlined in a letter to be read
                    to the church. After listening to the letter the assembly voted "to sende a Commitee to see
                    Sister Jane henricks in order to make a reconciliation." In March the committee reported
                    that Jane Henricks "still adhers to the substance of her letter to the Church. But is
                    Willing and Concents to atende the Sesions of the Church and try to Reconcile the diference betwen
                    her and the Brethren mentioned in the letter." In May, 1879, after again considering the
                    matter, the church decided that because of her "refusing to obey the mandats of the Church
                    the right hand feloshipe Was With Drawn from sister Jane henricks."
            The vigor of Piner church during the various periods of its history is indicated in the recording of
                    its minutes and in the available membership lists. Those wishing to become members of the church
                    came forward and were accepted "by letter," "by relation,"
                    "by experience," or "by experience and baptism."15 In January, 1870, one candidate was received for baptism when he "came forward
                    and gave A reason of his hope in Christe by A relation of his exersise of mind." Although
                    the fifth rule of decorum indicated the reception of members was to be by
                    "unanimity," in November, 1839, it was "Agreed that the Church at any of
                    her meetings open a door for the reception of member by two thirds of the Church being presant by
                    the moderator Being presant and opening the door."
            After the confidence and growing membership of the first few years, the church fell into troubled
                    times. In 1838 Nancy Vice and Katharine Coverdill were lost to the Methodist church.16 One member was excluded for intoxication and 
                  
                     15 No service of baptism is mentioned in the church records, but such
                            services were held during the warm months at a special place along Little Buck Creek not far
                            from the church. Author's interview with Ruth McMillin, January 18, 1974.
                  
                     16 Loss of members to other denominations continued throughout the
                            church's history, the last such entry being recorded in February, 1896:
                            "the refference concerning Brother James Carney and Sister Carney his Wife taken up
                            and the hand of fellowship with drawn from them for uniting with another Church of different
                            faith and order."
               
                     ten letters of dismission granted, all while only three new
                    members joined the church. There was dissension over the ordination of William Forsythe. The
                    trustees had been slow to present a deed to the church property and when presented, it proved
                    unsatisfactory. Nevertheless, Piner weathered these difficulties. In spite of four more letters of
                    dismission (all charter members) in January, 1839, and a "Motion and second for the Church
                    Mutually to desolve" the church remained intact and voted "to still unite to
                    geather as a Church And not desolve." In January the deed to the church property was
                    finally accepted. During the next two months, despite a loss of two additional members, the church
                    voted to build a frame building. In April it was decided to have an extra meeting each month, and
                    "on the Sabbath after her day of bisness," the church received Benjamin M. and
                    Polly Phillips, who proved to be faithful members and marked the beginning of a rise in membership
                    and strength.
            Again in the early 1860s the church suffered bad times, if one can judge by the many entries in the
                    minutes that consist merely of the date and a declaration of "no business." Some
                    entries note simply "No Quorum today" or "no minute was made on the
                    account of the none attendance of the Brethern," or "no Church Buisness done to
                    day for want of members." After the Civil War, however, the church seemed to gather new
                    strength. With Parr as one of its ministers, it entered into a period of relative prosperity. The
                    members built a new frame church, frequently gave their aid in council to sister churches, and
                    participated in the community by allowing the church building to be used for several years in the
                    1870s for a singing class.
            The first record book contains several membership lists in its back pages. The first list is undated,
                    but a check through the minutes indicates the last name (Susan Stapp) was added in May, 1837. The
                    list includes sixty-three names, with the notation added after twenty-four of them
                    "Dismissed by letter." One person had "Died," and one had been
                    "Excluded." The next list, also undated, but probably drafted in 1842, has
                    sixty-seven names, thirty-three of which were on the previous list. Of the sixty-seven names,
                    thirty-two were subsequently marked "Dismist," and two
                    "Excluded." Of those marked "Dismist," nineteen had been on the
                    first membership list.
            
            The third list grew to seventy-three names, and since the fourth list is dated March, 1855, it can be
                    safely assumed it covered the years from 1842 to 1855. It is the longest list and marks the
                    strongest period in the history of Piner church. The fourth list has fifty-two names, the last four
                    those of members who joined in April, 1867. By that time fifteen of the members were marked
                    "Dismissed by letter," nine were "dead," and two
                    "Excluded." Twenty-six names began the fifth and last list in the record book,
                    which is dated March 24, 1867. Only three names appear to have been added before the keeping of
                    membership records was apparently abandoned. Abraham Henricks was the only name on the fifth list
                    which had been on the first list. Four names—John Monroe, Sally Monroe, Polly Phillips,
                    and William Smith—had been on the second list.
            A list of members made from the minutes themselves, indicating new members and dismissions from 1869
                    to 1906, shows forty-one names were added, eleven removed by letter, two by exclusion, and nine by
                    death. Of the members who joined in that thirty-seven year period, twenty-eight were still nominally
                    on the roll in 1906. George Crouch, who joined in February, 1894, was the last new member.
            Piner church always remained comparatively small. In part, no doubt, this occurred because it
                    demanded that its members adhere to a firm, if not rigid, set of beliefs and practices. As noted
                    earlier, Piner also shunned missionary and charity efforts, even to increase its own membership. As
                    a result, while Piner declined in numbers in the late 1800s, the several more progressive Baptist
                    churches of the community, which supported Sunday schools, missionary endeavors, and educational
                    institutions, continued to grow.
            The final business meeting of Piner church was held on July 14, 1906. There was no business beyond
                    the formalities of inviting "Brethren of our faith and order … to seats in
                    council," of calling for and finding "the peace and fellowship of the
                    Church," and opening "the Doore of the Church … for the reception of
                    members." The minutes conclude "No other business adjourned in peace" and
                    were signed by "Brother Morris Mod" and "J.N. Kemper. C.C."
            The record book ended with the following entry, probably written in 1924: 
                    
                        Feb. 26.
                        We the three remaining members of Forks of Little Buck Creek Church (known as Piner Baptist
                            Church) do hereby agree to sell Church building and contents to Mr. Fred L. Shafer for the
                            sum of ($150.00) one hundred and fifty dollars.
                        The money obtained for sale of building and contents to be placed in a fund to be used in the
                            upkeep of grounds and the construction of a new fence the custodians of this fund to be the
                            aforesaid remaining members.
                     The three members were Salina Crouch, who had joined the church in 1875, her son George,
                    who joined in 1894, and Belle Grove McMillin, who became a member in 1893.17
            
            The building stood unused for many years during the interval between the dissolution of the church
                    and the final disposition of the building. One resident of the community remembers how she and her
                    friends attending the nearby Bunker Hill school sometimes played during recess
                    in the empty church.18 By 1924, when the three remaining members decided to sell
                    the building, it had fallen into hopeless disrepair and had been vandalized.19
                    The remaining pews were sold or given away and the structure dismantled, the lumber being used to
                    build a house in the neighborhood.
            In 1946, "Following a mass weed-cutting operation in the old ‘Piner’
                    Graveyard … many descendants of the pioneers buried there held a basket dinner at the
                    home of John Dilliner … and organized an informal association to help care for the old
                        cemetery."20 The cemetery association met for several years,
                    cutting the grass, trimming the trees, and cleaning the grounds. A letter dated September 20, 1949,
                    indicated a neighboring farmer had been accused of having moved a fence to include part of the
                    church property and of having made "about a dozen" unauthorized burials in the
                    cemetery, "probably under a pauper burial contract with the county."21 In 1967 appointed trustees conveyed the deed for the land to the Brookside Primitive
                    Baptist church for the purpose of 
                  
                     17 Author's interview with Ruth McMillin, January 18, 1974.
                            It is through the care of the sons and daughters of Belle Grove McMillin, the last living
                            member of the church, that the church record books have been preserved.
                  
                     18 Author's interview with Ethel Wendling, April 21, 1973.
                  
                     19 Author's interview with Ruth McMillin, March 30, 1973.
                  
                     20 Records of Cemetery Association, in possession of Mrs. Nile E.
                            Weber, Southport Road, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                            21
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     rebuilding a church on the site. Estimates of construction
                    expenses discouraged the plan, however.22
            
            Piner church survives only in the memories of a decreasing number of community residents. The open
                    area at the east end of the cemetery is the only indication there was ever a meeting house on the
                    site. The cemetery, surrounded now by suburban homes, has assumed the identity of
                    "Piner." It is a landmark, a reminder to all that within those bounds stood one of
                    the area's earliest churches.
            The record books of Piner Baptist church are a journal of a significant community institution written
                    by the people who shaped it month by month. The church, in return, gave meaning to their lives.
                    Their mode of life was different from that of today, but their discouragements and pleasures, while
                    differing perhaps in detail, were much like those the present generation experiences. Those
                    nineteenth century men and women surely could not have imagined twentieth century life, but the
                    records of Piner church preserve today a fragment of their era.
            
               
                  22 Author's interview with Ruth McMillin, January 18,
                    1974.
            
         
         
         
            
               
                        Providence
                     in the Popular Mind of Pre-Civil War America
            Lewis O. Saum∗
            
            "The will of God," Spinoza contended, "is the refuge of the
                        ignorant."1 Some might feel that the matter should be left at that,
                    but in fact the providential belief has been analyzed almost relentlessly by scholars attempting to
                    understand the intellectual bases of our ancestors' actions. The present essay examines the
                    dominant historical interpretations of antebellum providentalism. Then, more importantly, it
                    contrasts those interpretations with the sense of 
                        Providence
                     revealed in the writings, not of pre-Civil War America's intellectual
                    formulators of one kind or another, but in the writings of people in comparatively humble
                    circumstances. There were, of course, some variations in the ways that these less notable men and
                    women expressed their providential conceptions, but consistently the providential notions of common
                    men and women seriously question such current historical wisdom as John W. Ward's
                    contention that the belief in 
                        Providence
                     left each citizen "bathed in a glorious optimism."2 Assuredly, that perception of 
                        Providence
                     did not bathe Hawthorne and Melville in glorious optimism; and it seems not to have so
                    immersed those obscure contemporaries for whom that brooding pair spoke with much greater frequency
                    than the conventional view would allow.
            In humble thought of that era no theme was more pervasive, no theme philosophically more fundamental,
                    than the 
                  
                     ∗ Lewis O. Saum is associate professor of history at the
                            University of 
                                Washington
                            . He wishes to acknowledge the assistance of a research grant from the National
                            Endowment for the Humanities.
                  
                     1 Quoted in George Boas, Vox Populi: Essays in the
                                History of an Idea (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1969), 215.
                  
                     2 John W. Ward, Andrew Jackson: Symbol for an Age (
                                New York
                            , 1955), 213.
               
                     providential view. With the exception of those who might
                    suppose that the transcendental emphasis on the agency of self had indeed extended beyond Concord,
                    most would feel no surprise at such a contention. Still, that providential persuasion cannot be
                    taken for granted or dismissed as the "refuge of the ignorant." It comprised the
                    very warp and woof of the pre-Civil War world view; its intricacies and its implications deserve
                    careful scrutiny. And unlike those who partook of that theonomous outlook and tended to consider it
                    an imponderable and unanalyzable schema, the modern mind readily ponders and analyzes. With
                    Wordsworth in mind, the providential view having been murdered, scholars are now free to dissect.
                    For Ishmael, the whaling voyage aboard the Pequod "formed part of the
                    grand programme of 
                        Providence
                     that was drawn up a long time ago."3 In the twentieth
                    century many intriguing things would be said about that renowned cruise, few of them providential.
            Standard scholarly treatments of the providential view as it appeared in elevated sources of that
                    period provide almost a definition by contrast of the spirit that filled the writings of the lower
                    orders. Such treatments deriving from the utterances of public figures of one kind or another seem
                    to convey three general and interrelated motifs. First, modern scholars tend to view the
                    providential persuasion of our ancestors as something pertaining to society, to nation. It appears
                    essentially as a philosophy of history. In turn, that providential philosophy of history appears
                    colored by optimism, intent upon the future, and prone to be confused with the notion of progress.
                    As a rambunctious intensification of the optimistic, futuristic, and progressive qualities, it seems
                    to have had a propensity for becoming palpable, conspicuous, and in 1846 nearly exhibitionist. To a
                    chosen nation destined for great things, according to modern reading of nineteenth century
                    illusions, God vouchsafed his intentions. With their destiny made manifest, an assertive and acquisi
                    people combined muscular deed with exculpatory word.
            Historians understandably often keep their attention large themes and
                    constructs—societies, cultures, nations, pires. The macroprovidential workings
                    sensed by our cestors readily commend themselves to the historians w
                    
                  
                     3 Herman Melville, Moby-Dick; or, the Whale in The Works of man Melville (16 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1963), VII, 5.
               
                     the microprovidential ones seem to merit and generally receive
                    oblivion. For example, Kenneth B. Murdock described the view held among seventeenth century Puritans
                    as follows: "In the simplest terms it held that every event was manipulated by God. A man
                    might make a fortune, a city might burn, someone might be saved from death, or a prince might
                    fall—in each case God brought about the event." Matters of definition having
                    been settled. Murdock focused upon the larger, "historical" aspects of
                    God's manipulation.4 Thus, when modern scholars treat that quaint
                    conceit in the pre-Civil War period, they focus on its purported national and historical
                    implications. In one of the fullest explicit descriptions of providential outlook Robert P. Hay
                    presented early Americans as facing the task of "creating a usable past." Having
                    labored for discernment in historical understanding they brought forth, as have various other
                    societies, "the legend of providential protection for the nation."5
            
            As social theory and philosophy of history, the providential view not only explained the past but
                    also rationalized the present and foretold the future. Indeed, it seems to have been more
                    comfortable in the latter dimensions than in the former. And when it bespoke the future it did so,
                    most modern scholars contend, in tones of trumpeting certitude. In Andrew Jackson:
                        Symbol for an Age John W. Ward drew an immensely influential picture of Young
                    America's confidence. That society, Ward argued, needed a faith equal to its
                    "gigantic task," and such faith it found. "In its optimism it firmly
                    believed that God had foreordained its success and it therefore saw God's hand in the most
                    unlikely places."6 Sound doctrine would pronounce no place
                    "unlikely." But sound doctrine, one gathers, had an inherent susceptibility to
                    being eroded, to being prostituted, and to being unceremoniously replaced by notions of secular
                    progress.
            At the end of a work titled Unquiet Eagle Fred Somkin presented George Bancroft
                    stilling pre-Civil War American 
                  
                     4 Kenneth B. Murdock, "William Hubbard and the Providential
                            Interpretation of History," Proceedings of the American Antiquarian
                                Society, LII (1942), 17. See also Jacob Viner, The Role of 
                                    Providence
                                 in the Social Order: An Essay in Intellectual History (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1972), 5.
                  
                     5 Robert P. Hay, "
                                Providence
                             and the American Past," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            LXV (June, 1969), 79, 100. See also Paul Nagel, This Sacred Trust: American
                                Nationality, 1798–1898 (
                                New York
                            , 1971), 53.
                  
                     6 Ward, Andrew Jackson, 110.
               
                     worries by pronouncing, as Somkin put it, "the
                    triumphant upward trend of history." And Bancroft was able to do so, according to Somkin,
                    by turning Jonathan Edwards' "providentialism into a secular doctrine of
                        progressivism."7 In his study of the idea of progress Arthur Ekirch
                    tells of an "unquestioned reliance on the progressive purposes of a divine 
                        Providence
                    ." Indeed, for Americans progress was both "a law of history and the
                    will of a benign 
                        Providence
                    ."8 Not surprisingly, when "benign 
                        Providence
                    " became fugitive and circumspect, the progressive thrust found theoretical
                    sustenance under other auspices. Martin Marty, himself a student of religion, put it simply:
                    "From 
                        Providence
                     to Progress." Given the new dispensations of the late nineteenth century, the
                    hitherto operative "divine impetus" to American history seemed inadequate to the
                    point of exhaustion. But the shift to a new energy source was simplicity itself, indeed hardly more
                    than semantic; where the word "
                        Providence
                    " had been employed in an almost "habitual" way,
                    "thoughtful people were replacing it and speaking of ‘Progress.’
                        "9
            
            The modern, naturalist temper is quick to discern in and distill from expressions of the providential
                    view a form of dissembling. J. B. Bury suggested an indignant cleaning of historical skirts when he
                    remarked that historians "for the most part desisted from invoking the naive conception of
                    a god in history to explain historical movements."10 Too frequently,
                    transcendent laws and agents of change and progress, the intimation seems to be, invite human
                    intervention. What God has intended sometimes becomes subject to hamhanded and myopic mundane
                    facilitation. 
                        Providence
                    , as frequently presented, came to be part and parcel of aggressive national policy.
                    Having extended His favor and blessing, the Almighty seemingly found it awkward or illogical to
                    restrain that society which, for His benefactions, was drifting toward international antinomianism.
                    Thus Ward's index entry for "Manifest Destiny" ends with "see also
                    
                        Providence
                    ." An earnest 
                  
                     7 Fred Somkin, Unquiet Eagle: Memory and Desire in the
                                Idea of American Freedom, 1815–1860 (
                                Ithaca
                            , N. Y., 1967), 205.
                  
                     8 Arthur Alphonse Ekirch, Jr., The Idea of Progress in
                                America, 1815–1860 (
                                New York
                            , 1951), 166, 267.
                  
                     9 Martin E. Marty, Righteous Empire: The Protestant
                                Experience in America (
                                New York
                            , 1970), 188.
                  
                     10 Quoted in Robert W. McLaughlin, The Spiritual Element
                                in History (
                                New York
                            , 1926), 226.
               
                     of that connection, if not that identification, reads as
                    follows: "Since Andrew Jackson, as God's right-hand man, represents the
                    rationalization of American imperialism, his own course of action might well stand for the unsavory
                    reality that underlay the idealistic protestations of the 
                        United States
                     as it expanded westward."11 "The
                    expansionist," as Alfred K. Weinberg wrote in Manifest Destiny,
                    "may have had the very devil in his blood, but he could not take or enjoy his land without
                    saying grace to a manifest destiny identified with the will of God."12
            
            If the foregoing accurately depicts 
                        Providence
                     as it is now viewed in historical literature, that 
                        Providence
                     bears a very limited relation to the informing precept of the common man. In the
                    writings of humble America the providential emphasis falls not on the national and the historical
                    but on the personal and the immediate; not so much on the optimistic and the futuristic as on the
                    pessimistic and the past; and hardly at all on the chest thumping manifest destiny with its
                    assertive and exculpatory noises but rather upon an unknown destiny approached prayerfully and
                    resignedly.
            Certain sources and kinds of sources have been employed too liberally in formulating that standard
                    providential construction supposedly accepted by so many Americans. Had there been, for example, no
                    John L. O'Sullivan to coin the term "manifest destiny," it might have
                    been necessary for a later generation to create him. His 
                  
                            United States
                         Magazine and Democratic Review (Democratic Review) has done more than ample
                    and yeoman service in the cause of muscular providentialism. It appeared for some twenty years,
                    during several of which it did little more than totter; yet Weinberg's Manifest Destiny, a book giving thematic coverage from independence to the 1930s, has more
                    index page references to it than to any other periodical or newspaper, more than doubling, for
                    example, those for North American Review. The politico-literary clique at Democratic Review—brilliantly characterized in their isolation by Perry
                    Miller—should not be confused in mood with America at large.13
            
            
               
                  11 Ward, Andrew Jackson, 148.
               
                  12 Alfred K. Weinberg, Manifest Destiny: A Study of
                            Nationalist Expansionism in American History (
                            Baltimore
                        , 1935), 482.
               
                  13 Perry Miller, The Raven and the Whale: The War of Words
                            and Wits in the Era of Poe and Melville (
                            New York
                        , 1956), 109.
            
            
            As O'Sullivan and the Democratic Review have been irresistibly attractive,
                    so have the sentiments uttered and recorded on certain occasions and celebrations. Several years
                    after writing his Jackson book, Ward described it as "an attempt to get at the public
                    mind," and to do so "through a study of the themes implicit in the public
                    celebration" of certain events.14 This has led ineluctably to study of
                    eulogies and Fourth of July orations. To be sure, both forms have much to commend them; but, as with
                    the Democratic Review, caution is in order. These occasions were tailor made
                    settings for the mystical conjunction of the immediate, the mundane, or the lifeless clay with the
                    cosmic forces, with the transcendent, with God. God, whether He would or no, found Himself front and
                    center extending a hand to Andrew Jackson or to whomever. Fourth of July orators, it should be kept
                    in mind, had obligations transcending the sober speaking of sound doctrine. It fell their lot
                    resoundingly to sweep the heavens and eternity for tropes and metaphors befitting the heroism of the
                    nation's past, the grandeur of the present, and the sublimity just around the corner in the
                    future. Given the setting, it would be unthinkable that for at least one day of the year 
                        Providence
                     would hesitate to make common cause with the 
                        United States
                     of America.
            The common man, when his imagination was not ravished by Fourth of July orators, exercized much
                    caution in commandeering God's devices. To be sure, some instances of the standard national
                    version of the providential motif can be found; but for various reasons they fail to match what has
                    been presented in the scholarly literature. First, they are very rare. In addition, the few
                    instances that can be found derive a bit too much from sources in the upper and suspect echelons of
                    commonness. Very likely, men with the amiable awareness of having some control of their own destiny
                    could more readily wax confident about God's intentions. The humble man's intimate
                    acquaintance with hardship and frustration probably did much to militate against overly sanguine
                    views. 
                        New York City
                     businessman Andrew Lester voted the Whig ticket for mayor and aldermen in April of
                    1843. The next day he mused about the Whig defeat, and he made a remark which, shorn of its somber
                    context, seems appropriately and 
                  
                     14 John W. Ward, Red, White, and Blue: Men, Books, and
                                Ideas in American Culture (
                                New York
                            , 1969), 52–53.
               
                     smugly providential. "All [is] right," he
                    concluded, "for he that sitteth on high is ruler & all will be well."15 Small town 
                        Tennessee
                     businessman William Williams did not share Lester's politics, but he did share
                    the apparently happy thought that God might shield America from disasters. He quieted his 1834
                    agonizing over the possible recharter of the Bank of the 
                        United States
                     with the conclusion that "there is an all-seeing Ruler of events that will not
                    suffer such a callamity …."16 Very few indulged in that sort
                    of divination. Indeed, as will be discussed later, a central part of the credo held that to do so
                    was both futile and presumptuous.
            Another fact that keeps the seemingly model instances of common man's 
                        Providence
                     from convincingly underwriting the modern stereotype involves a frequently allusive and
                    attributive quality. Illustrations that seem to partake of assertive providentialism drift out of
                    focus for being derivative. The humble American needed some prompting to record, let alone accept,
                    what twentieth century historians have contended he did. When Jackson Thomason reached the Ft. Hall
                    area on the 
                        California
                     trail, he had occasion to hear a Cumberland preacher take his text from Numbers 10:29.17 But the 
                        Mississippi
                     farmer did not bother to note his reaction, nor did he even specify what that text was:
                    Moses saying unto Hobab "We are journeying into the place of which the LORD said, I will
                    give it to you." Here, as in most such instances, one might infer an aggressive intimation,
                    but he could equally not. For martial assertiveness few people could have matched one E. A. B.
                    Phelps, a Mexican War private who wrote long and exultant letters to a 
                        Cincinnati
                     brother. The American army, once it arrived at 
                        Mexico City
                    , should press on, he thundered, to such places as St. Petersburg and 
                        London
                    . But for all the ecstasy that the prospect of extended war gave him, Phelps provided
                    only one strangely circumlocuted trace of 
                        Providence
                    
                    qua manifest destiny. Into a long letter that he wrote after returning to the
                    United 
                  
                     15 Andrew Lester Diary, April 11, 12, 1843 (New-York Historical
                            Society, 
                                New York City
                            ).
                  
                     16 William Williams to brother, February 27, 1834, in Chase C. Mooney,
                            ed., "Some Letters from 
                        Dover,
                                    Tennessee
                     , 1814 to
                            1855," 
                        
                                    Tennessee
                                 Historical Quarterly, VIII (September, 1949), 265.
                  
                     17 Jackson Thomason Diary, August 19, 1849 (State of 
                                Mississippi
                            , Department of Archives and History, Jackson).
               
                     States he pasted a newspaper clipped poem titled
                    "Chapultepec" and drew lines beside a passage treating the "proud
                    flag" from the north: 
                        That under its broad folds, to us was given
                        To spread o'er earth, the destiny of heaven.18
                  
                     Not only did Phelps have to borrow this expression of manifest destiny, he obtained it,
                    interestingly enough, from an Irish publicist, novelist, traveller, and Mexican War adventurer,
                    Mayne Reid. Private Phelps' militant visions derived from his notion that the 
                        United States
                     army had the potential of liberating not only Mexicans but Frenchmen, Englishmen,
                    Russians, or whoever seemed to suffer bondage. Not empire but the end of monarchy inspired this
                    frenzied soldier. His fantasies conjoined with manifest destiny only out of an incidental or
                    happenstance clipping of a Mayne Reid poem from an unidentified newspaper.
            Probably with the likes of Reid in mind, the "Editor's Table" at Harper's for June, 1857, turned attention to the theme of 
                        Providence
                    , that "most general, pervasive, ineradicable feeling in the hearts of our
                    countrymen." Like so many latter day commentators, this writer sensed that the providential
                    view was susceptible to being prostituted. "It is sometimes shamefully abused; its
                    significance perverted; its import falsified in the language of lust and licentiousness; its
                    benevolence sacrificed to intensify a plea for piracy; its religion degraded into a superstition
                    that talks of destiny as a Turk talks of fate or a Hindoo of relentless sovereignty, and whets a
                    filibustering appetite for carnage and conquest."19
            
            Four months later the "Editor's Table" again turned its wrath upon those
                    carrying "the doctrine of a 
                        Providence
                     in human affairs to a fatalistic conclusion, which they are pleased to call Manifest
                    Destiny; a doctrine which baptizes robbery and murder as providential phenomena
                        …."20 In his analysis of the American mood the writer
                    did more than describe one pernicious notion; in effect he separated "The American
                    Mind" into three forms, each taking 
                        Providence
                     as 
                  
                     18 E. A. B. Phelps to Samuel W. Phelps, March 25, 1848, Edward Ashley
                            Bowen Phelps Letters and Diary (Manuscripts Division, 
                                New York
                             Public Library, 
                                New York City
                            ).
                  
                     19 "How Ought American Mind to be Cultivated?" Harper's New Monthly Magazine, XV (June, 1857), 121.
                  
                     20 "The American Mind," ibid.
                            (October, 1857), 695.
               
                     point of departure. The first appears as the vast preponderance
                    of the citizenry, an element whose providential views are in this account more mentioned than
                    analyzed. Readers must have been little surprised to find that portion of society depicted in
                    substantive terms as "decent, orderly, respectable, intelligent, and productive."
                    However, the profile of this element becomes providentially more distinct by the editor's
                    identification of the two groups standing in small and "diseased" opposition. At
                    one extreme stood the "violent reformers" and "
                    ‘Come-outers.’ " They had eschewed or transcended the seeming
                    restraints of 
                        Providence
                     and had made an obsession of "free-will and personal responsibility"
                    to the point of accepting the "logic of anarchy." At the opposite remove stood
                    those manifest destineers discussed above—people who, for their heinous purposes, had not
                    dismissed 
                        Providence
                     but had tortured it into a fatalistic presentation of "national sins simply as
                    necessary events in the nation's progress to glory …."21
            
            The writings of undistinguished Americans suggest that the "Editor's
                    Table" apportionment had accuracy. Common folk most assuredly did not dismiss 
                        Providence
                    , nor did they harden it into ethical license. In particular, the much discussed notion
                    of manifest destiny ran at fundamental cross purposes to the popular credo. In this regard, one of
                    Frederick Merk's general contentions is appropriate. The "national
                    spirit," he wrote, was "hopeful of divine favor for national aspirations, though
                    not sure of it."22 The common man seemed never
                    "sure of it," and that may account for the failure to find even one instance of
                    the expression "manifest destiny" in the materials examined in the preparation of
                    this article.
            The American has traditionally appeared as notoriously, even ostentatiously, given to smug
                    contemplation of his own good fortune. That aspect of reputed national character has been
                    particularly galling to those upon whom the benefactions of fortune have been bestowed with keener
                    eye to strict accounting. The American's sense of good fortune very likely derived from the
                    fact of good fortune. When a comparatively salutary condition prevailed, the common man of the
                    mid-nineteenth 
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., 694–95, quoted, 695.
                  
                     22 Frederick Merk, Manifest Destiny and Mission in
                                American History: A Reinterpretation (
                                New York
                            , 1963), 261.
               
                     century ascribed that, as other things, to God's
                    purposes. It would have been wrong headed not to have recognized the condition; it would have been
                    inconsistent not to have seen it in theonomous terms. Thus it is appropriate to give some brief
                    treatment to the common man's perception of God's seeming willingness to prosper
                    him. Brevity is in order, for these humble occupants of a relatively smiling land had reservations,
                    not about the sway of 
                        Providence
                     but about the proportions of its boons and exactions. These lesser sorts had ample
                    reason to stay on the shy side of the providential ecstatics which are so frequently and
                    indiscriminately imputed to the American past. Where the dazzling rays of God's beaming
                    countenance were concerned, "the most articulate orator" had—to sunder
                    what Russel B. Nye once brought together—a far livelier and far different discernment
                    than did "the most mute, inglorious 
                        Milton
                    ."23
            
            In such way as to indicate that it had not occurred to everyone, the "Editor's
                    Table" at Harper's observed that "
                        Providence
                     teaches nations as well as individuals."24 From this one
                    can infer that God's dealings with the individual were recognized or assumed by all, while
                    matters of national condition and destiny had ancillary application. That would be much in keeping
                    with the mood of the "most mute, inglorious 
                        Milton
                    ." He had, of course, constricted horizons, and his writings show him rather
                    steadfastly keeping to his own bailiwick when providential concerns were under attention. When Wiley
                    Vester wrote home to 
                        North Carolina
                     to tell of new fortunes in 
                        Mississippi
                    , he showed well the tendency to bring omnipotent influences to immediate application.
                    By his letter the folks back in Nash County received gratifying word of the emigrant "on my
                    fine hors with my gold watch in my pocket and my boots a glittering and my spir shining and my
                    breast pin on my ruffled shirt." Whether fact or fiction, the account of his 
                        Mississippi
                     condition involved a hurtful comparison. He sensed that and urged the family not to
                    take offence. He meant, he said, only to give "the great God who presides over the destines
                    of nations thanks for giveing me sens spirit and resilution enogh to depart from the
                    bounds" of 
                        Nash County
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    . To be sure, 
                  
                     23 Russel B. Nye, This Almost Chosen People: Essays in
                                the History of American Ideas (East Lansing, Mich., 1966), 164.
                  
                     24 "How Ought American Mind to be Cultivated?"
                        122.
               
                     God presided over the destinies of nations; more immediately
                    and more importantly God had worked the removal of Wiley Vester from a land where "men
                    plows bare footed."25
            
            Most folk made providential ascription in a way more restrained than did this new Mississippian. Even
                    in their difficult lives, sunny moments occurred, and these small, felicitous intrusions required
                    proper recognition of source. Thus the untutored wife of a Buffalo nurseryman who had lifted himself
                    and his family from deprivation to solid prosperity advised her son how to view the formal education
                    he was now able to enjoy. She handled the language awkwardly, but that posed no barrier to her
                    central message: "improve remembering from whence all these blessings flow (it is from our
                    Heavenly Father)."26 Here the idea of remembering conveys emphatically
                    the pastness central to providential celebration. 
                        Providence
                     was all dimensional, but the certitude necessary to celebration obtained only in the
                    past. That kept in mind, each moment in time provided occasion for solemn and respectful retrospect
                    and, for the Buffalo housewife's immediate purposes, thankful retrospect. The opening line
                    of a letter often expressed providential belief in the most general way: "it is through the
                    goodness of God that our lives are spared to write you a few lines."27
            
            However much that may have been unthinking ritual, it provided the backdrop against which the fond
                    aspects of life appeared in their humble, providential progression. "The Kind
                    Providence," a 
                        Massachusetts
                     man wrote to his 
                        Connecticut
                     brother, "has granted us a lovely daughter …."28 A 
                        New York City
                     youth, whose diary is not as replete with prayerfulness as most, paused on a birthday
                    to reflect that "the Lord in his goodness has spared me 16 years and has given me health
                    and strength …."29 The much harried wife of a small 
                        Virginia
                     slaveowner counted other blessings. Having 
                  
                     25 Wiley Vester to Benjamin Vester, September 1, 1838, Elijah Vester
                            Papers (Southern Historical Collection, University of 
                                North Carolina
                             Library, 
                                Chapel Hill
                            ).
                  
                     26 M. L. Hodge and others to Lyman Hodge, October 2, 1849, Benjamin
                            Hodge Papers (Henry E. Huntington Library and Art Gallery, 
                                San Marino
                            , Cal.). By permission.
                  
                     27 Lois Lillie to Jacob B. Stevens, February 19, 1842, Henry Stevens
                            Letters (
                                Vermont
                             Historical Society, Montpelier).
                  
                     28 Augustine Holcomb to Nahum Holcomb, Jr., May 25, 1830, Holcomb
                            Family Letters (
                                Connecticut
                             State Library, 
                                Hartford
                            ).
                  
                     29 Edward F. Travis Diary, March 1, 1845 (Manuscripts Division, 
                                New York
                             Public Library).
               
                     borne several children, not all of whom survived, and being at
                    wit's end with the management of the handful of slave women, she had ample cause to view
                    her "monthly courses" with concern. In January of 1850 she confided in her diary
                    that "my courses came on[.] I felt so thankful[.] God is good and kind to me a
                    sinner." The same lady was not, given her time, being obsessively discerning in seeing
                    "God in his infinite mercy," as well as two doses of calomel, in the lifting of a
                    seige of diarrhea.30
            
            Perhaps with an assist from the mercury chloride God's infinite mercy had prevailed. But in
                    this "world of changes and disappointments,"31 as an aged New
                    Yorker described it, one never presumed too much; and that might explain why the "lovely
                    daughter" in 
                        Massachusetts
                    , though over two months of age, was yet unnamed. "The Lord willing"
                    represented far more than a figure of speech. In December, 1849, a company of 
                        Maine
                     argonauts bade farewell to "the land of the Bible religion and truth"
                    and boarded the ship that might carry them to a golden destiny. While yet at sea they pledged
                    themselves, as perhaps befitted their origin, to temperance during the rest of the voyage and during
                    the stay in 
                        California
                    . In the diary of one of them, immediately following the name of the destination,
                    appeared the crucial and characteristic qualifier: "(Should we be permitted by Kind
                    Providence to arrive there)."32 Tentativeness and the subjunctive mood
                    colored all. Such qualities issued in prayer and expressed faith, not that God would prosper, but
                    that God's will would be done.
            A visit to 
                        Auburn
                     prison made John Reed Barrows sense keenly the fitness of a "thankful
                    heart" and moved him to pray for perseverance in a path generally righteous.33 Evil lurked in myriad forms. For one twelve year old girl it took the shape of Maggie
                    Hutton, who tickled her during school prayer. Maggie could control her laughter; the distraught
                    diarist could not. "Oh!" she exclaimed, "what can I do?" 
                  
                     30 Pauline H. Stratton Diary, January 9–20, 1850, January
                            20, 1852, Western Historical Manuscripts Collection (University of 
                                Missouri
                             Library, 
                                Columbia
                            ).
                  
                     31 Ira McCall to John M. and P. Hanford, July 25, 1840, Hanford Family
                            Letters, Collection of Regional History (Cornell University, 
                                Ithaca
                            , N. Y.).
                  
                     32 Seth C. Whitehouse Journal, December 11, 1849 (
                                Maine
                             Historical Society, 
                                Portland
                            ).
                  
                     33 John Read Barrows, "Journal of a Trip from 
                                Brooklyn
                             to Niagara Falls in June 1841," 
                        
                                    New York
                                 History, XXIII (April, 1942), 193.
               
                     To trust in God was her evident answer, and to recall his
                    message: " ‘My grace is sufficient for thee.’"34 Levi Countryman of 
                        Minnesota
                     bore other burdens and exhibited other wickedness, but his reflections came to the same
                    conclusion. Money owed him was fugitive; his wife was an unbeliever; he was too querulous to farm
                    but unequipped to do anything else; and perhaps most vexing for appearing most controllable, he had
                    a vile and ungodly temper. "If ever I conquer it," he wrote in the anguish of self
                    deprecation following a particularly stormy outburst, "it will be through the mercies of
                    God, and it will show how great a conquest can be made."35
            
            No trifling power would accept the challenge posed by Countryman's irascibility. But the man
                    afflicted by that temper had little recourse other than hope for God's meliorating
                    intercession. He and countless others like him had, even in context, little control over their
                    circumstances—those "tyrannical circumstances" that even Emerson the
                    transcendentalist could not blink.36 If, as many would contend from other and
                    later perspectives, Countryman and his kind summoned "spirits from the vasty
                    deep," they sent that call for having no other. Thus, a despondent miner on the Yuba River,
                    trying bravely to conceal his financial and physical condition from a wife who must have seen
                    through, managed a closing, conjectural reassurance in his letter to her. "We will all be
                    happy yet[,] please God."37 To her family recently visited by death and
                    now torn by centrifugal forces, Keziah Taylor of Vassalboro, 
                        Maine
                    , insisted there be no despair. "Oh Sister," she implored,
                    "Dont feal discouraged for providence may open a Dore[.] I dearsiere to put my trust in the
                    Lord …." Three years later, addressing "Dea sister with
                    disepointments," Keziah stated explicitly what often remained a silent premise:
                    "thare no other asistance But God."38 Expressing a logical
                    extension of this Lovina 
                  
                     34 E. M. Olcott Diaries, February 21, 1857 (New-York Historical
                            Society).
                  
                     35 Levi Countryman Diary, November 2, 1858, Levi N. Countryman Papers (
                                Minnesota
                             Historical Society, 
                                St. Paul
                            ).
                  
                     36 Ralph Waldo Emerson, "Fate," in The
                                Complete Works of Ralph Waldo Emerson (Autograph Centenary edition, 12 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1883–1904), VI, 14.
                  
                     37 John Brophy to Mary Rebecca Brophy, December 2, 1849, Brophy-Beeson
                            Papers (
                                Huntington
                             Library). By permission.
                  
                     38 Abraham and Keziah Taylor to Nicholas Spinney, April 28, 1833,
                            October 16, 1836, Spinney-Hunt-Wildes Papers (
                                Maine
                             Historical Society).
               
                     Smith of Water Valley, 
                        New York
                    , asked her new husband the philosophically unanswerable question: "why should
                    we distrust 
                        Providence
                    ?"39
            
            Most likely, Lovina Smith would not have confused trusting and knowing; she would not have ignored
                    the fact that trust involved things unseen, by definition, unknown. With diarrhea and rain equally
                    able to keep him from work in the diggings, and with the death of his child just made known,
                    argonaut John Brewster worried about the days and months ahead. His observation that "the
                    Lord only knoweth what will be in the future"40 is noteworthy only
                    because of later assertions that people of Brewster's time were given to fancies of
                    premonitory earnests. Ernest Lee Tuveson posed as a chapter title the question, "When Did
                    Destiny Become Manifest?"41 Manifestly, the answer is that it never
                    did, not even to those inflamed special pleaders who assumed the role of prophet, better to say,
                    soothsayer. And even if O'Sullivan succeeded in gulling himself, precious small reason
                    exists to suppose that many others envisioned God in the guise of carnival pitchman giving
                    intimations of delights just ahead under the sublunary tent.
            A more characteristic and orthodox sentiment came from John W. Bugg of 
                        Keene
                    , 
                        New Hampshire
                    , at a moment of severe affliction. The God who had given a child had five weeks later,
                    "in the mystery of his providence," taken it away.42 Fellow
                    New Englander Horatio Chandler marked another death, William Henry Harrison's, and drew the
                    same conclusion. "The ways and doings of 
                        Providence
                     are inscrutable; it is not for anyone to say what were the designs in this instance of
                    that infinite Power …."43 The death of a daughter and of a
                    president had mighty ability to evoke such sentiments. But those sentiments did not stay in reserve
                    to parade at large and occasional cause; they were pervasive to the point of omnipresence. Where
                    would one be a year hence? 
                  
                     39 Lovina Smith to Joseph H. Smith, December 19, 1841, Lovina Smith
                            Letters, Collection of Regional History (Cornell University).
                  
                     40 John Brewster to brother, December 29, 1852, John Brewster Letters (
                                Connecticut
                             State Library).
                  
                     41 Ernest Lee Tuveson, Redeemer Nation: The Idea of
                                America's Millennial Role (
                                Chicago
                            , 1968), Chapter IV.
                  
                     42 John Wm. Bugg to Bela Paull, April 22, 1834, Mary Paul Letters (
                                Vermont
                             Historical Society).
                  
                     43 Horatio N. Chandler Account Book, April 15, 1841 (
                                New Hampshire
                             Historical Society, Concord).
               
                     Would another be able to get out of 
                        California
                     and back to a family? Why, as an exasperated young Georgian put it, should such a
                    "low-life old wench"44 as one Mrs. Irby be given
                    God's license to exist? These and countless other interesting matters were
                    "inscrutable," "incomprehensible,"
                    "mysterious," or "strange," Destiny did not manifest itself; the
                    future wore a coy and undemonstrative expression; and even immediate circumstances bore a fathomless
                    cast. Endlessly, Cowper's refrain bespoke it: 
                        God moves in a mysterious way
                        His wonders to perform.
                    
            
            God did not go about idly vouchsafing the details and intricacies of His absolute sway. For that
                    reason, and for various and sufficient others as well, it behooved man to be up and doing. At least
                    from Augustine forward theologians and philosophers have been much engaged in bringing human and
                    extrahuman agencies into accommodation. Seventeenth century Puritans worked out an articulate,
                    logical dividing of agency between man and God, and they achieved general success in avoiding the
                    narcotizing potential of a providentially determinist ethos. Their nineteenth century descendants
                    had less talent for logical rigor; but they too made a large effort to reconcile 
                        Providence
                     with human initiative. The inscrutability to 
                        Providence
                     did not perplex or overawe to the point of despairing apathy; the universality of 
                        Providence
                     did not crush or lull the human spirit.
            Yes indeed, "God & the Constitution" had made John Tyler president, Stephen
                    Goddard of 
                        Missouri
                     angrily admitted, "but who made him Vice President?"45 Even God and the Constitution could not bear full responsibility for that. The fact that
                    "God was in control," John Ward wrote somewhat unguardedly, gave the American a
                    license to indiscriminate action; man "was not responsible." "In the
                    final analysis," as Ward phrased it, that may be true; but in matters of immediate fact it
                    is quite wide of the mark.46 Man retained responsibility. The Lord may have
                    interceded manifestly 
                  
                     44 William F. Heard to sister, October 20, 1856, George H. Tunnell
                            Collection, Six Vault (
                                Georgia
                             Department of Archives and History, 
                                Atlanta
                            ).
                  
                     45 Stephen Goddard to Abner L. Goddard, August 4, 1842, Orrin F. Smith
                            and Family Papers (
                                Minnesota
                             Historical Society).
                  
                     46 Ward, Andrew Jackson, 213.
               
                     and crucially in various January 8th and July 4th reenactments
                    of the Battle of 
                        New Orleans
                    . Few, of course, would have seen that episode outside larger designs. Still, the battle
                    itself engaged human capacities. Thus, when Samuel Nichols visited the scene, he puzzled over the
                    disparity in losses, and then tentatively concluded that it reflected the "great difference
                    in judgment and tallent" between the two commanders.47 Prison visits
                    did not solely issue reflections that "there but for the grace of God go we."
                    Men's freedom—in this case their "folly and vice," as a
                    visitor to the institution in 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , put it—was God's
                        necessity.48 Or, to employ the form that Emerson hazarded in
                    "Fate," freedom is necessary. When his brother died, young James Amsted Brown
                    noted and accepted his mother's source of solace, "a wise 
                        Providence
                    ." And there was no necessary refutation or inconsistency with a belief in 
                        Providence
                     in the following: "I shall always feel as though he might have recovered had
                    he been in the hands of Competant Doctors."49 In
                    simplest terms, God was given to helping those who helped themselves. It was a joint effort.
                    "May 
                        Providence
                     direct me," went the plea from 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, "in the right paths and smile upon my honest and laudable
                        efforts."50
            
            Honest and laudable efforts did not always suffice. Human capacities had in themselves noteworthy
                    deficiencies, and, as well, they could be undone by a "preventing providence."
                    That usage appeared as a qualifier to various projects and intentions. One Thomas S.
                    Bennett's notation that he would be married in a week, "if no preventing
                        providence,"51 indicates the potential contravention of human
                    designs—however honest and laudable. And that expression conveys a directness and a
                    personalness of divine intent that "act of God" lacks. The latter suggests
                    something peripherally or coincidentally effecting the person discommoded—in
                    God's 
                  
                     47 Samuel Nichols to wife, March 26, 1850, Samuel Nichols Collection (
                                Huntington
                             Library). By permission.
                  
                     48 Louise Fogle, ed., "Journal of Ebenezer Mattoon
                            Chamberlain," Indiana Magazine of History, XV (September, 1919),
                            238.
                  
                     49 James Amsted Brown Diary, March 8, 1860 (
                                Vermont
                             Historical Society).
                  
                     50 Josiah M. Hickman Diary, September 19, 1848 (Indiana Division,
                            Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     51 Thomas S. Bennett to Thomas S. Espy, April 23, 1836, Espy Family
                            Papers, 1800–1900, Western Historical Manuscripts Collection (University of
                                    
                        Missouri, Columbia
                     ).
               
                     wisdom it rained, the creek rose, and the nuptials were
                    delayed. By the same token, the axiom of Thomas à Kempis—man proposes but God
                    disposes—took on a particularly stern and abrupt form among pre-Civil War common people.
                    Having been swept by enthusiasm to the Far West, Webster Abbott addressed mother, brother, and
                    sister regarding vicissitudes in 
                        Nevada City
                    , 
                        California
                    . With many miners "cursing" the place and leaving if they could,
                    Abbott told of his hope soon to return to his loved ones in 
                        New York
                    . But, as he noted in revision of Kempis, "‘Man can [ap]point
                    & God can disapoint.’"52 The comparative
                    impersonality of dispose gave way to the immediacy of disappoint.
            
            In an early section of The Method of Divine Government, James M'Cosh
                    directed attention to "The Restraints and Penalties of 
                        Divine
                     Providence." The conjunction M'Cosh expressed by tying the words,
                    "Restraints and Penalties," to 
                        Providence
                     represented more than theological dogma cast in a Scottish American grimness that would
                    be quite prepared to accommodate even the unlovely aspects of evolutionary theory. 
                        Providence
                     in its obstructive and hurtful form permeated popular thought. There are,
                    M'Cosh wrote, "numberless restraints, corrections, medicaments, and
                    penalties" waiting for each man at every turn, "now with their bristling points to
                    stop his career, and anon with their whips to punish."53 When Webster
                    Abbott wrote that letter from 
                        Nevada City
                     on January 12, he told of the "bristling points." The
                    "whips" that punish came on January 19 when a letter informed him that the mother
                    to whom he had so recently written was now dead several months.
            In his 1860 essay titled "Fate," Emerson treated that troublesome category or
                    specter at which he had, as transcendentalist, so consistently shaken his fist. Though the essay
                    reveals a sobering, even somber Emerson, in one place it makes a separation of good and evil that
                    smacks of the modern depiction of happy and ebullient providentialism. "The bulk of
                    mankind," he wrote, "believe in two gods…. To a certain point, they
                    believe themselves the care of a 
                        Providence
                    . But in a steamboat, in an epidemic, in war, they 
                  
                     52 Webster Abbott to mother, brother, and sister, January 12, 1851,
                            Peck Family Papers, Collection of Regional History (Cornell University).
                  
                     53 James M'Cosh, The Method of Divine
                                Government, Physical and Moral (
                                New York
                            , 1852), 44.
               
                     believe a malignant energy rules."54 The "bulk of mankind," as represented in extant evidence, believed no
                    such thing. The steamboat, the epidemic, the war only gave the quietly pervasive providential tone
                    crescendo dimensions. Emerson seems to have erred in suggesting, as M'Cosh and the common
                    man would not have done, a mutually exclusive relationship between "
                        Providence
                    " and "malignant energy." One might suppose that Emerson took
                    so happy a view of God as to obviate His connection with mundane untidiness. Here, one might
                    conjecture that the modern emphasis upon the benignity of God has caused some misconstruing of
                    nineteenth century views. If God be love, for example, then those under God's control, as
                    modern America's ancestors claimed to be, enjoyed a beloved and blessed condition. For
                    their purported presumption and smugness, a later age would take them to task. These ancestors would
                    have been quite bewildered by the charge. They had, most likely, read the twenty-second as well as
                    the twenty-third psalm.
            And Emerson, for all his encouragement to man, was no bland euphemizer. Indeed, the separation noted above—"
                        Providence
                    " contrasted with "malignant energy"—had no place
                    at the outset of the essay when the "way of 
                        Providence
                    " came under specific scrutiny. There, the philosopher expressed perfectly the
                    sentiments of the "bulk of mankind." "Now and then," he
                    chidingly noted, some "amiable parson" posits a "pistareen-
                        Providence
                    , which, whenever the good man wants a dinner, makes that somebody shall knock at his
                    door and leave a half-dollar." But in fact, "The way of 
                        Providence
                     is a little rude." Rude indeed. The "snap of the tiger," the
                    "crackle of the bones" in the coil of the anaconda, the slaughterhouse just beyond
                    the diner's view, the scurvy at sea, fever and ague on the western prairies, cholera,
                    smallpox, the 
                        Lisbon
                     earthquake, volcanoes, and intestinal parasites evidenced that rudeness. "
                        Providence
                     has a wild, rough, incalculable road to its end, and it is of no use to try to
                    whitewash its huge, mixed instrumentalities, or to dress up that terrific benefactor in a clean
                    shirt and white neckcloth of a student in divinity."55
            
            A "pistareen-
                        Providence
                    " would have been as unlikely and as unconvincing to Rose Spinney of Unity, 
                        Maine
                    , as it 
                  
                     54
                            Works of Emerson, VI, 31.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., 6–8.
               
                     was to the sage of Concord. Census figures show Spinney as a
                    farm widow with small children and precious little else. In a retrospective view on January 1, 1860,
                    she told a niece that writing itself had become a burden—"the same old sad story
                    to tell over & over again." There had been, she recalled, "a few days of
                    sunshine," but "many nights of darkness." One of those nights of darkness
                    in 1846 inspired her to the use of lowering, even threatening metaphor that much bespoke the common
                    perceptions of 
                        Providence
                    . As she wrote to her parents late at night, the storm that raged in nature evoked
                    imagery of storm in other dimensions: "I hear the distant thunder which speaks the voice of
                    Him who rides upon the sormy sky."56 Whitewashing those "huge,
                    mixed instrumentalities," except in the ultimate philosophical sense, would not have
                    occurred to those who encountered them. When Lizzie Robbins confided in an old friend against the
                    backdrop of a seriously ill husband and at least one child already dead, she could say that God had
                    heeded her prayers, "though it has been in such a way, as almost drove me to
                        despair."57 A 
                        Massachusetts
                     man writing to a westering brother gently broached the subject of the death (or other
                    departure) of the latter's wife, and in so doing indicated the rudeness and the mixed
                    instrumentalities of which Emerson spoke. Augustine Holcomb's hope was that the Almighty
                    would now "heal the deep wound made in your affected bosom by the repeated strikes of his
                        providence."58
            
            The providential web, for being purposeful as well as all encompassing, was seen as working, not just
                    trials, but "trials that are calculated." A specific answer to the question,
                    "calculated to do what?", would have been uncomfortably close to the divination
                    discussed earlier. But some facets of the spiritual upshot of a past event could hardly be ignored;
                    indeed God occasionally became almost didactic. As indicated earlier, the personal and immediate
                    dimension generally occupied the full attention of humble people, and, in turn, it elicited by far
                    the greatest amount of "calculating" of suffering 
                  
                     56 Rose G. Spinney to Nicholas Spinney, May 10, 1846; Rose G. Spinney
                            to niece, January 1, 1860, Spinney-Hunt-Wildes Papers (
                                Maine
                             Historical Society).
                  
                     57 Lizzie Robbins to Julia Pelton, September 8, 1858, Oliver Pelton
                            Correspondence (
                                Connecticut
                             State Library).
                  
                     58 Augustine Holcomb to Milo Holcomb, December, 1830, Holcomb Family
                            Letters (
                                Connecticut
                             State Library).
               
                     or hardship. A young 
                        Tennessee
                     daguerreotypist employed the doctrine of specific etiology in a rare providential
                    version when he connected a brief illness with having broken the Sabbath.59
                    Retributive visitations had a place in the schema, though most people, unlike the daguerreotypist,
                    exercized caution in drawing definite connections. Very likely after some hesitation, Abigail
                    Williams concluded that several family deaths, "not one of them professors of
                    religion," beggared sheer coincidence, and that they represented a "loud call from
                        God."60
            
            Loud calls resonated across the pre-Civil War landscape, generally with volume far exceeding clarity.
                    However indistinct the message, most folk—unlike Abigail Williams—brought the
                    burden of it home and had the good grace to resist too frequent discernment of God's
                    punitive scourge in the neighbor's setbacks. Occasionally, a jealous God appeared, one not
                    to be mocked by human fondnesses grown to idolatrous proportions. It is well to recall that the
                    popular, didactic poet, Martin Tupper—a man read widely in America as well as in 
                        England
                    —could warn in his poem "Of Marriage," to "Take
                    heed lest she love thee before God; that she be not an idolater."61
                    Cordelia Randall of 
                        Norwich
                    , 
                        New York
                    , also knew the theme and observed that "an all wise 
                        Providence
                    " had worked the removal of her dearest friend, Emily Lewis. "I now
                    feel that I thought to much of you. Ah! you were my idol, you robed my Parent above, of
                    my affections, & he has seen fit to seperate us."62 Transferred
                    to another situation, like the death of a small child, this mechanism underscored a profound dilemma
                    and could produce intense self laceration.
            A providential implication of this theme bears noting here. Mary Bunting of 
                        Cheraw County
                    , 
                        South Carolina
                    , provided a very explicit illustration. Love for and contentment 
                  
                     59 Mary Daggett Lake, ed., "A Diary of the Travels of William
                            G. Randle, Daguerreotypist, of 
                        Henry County,
                                    Tennessee
                     , 1852," 
                        
                                    Tennessee
                                 Historical Magazine, IX (October, 1925), 206.
                  
                     60 Abigail Day Williams to Mrs. A. Willard, July 5, 1835, Fred Rider,
                            Jr., Collector, Family Papers, 1784–1856, Collection of Regional History (Cornell
                            University).
                  
                     61
                            Tupper's Poetical Works: Containing "Proverbial
                            Philosophy," "A Thousand Lines," Hactenus
                            Etc. (
                                New York
                            , 1882), 111. This book has double pagination. Citation refers to the first set
                            of pages.
                  
                     62 Cordelia Randall to E. E. Lewis, January 30, 1839, Papers of
                            Abiathar Hubbard Watkins and Emily Lewis Watkins (Manuscripts Division, 
                                New York
                             Public Library).
               
                     with her baby had, she informed her 
                        Alabama
                     brother, seduced her soul into complacency. Obsessed with her child, she had ignored
                    the source of her blessings. But "God would not be mocked." Now, Mary Bunting
                    belatedly heeded her master's will; for her lapse she richly "deserved" what she now received, "to be beaten with many
                        stripes."63 Whatever other message might be inferred from the
                    "loud calls," the least mistakable consisted in the warning most commonly stated
                    as "be ye also ready." That theme was so fundamental and so prevalent that, were
                    the common man to stumble upon the isolated expression, manifest destiny, he would most likely have
                    imaged death and the grave.
            "Trials that were calculated" evidenced at the personal level providential
                    retribution, jealousy, and warning. God's handling of larger matters fell into similar,
                    stern patterns, though, once again, humble attentions were far less frequently directed to such
                    things. On a Sunday in August, 1848, William Hoffman, a young clerk in 
                        Albany
                    , heard his favorite preacher discourse on "providential proceedings."
                    Two days before, 
                        Providence
                     had shown its wrath; 
                        Albany
                     had burned. Writing in the evening of the holocaust, the clerk undertook to describe
                    the "indescribable." "Citizens thousands of them stood with frantic horor
                    and gazed as if completely paralized with the astounding and frightful scenes of the raging
                    element." The efforts to contain the conflagration went for nought: "
                        
                            Providence
                        
                     it seemed ordained that such should be our destiny, & justly marked with her terrific
                        rod, in destructive flames of fire[,] that portion of our
                    city meriting her awful sentence; wicked as I might suppose they were; received as a lesson & a warning to farther daily iniquity the striking down
                    of their Dwellings—& Ware Houses …." Young Hoffmann
                    approached incoherence; but there was no mistaking this "lesson"
                    and "warning" of "
                  
                            Providence
                        ."64
            
            In turn, in the infrequent instances that noted God's sway over the nation, the emphasis
                    centered on painful instruction or disquieting portents. Writing from his 
                        Arkansas
                     farm to the family back in 
                        Kentucky
                    , Jesse Owen told of the illness that had struck the Mexican War volunteers at Ft. 
                  
                     63 Mary Bunting to David James Bunting, February 18, 1845, Mary
                            Bunting Letters (South Caroliniana Library, 
                                Columbia
                            , S. C.).
                  
                     64 William Hoffman Diary, August 17, 19, 1848 (New-York Historical
                            Society).
               
                     Gibson. Like most, he showed caution in drawing connections,
                    and so he could only wonder if the epidemic which had killed his own son-in-law had come as some
                    general "scerge for wekidness."65 Back in 
                        North Carolina
                     Charles Peterson knew that, if there had not been a comeuppance already, there
                    certainly would be one shortly. Speaking of the war measures, Peterson noted that when a nation
                    trampled "justice under fot," 
                        Providence
                     had a "judgement awaiting."66 This is not to say
                    that most or even many opposed the Mexican War. It is to say, however, that not one source examined
                    ascribed to God any active guidance or support in the undertaking. And some, as noted, agonized over
                    defiance of God. After all, tradition and orthodoxy had rarely emphasized a God who warmly and
                    generously supplemented society's efforts. A man named Chapin at 
                  Bath, New York
               ,
                    probably did not strike an anachronistic note in remarking the purport of "famine and pestilence" that he discerned in 1847. By such
                    things, he wrote, "the Nations may know that the Lord has a controversy with the nation and
                    that the Lord is at the Door in truth."67 God's controversy
                    yet bore a livelier, more palpable cast than did His encouraging embrace.
            Thus one finds it difficult to explain the latter day insistence that Americans viewed themselves as
                    a "chosen people" or God's 
                        New Israel
                    , to employ Conrad Cherry's title.68 Cherry and others have
                    relied much on H. Richard Niebuhr's observation in the Kingdom of God in
                        America: "The old idea of American Christians as a chosen people who had been
                    called to a special task was turned into a notion of a chosen nation especially favored."
                    Indeed, the "note of divine favoritism" increased as the nineteenth century went
                        along.69 To the common man of the pre-Civil War period, the idea of
                    "divine favoritism" would have seemed blasphemy, drollery, or painful irony.
            
               
                  65 Jesse W. Owen to John B. Clark, September 22, 1846, John B. Clark
                        Papers (
                            Kentucky
                         Historical Society, 
                            Frankfort
                        ).
               
                  66 Charles Peterson to Elam Slagle, April 9, 1847, Elam Slagle Papers,
                        Southern Historical Collection (University of 
                            North Carolina
                        ).
               
                  67 N. Chapin to Asa Chapin, June 27, 1847, Lyman Stuart, Collector,
                        Stampless Covers, Collection of Regional History (Cornell University).
               
                  68 Conrad Cherry, God's 
                                New Israel
                            : Religious Interpretations of American Destiny (
                            Englewood Cliffs
                        , 
                            N.J.
                        , 1971).
               
                  69 H. Richard Niebuhr, The Kingdom of God in America (
                            New York
                        , 1959), 179.
            
            
            One of the most unrestrained and serviceable exclamations of that motif came from Herman Melville in
                        White Jacket.
                    
                        And we Americans are the peculiar, chosen people—the 
                                Israel
                             of our time; we bear the ark of liberties of the world. Seventy years ago we
                            escaped from thrall; and, besides our first birthright—embracing one continent of
                            earth—God has given to us, for a future inheritance, the broad domains of the
                            political pagans, that yet shall come and lie down under the shade of our ark, without
                            bloody hands being lifted. God predestinated, mankind expects, great things from our race;
                            and great things we feel in our souls.70
                  
                     Time and again Melville limned a providential fabric vastly less enticing, and vastly
                    removed from this rambunctious godly underwriting of national intentions. In the same chapter
                    Melville made a special plea against the use of flogging in the 
                        United States
                     navy. Here he took license with 
                        Providence
                     for what he deemed a good cause as most likely O'Sullivan did in regard to
                    expansion. God, the overall contention went, had "predestinated" Americans for
                    things that quite transcended the brutal shabbiness of flogging derelict sailors. A bit of
                    providential legerdemain seemed justified.
            Melville's forgivable outburst requires more cautious use than it has often received. In the
                        American Idea of Mission Edward McNall Burns, for example, employed the key
                    sentence ("And we Americans are the peculiar, chosen people,…") as
                    motif, and placed it in emblazoned isolation on a frontis sheet. However, the one mention of
                    Melville in the text itself observed that in regard to the happy notion analyzed in the book,
                    "Only a few bilious critics like Herman Melville and Nathaniel Hawthorne expressed
                    discordant notes."71 Poor Melville gets the same wrenching in Russel B.
                    Nye's ironically titled This Almost Chosen People. The sentence from White Jacket stands dutifully at the head of the chapter treating "The
                    American Sense of Mission." But in the summary statement regarding that mood, the last
                    sentence of that chapter reads in part: "It has sometimes been clothed with certain
                    ambiguities and reservations (as in Cotton Mather, Melville, Hawthorne, Dreiser, or Faulkner) 
                  
                     70 Herman Melville, White Jacket or The World in a
                                Man-of-War, in Works of Melville, VI, 189.
                  
                     71 Edward McNall Burns, American Idea of Mission:
                                Concepts of National Destiny and Purpose (
                                New Brunswick
                            , N. J., 1957), 28.
               
                     …,"72 Ambiguities and
                    reservations, indeed. Melville and Hawthorne stood not in pensive and prescient isolation; whether
                    they wanted it or not, they had vast company in humble America.
            Between the "diseased" extremes of manifest destiny on the one hand and
                    "violent" reform on the other, there resided in the Harper's
                        Monthly charting of "The American Mind" a "sublime repose in the
                    purposes of 
                        Providence
                    ."73 Though a bit elevated the editor's phrase
                    neatly conveyed the spirit in which unsophisticated America sought to meet its slings and arrows.
                    The final reflection of the harsh and awesome aspects of providential workings consisted in the
                    nearly unbroken urging of resignation, meekness, and submission. Along such approaches, one moved
                    toward an emotional and philosophical accommodation with a scheme of things not renowned for
                    solicitude where man's well being was concerned.
            Some illumination may come from the contrast provided by a failure to reach that repose, sublime or
                    not. Lawrence Parker's courtship of Fanny Barbour had troublous moments that seemed to
                    derive largely from Parker's latitudinarian views. Barbour considered him hazardously near
                    deism and thus inadequately appreciative of God's immediate control of human destinies.
                    How, she demanded to know on one occasion, could he doubt personal providence when he had himself so
                    recently been raised from what appeared to be a death bed? Perhaps love stayed a rejoinder to that;
                    but it was a concern that returned in sadly intensified form. Some five years after their marriage
                    Fanny died after a long illness, and Lawrence was left to work out his repose.74
            
            For that he felt inadequate. This "dealing of 
                        Providence
                    ," he admitted to a brother-in-law, had never crossed his mind as a true
                    possibility until his wife had grown quite ill. And now, this spiritually marginal man felt that he
                    had "not lived enough like Christ to be prepaired" for such a blow. By
                    "like Christ" he meant submissive and resigned, qualities which Parker could not
                    assume. His wife had been taken, he wrote, from a supremely happy family "circle"
                    in 
                  
                     72
                            Nye, This Almost Chosen People, 164, 206.
                  
                     73 "The American Mind," 695.
                  
                     74 Lawrence Parker to Fanny Barber, November 8, 1834, Fanny Barber to
                            Lawrence Parker, November 5, 1836, Lawrence Parker to Fanny Barber, November 19, 1836, and
                            October 15, 1838, Barbour-Parker Family Letters, Collection of Regional History (Cornell
                            University).
               
                     the midst of her "years of
                    usefulness"—"why this afflicting circumstance I cannot
                    conceive." Thus far, he had stated no more than bare and indisputable facts, but the
                    heterodoxy that his wife had long before discerned was again surfacing. "I do not feel
                    right," he complained. "I earnestly pray God to give me right views and feelings
                    on this matter, yet to say that I am reconciled to it would not be dealing truthfully with
                        myself."75
            
            Lawrence Parker contravened the period's central injunction to the bereaved: mourn but do
                    not murmur. The intense and voluminous eschewing of the latter necessitates a bit of definition.
                    That word murmur conveyed something quite other than a low noise of perhaps pleasant or poetic
                    nature. It denoted, far more than it would later, grumbling, complaint, and "sullen
                    discontent" that the 1855 edition of Webster's dictionary aptly illustrated with
                        Exodus 17:3: "and the people murmured against Moses."
                    Whatever came involved providential intent. None must quarrel with that. With another summer of
                    cholera underway, a mother's advice to her children rephrased the enduring formula. Should
                    it be "the will of heaven to afflict us let us all endeavor to bow with meek submission to
                    its holy will."76 The inclusion of "endeavor"
                    suggests that some, like Lawrence Parker, would fall short of the ideal of "sublime
                    repose," and suggests, of course, that advising came easier than performing. In turn, the
                    frequent, redundant, and tautological spiritual pleas—"I humbly ask for a
                    submissive spirit,"77 or "I do desire to feel willing to
                    submit"—underscore in their involuted way the preeminence of that central urging
                    to self and others.78 From God was besought the temper not to murmur at His
                    workings, however painful they might be.
            Even the more secular and, occasionally, irreverent reflections along this line have parallels
                    revealing a people quite disinclined to take arms against a sea of ordained troubles. A clerk aboard
                    a 
                        California
                     bound vessel provided an almost definitive illustration when he translated
                    "Philosophy" 
                  
                     75 Lawrence Parker to Goodrich Barbour, September 15, 1848, ibid.
                  
                  
                     76 Mother to children, July 16, [1850?], George Harbold Letters (
                                Kentucky
                             Historical Society).
                  
                     77 Hannah Newcomb to Patty Garrett, July 12, 1836, Newcomb-Johnson
                            Collection (
                                Huntington
                             Library). By permission.
                  
                     78 Sophia Mackres to uncle, [July 2, 1850?], Lucien Parker
                            Correspondence (
                                Huntington
                             Library). By permission.
               
                     as "making the best of the worst."79 In 
                        Woodstock
                    , 
                        Connecticut
                    , Lois Lillie, knowing she could no longer meet the demands of common housework, thought
                    of trying the "factory," but saw the poor house looming large before her. After a
                    page of detailed griefs, ruined hopes, and the certainty of felicity having avoided her, she
                    concluded by writing "but i am what i am so i will be content."80 In such a world, the first person pronoun left in the lower case had aptness, however
                    unintentional. And the world could be yet grimmer. In 1859 a 
                        Wisconsin
                     woman wrote to a relative telling that she and a son eked out a living by needlework. A
                    chronicle of recent events in their lives represented a litany of pain, but she concluded
                    philosophically: "so it is and we must bear it and not complain." Her son, George
                    Dickenson, shared that view and probably did so in the face of even greater anguish. He still had,
                    he informed an aunt that same fall, wretched health; indeed, now he was suffering
                    "fitts" at least three days in every two weeks, "but I must grin
                    & bear them but I regret that I ever lived to see this age."81
            
            One could explain this general, spiritual quiessence in terms of simple and unadorned necessity. When
                    young Thomas Hayter wrote from 
                        Oregon
                     Territory telling a sister of the death of their father and, apparently, a brother, he
                    spoke in unanswerable terms: "it has pleased the good Lord to Remove them and i Can but
                    Submit and say His Will Be Done."82 Here there was literally no appeal.
                    But one wonders about parallel situations where, at least by modern lights, there was both appeal
                    and redress. The degree to which mankind has willingly suffered seemingly remediable ills for
                    viewing them as God ordained provides fuel for lively and enduring conjecture. But that theme has no
                    great bearing on the present study. However much one might be pleased to infer or extrapolate about
                    social, economic, or political implications 
                  
                     79 Unidentified daily journal kept on a voyage from 
                                New York
                             to 
                                San Francisco
                             in 1848, August 26, 1848 (New-York Historical Society).
                  
                     80 Lois Lillie to Jacob Stevens, December 30, n.d., Henry Stevens
                            Letters, 1851–1853 (
                                Vermont
                             Historical Society).
                  
                     81 George Henry Dickenson to aunt, September 11, 1859, A. Dickenson to
                            sister, November 14, 1859, Joel Crane and Eunice Fitch Family Correspondence (Indiana
                            Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     82 Thomas J. Hayter to Elizabeth Coleman, October 21, 1855,
                            Coleman-Hayter Letters, 1840–1900, Western Historical Manuscripts Collection
                            (University of 
                        Missouri, Columbia
                     ).
               
                     of the providential view, very little that the humble man wrote
                    could be brought directly to bear on such matters.
            An instance—as enticing as it is rare—came from James Duffe, an employee of the
                    marine hospital in 
                        Brooklyn
                    . Duffe knew the horrors of the medical practice of the period, and he knew the putrid
                    meat and the wretched butter, stinking like a "sconk," that passed for food.
                    Complaint went for nothing, he noted, because the "godly Superintendent" would
                    coldly contend that "the Lord sent it and you must eat it you hireling."83 The rarity of such items must derive, at least in part, from the lively
                    belief in human agency and human responsibility. Stinking butter seems to have been a staple item of
                    the period; but very few had the ill grace to leave it in God's accounting. The narcotizing
                    and mollifying aspects of the providential message generally came into play where things more nearly
                    unalterable than stinking butter were concerned.
            A related rationale for providential resignation inheres in the notion of compensation, the idea that
                    distress suffered here redounds to one's benefit in the hereafter. Emerson posed a
                    caricatured version of this belief at the outset of "Compensation," gave it a
                    derisive dismissal, and replaced it with a working that has since been derisively dismissed. But the
                    heavenly compensatory idea, for all its apparent appeal, engaged little of the attention of this
                    providentially obsessed people. Perhaps, as Emerson suggested at the outset of his essay,
                    "the people knew more than the preachers taught."84 Clear
                    assertions of the hardship-reward equation, of pie-in-the-sky payoff, are exceedingly rare. Robert
                    Spinney of 
                        Boothbay
                    , 
                        Maine
                    , obliged posterity by putting it much as Emerson parodied it: men were taught that
                    "our trials hear" work for a greater glory beyond.85 And the
                    children of aged and suffering Polly Tarble of 
                        Brookline
                    , 
                        Vermont
                    , urged her, perhaps pardonably, to remember that "our tribles and trials here
                    will only make us richer their …,"86
            
            Far more frequently, however, one finds the tentative and prayerful conjunction of temporal suffering
                    with spiritual 
                  
                     83 James Duffe Diary, March 30, 1844 (New-York Historical Society).
                  
                     84
                            Works of Emerson, II, 93.
                  
                     85 Robert Spinney to Nicholas Spinney, March 31, 1834,
                            Spinney-Hunt-Wildes Papers (
                                Maine
                             Historical Society).
                  
                     86 M.A.H. and L.T. to Polly Tarble, n.d. [1830s?], Haile Family Papers (
                                Vermont
                             Historical Society).
               
                     well being. Afflictions abounded, as all knew. But only some
                    afflictions had a "sanctified" effect. Thus, the hope and the prayer, not the glib
                    equation or assertion, went forth that distressing visitations might indeed redound to spiritual
                    benefit. "Oh[,] that God would sanctify his afflictions unto him …"87 But the spiritual benefit did not appear as ultimate and absolute. The word
                    sanctify, which was widely used in this context, connotes a mediary or preparatory matter. It
                    involved, as the 1855 Webster's put it, "detaching the affections from the world
                    and its defilements." Sanctification meant no cosmic quid pro quo, no
                    street of gold for every painful step taken. The good lady quoted immediately above prayed for
                    something less than that; she prayed that should he recover her husband would get religion.
            Perry Miller saw in the Puritans, for all their brooding sense of human shortcoming and godly
                    vindictiveness, a "cosmic optimism." Ultimately and necessarily, things issued in
                    the good. Endlessly in the nineteenth century, as perhaps in all other times, those of humble
                    fortune and beleaguered situation took the consolation of that article of faith, without which the
                    spirit must have failed. The providential view begat a resignation, meekness, and submission
                    underwritten in logical finality by the unanswerable conviction that all worked for the best. What
                    Miller called "the indispensable premise of all 
                        Puritan
                     belief"88 still flourished in popular thought two hundred
                    years later.
            When Sarah Grimes insisted that a particular affliction "may be ominous of good,"
                    she conjoined the dimensions of immediate ill and ultimate good in what seems an artfully ironic
                    way. But the sentiment is more trite than first appears; ominous, that is partaking of omens, had
                    not yet been limited to the negative aspect. Grimes was no phrase maker, only a simple 
                        New Hampshire
                     woman urging someone to see that "tis all right and just."89 A school composition book kept by Mary Copp of Savannah provides a
                    classically common treatment of "Evidences of the Goodness of God." For her
                    teacher's edification Copp itemized and illustrated the 
                  
                     87 Pauline H. Stratton Diary, January 7, 1858, Western Historical
                            Manuscripts Collection (University of 
                                Missouri
                            ).
                  
                     88 Perry Miller, The 
                                    New England
                                 Mind: The Seventeenth Century (
                                Cambridge
                            , 
                                Mass.
                            , 1963), 208.
                  
                     89 Sarah Grimes to Mary [?], May 20, 1855, Grimes Family
                            Correspondence (
                                New Hampshire
                             Historical Society).
               
                     plethora of goods to be enjoyed—the beauties of
                    nature, abundant food, a "free country," not failing to mention, of course, good
                    parents and good teachers. But the young lady from 
                        Georgia
                     had a strong glimmering of the sorts of dilemmas for which exists, if little else, the
                    word theodicy. "The goodness of God," Copp boldly continued, "is shown in
                    another way by his afflictions—though they are not always so considered."
                    Evidently, she too knew some who "murmured." For a bit, Copp struggled through
                    thickets where theologians had done better to tread. But suddenly she had the firm guidance and
                    passage of a common sense authority not to be gainsaid, William Cowper. Surely, as Copp's
                    teacher anticipated Cowper's sentiment, there must have rushed to mind the mood, the metre,
                    and then the serenity of that oft used message: 
                        Judge not the Lord by feeble sense,
                        But trust him for his grace;
                        Behind a frowning providence
                        He hides a smiling face.90
                  
                    
            
            "Great men, great nations," Emerson reminded his countrymen in
                    "Fate," "have not been boasters and buffoons, but perceivers of the
                    terror of life, and have manned themselves to face it." After noting regretfully that
                    "Our America has a bad name for superficialness,"91 he cited
                    some of the "heroic races" that were "proud believers in
                    Destiny." "The Turk, the Arab, the Persian, accepts the foreordained fate
                    …. The Hindoo, under the wheel, is as firm. Our Calvinists in the last generation had
                    something of the same dignity. They felt that the weight of the Universe held them down to their
                        place."92 The "fatalist," whether providentialist
                    or otherwise, manned himself for "the terror of life." As Melville wrote in White Jacket, such an outlook "relieves men from nervous
                        anxieties."93 In 1833 Keziah Taylor had delivered the incontestable
                    judgment regarding a woman who had lost a son: "for Her it is Duty to morn but not to
                    Murmur …." Nine years later Keziah herself lay "upon a bed 
                  
                     90 Mary E. Copp Composition Book, December 13, 1848, Daniel Dennison
                            Copp Letters (Manuscript Department, William R. Perkins Library, Duke University, Durham, N.
                            C.).
                  
                     91
                            Works of Emerson, VI, 5.
                  
                     92
                            Ibid., 5, 23.
                  
                     93
                            Works of Melville, VI, 161.
               
                     of death" following a "grate
                    operation" while loved ones were hastly summoned. The 
                        Maine
                     woman's last letter admitted great suffering from what likely was cancer; but
                    she steadfastly maintained fundamental precepts. "I am willing to bair it because it is the
                    hand of God."94
            
            The death of his horse Pep moved Emsley Burgess to melancholy reflection, and then to a variant of
                    Christian stoicism. To himself and to anyone else that might be privy to his ruminations, he gave
                    the assurance that "I do not wish to complain and murmur but at times I cannot help feeling
                    rather discouraged and under the weather for the hand of misfortune has seemed to laid heavy on
                    me." (The 
                        North Carolina
                     farmer mechanic garbled the tense here in redoing what seemed a bit close to murmuring;
                    he first wrote "has laid heavy" but then thought better of it and inserted
                    "seemed to" above the line.) Pep was the sixteenth horse that Burgess had owned
                    and the eighth to die unexpectedly. Over the years he had lost "a great number of fine
                    hogs" and thus had often had difficulty providing meat for the family. And, in the past
                    fifteen years, probably one of every seven days had been crossed off to "fever ague
                    & sick headache." Where the dispensations of 
                        Providence
                     were concerned, Burgess had only a limited and inverted satisfaction that "to
                    bear is to conquer."95
            
            No "pistareen-
                        Providence
                    " came knocking for the Keziah Taylors and Emsley Burgesses. Such folk said
                    little or nothing about being a chosen people, though they did occasionally, when near despair,
                    remind themselves of Hebrews 12:6: "whom the Lord loveth he
                    chasteneth." The question of Romans 8:31—"If God be
                    for us, who can be against us?" —remained for them what it was in the stating, a
                    compounded conjecture. They seemed rarely if ever to confuse 
                        Providence
                     with progress. Indeed, they might have accepted James Malin's later contention
                    that the two categories stood in "direct contradiction."96
                    Surely they would have agreed with one of the spokesmen of their own time, James M'Cosh,
                        
                  
                     94 Abraham and Keziah Taylor to Nicholas Spinney, April 28, 1833,
                            Nancy Taylor to Seth Burgess, April 17, 1842, Abraham and Keziah Taylor to Nancy Taylor,
                            [May] 12, 1842, Spinney-Hunt-Wildes Papers (
                                Maine
                             Historical Society).
                  
                     95 Emsley Burgess Diary, April 4, 1847, Emsley Burgess Papers
                            (Southern Historical Collection, University of 
                                North Carolina
                            ).
                  
                     96 James Malin, The Contriving Brain and the Skillful
                                Hand in the 
                                    United States
                                : Something About History and the Philosophy of History (Lawrence,
                            Kan., 1955), 14.
               
                     when he depicted 
                        Providence
                     throwing man "far back when he seemed to be making the most eager
                        progress."97 Domesticating God and putting Him to the wheels of
                    physical advancement may have been done by someone, somewhere. But the common man of pre-Civil War
                    America showed a noteworthy hesitance to attempt it. In turn, the common man worshipped an
                    inscrutable God, not one who, by vouchsafing large and happy intentions, left "each citizen
                    … bathed in glorious optimism." Indeed, one of the few sources of comfort
                    derived from the not knowing. Writing to an old friend in Savannah, Henry Hewes of 
                        Baltimore
                     noted the political excitement of 1844 and observed that it was well that God alone
                    knew the outcome: "the future is wisely hid from our sight, if it were not so society would
                    be in a much worse condition …."98
            
            "As a general rule," Hawthorne mused in House of the Seven
                    Gables, "
                        Providence
                     seldom vouchsafes to mortals any more than just that degree of encouragement which
                    suffices to keep them at a reasonably full exertion of their powers."99
                    Henry Hewes of 
                        Baltimore
                     and his counterparts around the land would have understood that as sound doctrine, as a
                    gently stated way of explaining how Hepzibah, the "forlorn old maid" at her first
                    doleful and inept day as a shopkeeper, was kept from "despondency." Melville put
                    the same sentiment in grimmer terms; but the lesser sorts would have readily comprehended and
                    appreciated it had they bothered to read. "Heaven," the gloomy mariner remarked in
                        Pierre, had been at least "a little merciful." Perhaps for
                    being "benevolently blinded to the larger arc of the circle which menacingly hems it
                    in," the "soul of man" could never "confront the totality of its
                    wretchedness." "The bitter drug is divided into separate draughts for him; to-day
                    he takes a part of his woe; to-morrow he takes more; and so on, till the last drop is
                        drunk."100
            
            
               
                  97 M'Cosh, Method of Divine Government, 44.
               
                  98 Henry Hewes to William H. Garland, September 6, 1844, William Harris
                        Garland Papers, Southern Historical Collection (University of 
                            North Carolina
                        ).
               
                  99 Nathaniel Hawthorne, The House of the Seven Gables, and
                            The Snow Image and Other Twice-Told Tales, in The Complete Works of
                            Nathaniel Hawthorne (Riverside edition, 12 vols., 
                            Boston
                        , 1883–1903), III, 72.
               
                  100 Herman Melville, Pierre or, The Ambiguities, in Works of Melville, IX, 146.
            
            
            Time and again in treatments of the mood of their age, Hawthorne and Melville — those
                    "Nay-sayers" who saw "shadows in the universe, and knew the power of
                        blackness"101—appear as idiosyncratic counterpoints to
                    the dominant confidence and assertiveness. But, however out of step they may have been with some
                    optimism in elevated circles, their dark brooding about fate and 
                        Providence
                     bore a powerful resemblance to the outlook of humble America. Like the "mute,
                    inglorious 
                        Milton
                    " they saw the workings of 
                        Providence
                     all about them. And like him also they translated that perception, not into glib
                    assertions of mundane ease, comfort, and accomplishment, but into dolorous pronouncements of mundane
                    challenge, hazard, and defeat.
            
               
                  101 Russel B. Nye, "The Search for the Individual:
                        1750–1850," Centennial Review, V (Winter, 1961),
                    19.
            
         
         
         
            A Public "Jollification": The 1859 Women's Rights Petition before the
                    Indiana Legislature
            Pat Creech Scholten∗
            
            Ridicule has long been a weapon used by men against the women's movement for equality.
                    Beginning with the first mention of the rights of women in the legislative proceedings of the state
                    of Indiana in 1844,1 the men of Indiana have contributed their share in the reductio ad absurdum that followed these disturbing new demands for rights and
                    privileges on the part of women. During the 1850s women in Indiana, like women of other states,
                    began their first demands for property rights and suffrage. At that time such ideas appeared so
                    ludicrous to many men that, when confronted with such demands, they gave full rein to their
                    frolicksome natures. The men of Indiana, with decades of rough frontier living and boisterous
                    backwoods humor to guide them, proved no exception.2
            
            The events surrounding the presentation of the women's rights petition to a joint convention
                    of the Indiana General Assembly on January 19, 1859, clearly revealed the prevailing attitudes
                    toward women's rights in Indiana. The incidents arising from this event caused such a
                    public uproar that newspapers carried "long, heavy articles for several days, to the
                    exclusion of news," according to a cantankerous editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana Weekly State Journal.
               3 A 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette reporter described what happened that day as "a farce"
                    and "the most disgraceful affair he ever saw in which ladies were concerned."4 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana 
                     
                        ∗ Pat Creech Scholten is a doctoral candidate in the
                                department of speech communication, Indiana University, 
                                    Bloomington
                                .
                     
                        1 Indiana, House Journal (1843),
                                394–95.
                     
                        2 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana From Its
                                    Explorations to 1922 (reprint edition, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1970), 574–609.
                     
                        3
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Indiana Weekly State Journal, January 27, 1859.
                     
                        4
                                
                                    Cincinnati
                                
                                Daily Gazette, January 20, 1859.
                  
                         Daily State Sentinel editorialized: "We
                    trust, for the sake of woman, ‘the last best gift of God to
                    man,’ that the Legislature of Indiana, will never again give its sanction to such a
                        proceeding."5
            
            What had caused such a public consternation? For the first time in Indiana women had publicly
                    presented a petition calling for women's rights—a petition signed by over one
                    thousand residents of 
                        Wayne County
                    , including signatures of both women and legal (i.e. male) voters.6
                    And if this were not enough, three women had addressed this joint session of the Indiana
                    legislature, the first time that a person of the female sex had spoken before the state legislature.
                    Even more disgraceful were the events following these addresses. According to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     newspapers, once the house adjourned, the gathering turned into "a noisy and
                    foolish meeting" and "an extemporized affair"7 that
                    included "desultory debates" and "free exchange of opinion and
                        sentiment"8 between men, women, women's rights advocates,
                    temperance advocates, the clerk of the house, senators and their constituents, and "an old,
                    half-crazed individual by the name of Alred."9 In the confusion and
                    uproar many tried to leave, but they could not force their way through the crowd, described as a
                    "field of crinoline" and a "surging mass of pantaloons."10 According to the Indiana Daily State Sentinel, the scenes
                    that took place would be "the subject of burlesque and ridicule for months, and maybe for
                    years …."11
            
            Such a turn of events should not have been surprising. In 1844 the assembly received the first
                    women's rights petition asking it to grant the right for married women to own property.12 According to one Indiana historian, however, this merely provoked
                    "some coarse humor, inspired evidently in a barroom," from members of the
                    judiciary committee to which it was referred.13 The committee suggested that
                    "the dear 
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Daily State Sentinel, January 20, 1859.
                  
                     6 The first petition, described as a "slip," was
                            submitted anonymously by "J.L. S. …." For the text see Indiana,
                                House Journal (1843), 394–95.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Weekly State Journal, January 27, 1859.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Daily State Sentinel, January 20, 1859.
                  
                     9
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Daily Gazette, January 20, 1859.
                  
                     10
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Daily State Sentinel, January 20, 1859.
                  
                            11
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     12 Indiana, House Journal (1843), 452.
                  
                     13 Esarey, History of Indiana, 631.
               
                     creatures" exercise "a small portion of that
                    acuteness for which the eastern portion of the union [the husband] is so justly celebrated"
                    and "provide for the disunion of their real and paraphernal property" before
                    marriage; but, the committee also hinted darkly that "such preliminaries" might
                    undermine "unanimity in the union." They advised instead that "the good
                    old mode of a loving and abiding confidence" in their husbands would "make the
                    union a unit." In reporting to the speaker the committee concluded that
                    "though strongly inclined to think that women are angels, yet they cannot
                    forget that angels may be devils: they therefore deem it
                    inexpedient to legislate in the premises, and ask to be discharged from the further consideration
                        thereof."14 This report was not concurred in and was referred to a
                    select committee which seems never to have reported. Even so, in 1846 women were given the right to
                    make wills,15 and women's property at time of marriage was exempt from
                    use to pay a husband's debts.16 Other than these concessions, little
                    had changed by 1859 either in law or attitude.
            Logan Esarey described the men of Indiana during the 1850s as "rough, outspoken and
                    boisterous." And the subject of women's rights seemed particularly to have brought
                    out the worst in them. Esarey remarked that "even so gentle a man as Berry
                    Sulgrove" (editor of the Indiana Weekly State Journal) spoke of the
                    meeting of the Women's Rights Convention in 1854 which he attended "with a
                    coarseness not common to him."17 Esarey wrote further that
                    "The women seemed like peasants of the sixteenth century pleading for liberty and the
                    attitude of the press and the members of the General Assembly was not such as one can speak with
                        pride."18 This certainly described the
                        "jollification"19 surrounding the presentation of the
                    women's rights petition in 1859.
            Historical accounts of this event fail to mention the disturbing incidents connected with this
                    presentation. Generally such reports relate that Mary F. Thomas presented the petition 
                  
                     14 Indiana, House Journal (1843), 452.
                  
                     15 Indiana, Laws (1846), chapter 6.
                  
                     16 Indiana, Senate Journal (1846), 141.
                  
                     17 Esarey, History of Indiana, 600, 632.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 632.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Daily State Sentinel, January 20, 1859. In its report, the
                            newspaper quoted a "member from a northern county" who labeled the
                            proceedings "a jollification."
               
                    
                    
                  MARY F. THOMAS
                  
                  Courtesy author
                and gave an address, thus becoming the first woman speaker before the Indiana
                        legislature.20 One account notes that the joint session listened
                        "politely."21 None describe the scenes recorded by
                    contemporary newspapers of what took place when the house adjourned on Wednesday, January 19,
                        1859.22
            
            The Indiana House Journal recorded that on that date the General Assembly in a
                    joint convention gathered to hear Thomas read and present a petition "asking the
                    Legislature to grant to women the same rights in property as men, and also the right of
                    suffrage." The house then resolved itself into a committee of the whole to consider the
                    petition of the women and recommended that it be the special order of 
                  
                     20 See for example Lillian O'Connor, Pioneer
                                Women Orators: Rhetoric in the Ante-Bellum Reform Movement (
                                New York
                            , 1954), 94; Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, and Matilda Joslyn Gage,
                            eds., The History of Woman Suffrage (
                                Rochester
                            , 1889), 309.
                  
                     21 Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era:
                                1850–1880 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965), 36.
                  
                     22 See the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Daily State Sentinel, the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Weekly State Journal, and the 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette.
                  
               
                     the day for the following Friday.23 This
                    straightfoward account gave no hint that this was not an ordinary day in the usual business of the
                    legislature.
            An unashamedly biased account by the Indiana Daily State Sentinel of what actually
                    happened captured the excitement in the air: "early after dinner yesterday, crowds of
                    curious spectators, among whom were mingled a few who felt an interest in the
                    movement, were seen moving toward the State House." Hours before the session began the hall
                    was filled. The newspaper conjured a picture of the members of the house, who in gentlemenly fashion
                    had relinquished their seats to the ladies. Much "masculine humanity," however,
                    was crowded out by the expansive skirts of the day and forced to stand in aisles, lobbies, and
                    galleries "merely looking on, wondering, and it may be, wishing." According to the
                    reporter, "Every man that had a stand point determined to keep it, and there was a perfect
                    unity of ideas between the sexes, for the women tenaciously held to their places." Only by
                    great physical effort did the president of the house succeed in reaching the speaker's
                    stand and calling the convention to order.24
            
            The verbatim report of the legislative proceedings printed in the State Sentinel
                    documented the levity which set the tone for the day. After the house was called to order, there was
                    an unaccountable delay before the women petitioners entered. The exchanges between the legislators
                    revealed tension and uneasiness in the chambers. John S. Davis declared that "This is a
                    grave and important matter." Since a lack of space and chairs prevented a number of
                    senators from seeing or hearing, Davis made a special plea for a seat for the senator from 
                        Vigo County
                     "as the only bachelor in that body," which provoked laughter and
                    cheers. Someone suggested that while they waited for the women, the best looking bachelor address
                    the assembly. There were cries for "Nebeker, of 
                        Warren
                    " who denied bachelorhood, but recommended instead "Edwards, from
                    Vigo." Edwards then offered to waive his "pretensions for the gentleman from 
                        Warren
                    — to give him an opportunity to exhibit his personal beauty." The
                    laughter subsided only "under the hammer of the Chair." 
                  
                     23 Indiana, House Journal (1859), 157.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Daily State Sentinel, January 20, 1859.
               
                     The women speakers then "came forward and took seats
                    at the Speaker's table."25
            
            Thomas was conscious of the jocular atmosphere of the gathering, and before reading her petition and
                    her address, she made an emotional appeal for a hearing: "Permit me, friends, to say a word
                    before reading our petition. Brothers and sisters, we have not come here to exhibit ourselves as a
                    show to our brothers of the General Assembly. We have come here feeling deeply the need of that
                    which we petition of you; and I beg of you to receive us as becomes our cause and your position in
                    this place." She then read the petition and an address in writing, described variously as
                    "a very good speech, delivered, however, in a low tone of voice"26 and as "an interesting and able address."27 Later
                    historians described it as "an admirable statement of the plea for suffrage" and
                    "a thoughtful, apparently well-prepared address."28
            
            Like other feminist appeals of that era, Thomas' speech was built on logical argument, with
                    a separate section devoted to emotional appeals.29 She argued from the
                    underlying premise that what is right for the goose is right for the gander: "If the
                    exercise of this right [of citizenship] is necessary to the perfect development of man's
                    mind and whole being; if he feels dwarfed, intellectually, by being deprived of that right, will not
                    the same argument apply to woman?"30 Thomas then used a second argument
                    not heard in the country for many years but used very effectively by early feminists:
                    "Taxation without Representation."31 Since a woman
                    "is held 
                  
                            25
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            26
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     27 Senator George K. Steele made this judgment in a resolution
                            following the women's speeches. See Indiana, Senate Journal
                            (1859), 185.
                  
                     28 Esarey, History of Indiana, 632n;
                            O'Connor, Pioneer Women Orators, 94.
                  
                     29 See O'Connor, Pioneer Women Orators,
                            161. A full text of Thomas' speech is printed in the Indiana, Senate
                                Journal (1859), 186–90, in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Weekly State Journal, January 27, 1859, and in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Daily State Sentinel, January 21, 1859. The Journal and State Sentinel both ran the following note from Thomas
                            along with her speech: "I deem it due to myself and the cause, to say, that in
                            preparing this address for the press, it must necessarily be very imperfect from the hasty
                            manner in which it was written in the first place, and much of it not written at
                            all."
                  
                     30 Indiana, Senate Journal (1859), 187.
                  
                     31 O'Connor, Pioneer Women Orators, 184;
                            Indiana, Senate Journal (1859), 189.
               
                     amenable to the laws of her
                    country," she had the same natural, inalienable right as men to express herself on
                    questions "of vital interest to her."32
            
            Thomas argued that the times and public opinion had changed. The very fact that she spoke before the
                    legislature, she declared, was proof enough. A few years ago, she continued, the legislature of
                    Indiana would not have granted "the respectful attention it now does, in this Hall,
                    dedicated as it is to learning, talent and wisdom …." Then, in a statement that
                    would later prove ironical, Thomas said: "Men are not now shocked at a woman speaking in
                    public," and are "constrained to admit" that many women can achieve
                    "deeds of noble daring."33 To prove her point Thomas then
                    listed the achievements of fourteen famous women, ranging from Maria Michell's discovery of
                    stars to Harriet Hosmer's sculpture, to Emma Willard's writing of schoolbooks, to
                    the preaching of Lucretia Mott and Antoinette L. Blackwell.34 In order to show
                    that these women were not exceptional, Thomas then mentioned the achievements of professional women,
                    including "last, though not least, your humble petitioner with hundreds of other lady
                    physicians." She praised the achievements of all women during the monetary crisis of the
                    previous year, which in one respect had "been a blessing to women, by calling to the sphere
                    of usefulness many who shrank, in former times, from assuming any responsibility." Times
                    had indeed changed, Thomas maintained, for "they who once denounced us as fanatics, have,
                    through absolute necessity and trial, learned to feel and to acknowledge that woman has not all the
                    rights she needs."35
            
            Thomas concluded her arguments with two assertions familiar to the women's liberation
                    movement. She first declared that men would benefit equally with women. "The true interests
                    of the sexes are so intimately interwoven with each other that one cannot suffer without the other
                    suffering also." Secondly, Thomas insisted that a woman's development as a human
                    being would enhance rather than diminish her maternal qualities…. "there need be
                    no fear of woman neglecting her maternal duties," Thomas maintained, for "the
                        
                  
                     32 Indiana, Senate Journal (1859), 187.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 188.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., 188–89.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., 189.
               
                     more women become acquainted with human life and prepare to
                    discharge its responsibilities, the more interest they will feel in carrying out all the relations
                    of life."36
            
            Bringing her speech to a close, Thomas quoted Samuel Adams' statement that taxation without
                    representation reduced free subjects to the state of "tributary slaves." She
                    rested her argument confidently on "the verdict of all candid minds; for, having taken our
                    stand upon the broad basis of woman's undeniable humanity, and claimed from thence its
                    rights as a matter of strict justice, we have virtually forestalled all answer and all
                    objections." Finally Thomas pleaded: 
                        however some of this large and attentive audience may consider me out of woman's
                            sphere in thus addressing you, I feel it right to say that not one who has heard these
                            thoughts expressed, but feel a living response in the inmost recesses of their souls, and we
                            ask kindly to consider your duty in reference to the matter, and act accordingly.37
                  
                    
            
            According to the State Sentinel, when Thomas' address was concluded the
                    presiding officer introduced the second woman at the speaker's table, Mary B. Birdsall. The
                        Sentinel described her address as "a very clear and logical plea in
                    behalf of the right of suffrage in woman"; but no copy of the speech exists, despite the
                    legislative resolution that the addresses of both women be printed in the city newspaper.38 The State Journal declared that "we cannot make
                    room for more than one" and published only Thomas' address.39
                    After the conclusion of Birdsall's speech, Agnes Cook, the third woman to speak before the
                    joint convention, presented an extemporaneous address on temperance, arguing that "the
                    enfranchised woman" would be more effective in the cause of temperance. According to the
                        Sentinel, Cook made an "allusion to the unchivalric remark of one of
                    the orators of the State Temperance Convention yesterday, to this effect: ‘We will hold
                    the ladies’ bonnets whilst they shall fight the doggeries.'" Since
                    Cook's speech closed the proceedings it could very well have set the tone for what happened
                    shortly afterwards.40
            
            
               
                  36
                        Ibid., 189–90.
               
                  37
                        Ibid., 190.
               
                  38
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana Daily State Sentinel, January 20, 1859.
               
                  39
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana Weekly State Journal, January 27, 1859.
               
                  40
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana Daily State Sentinel, January 20, 1859.
            
            
            After Cook's address, the presiding officer declared adjournment and the senators returned
                    to their chambers. The State Sentinel gave this colorful account of what followed:
                        
                        The Senate having retired from the Hall, and Mr. Speaker Gordon having resumed the chair, the
                            House should have been the House again. The ladies, however, having possession of the floor,
                            knew their rights, and dared and did maintain them. From the seats where grave heads have
                            for years bent in thought, bright eyes sent forth bewildering darts, glowing cheeks blushed
                            in loveliness, and red, rich lips smiled bewitchingly. In such a sea of all that is lovely
                            and enchanting, business was not to be thought of—that rigid systematic business
                            that legislation demands —and, accordingly, after several ineffectual efforts to
                            do something, a member gallantly moved that the House adjourn, and that the meeting resolve
                            itself into a love-feast. The motion was carried by acclamation— the
                            Speaker's hammer fell, and the feast of reason and the flow of soul began.41
                  
                    
            
            In recounting the progression of events, the newspaper continued: "How shall we describe it?
                    We abandon the effort in despair, and content ourselves with giving a few brief incidents, which may
                    be taken as a sample of the entire affair." The first incident involved a senator and his
                    constituent. The senator, according to the newspaper, termed the proceedings a
                    "jollification" which caused one of his female constituents to make
                    "severe threats of dire vengeance." The newspaper reported that "The Hon.
                    gentleman rose and took it all back. He would call it any name the lady desired—it was
                    not material what."42
            
            Next, the clerk of the house, R.J. Ryan, made a speech "giving the ladies some wholesome
                    advice in his own way." He declared that "Already everything was conceded to the
                    ladies. He had to buy a new suit of clothes because he had lately to step so often in the gutters,
                    to let the ladies have the clean dry side-walk." This began what the newspaper described as
                    "desultory debate" and "out-pouring of patriotism." "An
                    old gentleman, Mr. Alred," aroused by this statement, proclaimed that he was happy that
                    "Dick had spent some money with the tailors, for it kept just that amount out of the tills
                    of the grog-shops!" Alred then proceeded to describe the evils of intemperance:
                    "the black eyes, swolen [sic] lips and numerous noses he had seen knocked
                    up." And 
                  
                            41
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            42
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     he declared that "He had never, however, seen but
                    three women in that fix. A lady present coincided exactly with Mr. Alred" and the
                    "free exchange of opinion and sentiment began."43
            
            After declaring that "We have no idea that one out of every ten of the ladies present had
                    any sympathy with the movement," the State Sentinel created the
                    impression that the ladies drawn to the meeting "merely from [innocent] curiosity"
                    were helplessly trapped by the crowds against their will and assured its readers that they
                    "heartily wished themselves out of the scrape …." The newspaper
                    concluded that the idea of the joint session was a foolish one, that the presentation of the
                    petition did not advance the cause, and that the legislature of Indiana, "for the sake of
                        woman," should never again "give its sanction to such a
                        proceeding."44
            
            The Indiana Weekly State Journal commented on the events surrounding the
                    presentation of the petition in a different, more tolerant manner. In an editorial the Journal attacked a correspondent of the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette for labeling the joint convention "a farce" and
                    describing the meeting that followed it as "the most disgraceful affair he ever saw in
                    which ladies were concerned." The editors disavowed any sympathy with the women's
                    rights movement: "We think if the women were granted all they ask, they would soon wish,
                    like the bricklayer who broke his leg in falling from a scaffold and begged Jupiter to suspend the
                    laws of gravitation in his case, that they were restored to their former condition." But
                    even though nine out of ten women were "indifferent or adverse to the rights their
                    lamenting sisters" desired, the editors continued, "at the same time we
                    don't see that anything is gained for truth by ridiculing the efforts of those who desire
                    such rights." The editors placed the blame on the legislature and not the women. "They did not ask that the Hall should be turned into a
                        show."45
            
            The Journal's true sympathies, however, clearly showed up in its comments
                    prefacing Thomas' speech. The editors were reluctant and surly about printing
                    Thomas' address and did not reproduce Birdsall's speech at all. As a matter of
                    fact, they claimed to be generous for agreeing to print 
                  
                            43
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            44
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     45
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Weekly State Journal, January 27, 1859.
               
                     one address. "Indeed, if it were not that t[h]e
                    novelty of the movement, and the popular curiosity excited by it, as well as its intrinsic interest,
                    made a publication necessary, we should feel indi[s]posed to surrender so much space to it, after
                    having had our columns crowded with long, heavy articles for several days, to the exclusion of
                        news."46
            
            Alongside Thomas' speech the Journal also published a letter addressed
                    "To the Ladies of Indiana" and signed "John Young." Expressing
                    popular opinion of the day and devastating in his ridicule,47 Young confessed
                    that he was attracted by curiosity to the legislative hall where "one of your
                    number" read an address. He heard the address called beautiful by a member of the house but
                    had not been able to hear a single sentence himself. 
                        The low tone of voice … demonstrated very satisfactorily that woman is not in her
                            true sphere when she attempts to address a large assembly. Here was a grand occasion for you
                            to show that in power of voice, self command, and declamatory power, you are equal to man.
                            You chose the readers and the speakers, and are fairly responsible for the
                            effort—yet the address was not heard by one third of the people who filled the
                                hall.48
                  
                    
            
            Further, Young declared, the women were presumptuous in claiming to speak for the women of Indiana.
                    "Why, dear ladies," he wrote, "half the people of Indiana are of your
                    sex." Surely, if women wanted more rights, they could ask for them in the bed chamber or at
                    breakfast. But "we rarely hear a word of it." Young recalled how pained he was to
                    hear that the ladies threatened to take law in their own hands—laws that protect their
                    marriage vows, chastity, peace, and prosperity. "These very extravagancies, ladies, show
                    that impulse and feeling prevail too much in your nature to fit you for the cool calculations of
                    statesmanship." Women had already been granted property rights; women did not need the
                    ballot, for when they voted in church meetings, they usually "vote with, not against their
                    husbands." Young added the 
                  
                            46
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     47 One guess is that he was the same John Young who was nominated for
                            superintendent of public instruction in 1858 and who is mentioned (once as writer of a
                            letter to a newspaper) in Mildred C. Stoler, "The Democratic Element in the New
                            Republican Party in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXVI
                            (September, 1940), 191, 194, 195, 196, 199, 207.
                  
                     48
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Weekly State Journal, January 27, 1859.
               
                     often used male criticism of feminists: "I know what
                    is the matter with you women's rights ladies!" he declared.
                    "You don't rule your husbands by love as the rest of the women of Indiana do
                        …."49
            
            Young advised the women to go home and take care of their husbands and children and "see if
                    your homes will not be a paradise, and your rights all safe in the true love of your good
                    man." Besides, women would soon be cured of politics; rather than elevating politics, as
                    they claimed, women would "soon be corrupted, your beauty will fade, your virtue would
                    become weak and vacillating." Instead, Young recommended that "You can now be the
                    mothers of a noble race of American citizens …." He predicted that if they chose
                    the path they now sought they would leave behind a weak race "carried away with the love of
                    novelty and change," and somewhat in the spirit of the French Revolution all would
                    "soon perish in fraternal blood." He concluded that "angels might envy
                    you in your glorious work," for "The mission of woman is indeed a glorious one. To
                    sweeten man's rugged life, to soften all his sorrows, to share and rejoice with him in his
                    joys, to train the rising race, to stamp the loved image of the father's character upon the
                    rising boy, to raise up the future mother, and fill their hearts with love and goodness and
                    wisdom." In closing Young declared that "I love you all very much, but I love my
                    country more." He had a particular love for one woman, he assured the ladies, but
                    "I want that one to forget her own rights in thinking of mine, then I think I will not fail
                    to protect and cherish her."50
            
            So ended the public discussion of the events surrounding the presentation of the women's
                    rights petition to the joint session of the Indiana state legislature. Thomas, undaunted by this
                    ridicule and buffoonery, continued a full and rich life, working with the suffrage, temperance, and
                    abolitionist movements.51 Not until 1871, twelve years later, did Indiana women
                    again address the state legislature on women's 
                  
                            49
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            50
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     51 For biographical accounts of Thomas' accomplishments as a
                            physician and leader of reform movements, see Stanton, Anthony, and Gage, History of Woman Suffrage, 314; D. W. H. Kemper, A Medical History of
                                the State of Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1911), 348; and History of 
                                    Wayne County
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 606–608.
               
                     rights.52 Two women who had been
                    instrumental in presenting the petition in 1859, Amanda Way and Emma Swank, addressed the joint
                    convention "upon the question of Female Suffrage." A joint senate resolution was
                    drawn up, proposing an amendment to the state constitution that would confer the right to vote to
                    women over the age of twenty-one. After due deliberation, the resolution was put before the state
                    senate where there was a last minute move that the word "white" be inserted
                    preceding the word "female" wherever it occurred in the resolution.53 This joint resolution was not adopted. The women of Indiana, along with women in other
                    states, discovered over the next fifty years that women could not hope to win the vote by the
                    "states route." It would take a federal amendment to the Constitution which could
                    be impersonally enacted and enforced.
            
               
                  52 Indiana, Senate Journal (1871), 235.
               
                  53
                        Ibid., 644.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Indiana Place Names. By Ronald L. Baker and Marvin Carmony. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1975. Pp. xxii, 196. Bibliography. $7.95.)
            Traveling over any one of the many highways that crisscross the state, the hurrying traveler has
                    little awareness of the numerous communities and historic places that collectively reflect the
                    historic growth of Indiana. He may note Nevada Mills next exit right, or Boonville ten miles south
                    of exit 10, but this tells him little about the place, its age, the origin of the name, the folk
                    legends and anecdotes associated with the place, to say nothing of the local pronunciation of the
                    place name. Who but a native would realize he was passing [ne vā de 'milz]. Even
                    the less hurried traveler who finds the older state and county roads a more pleasant way to travel
                    will be no more aware of a place's characteristics unless he stops and inquires.
            Ronald L. Baker's and Marvin Carmony's Indiana Place Names is
                    more than a handy reference for travelers. Including as it does historic, linguistic, geographic,
                    and folkloristic data, it will be welcomed by them and all who are interested in the historic
                    development of Indiana. The dictionary contains 2,271 place names, arranged alphabetically, with
                    cross references provided for current alternate names and local transfers, i.e., names borrowed from
                    other places and transferred to Indiana. Each entry includes information concerning origin of the
                    name, spelling, and pronunciation, and, whenever possible or relevant, folk legends and anecdotes
                    associated with the place. Eight feature labels or types of places are used: state, county, county
                    seat, city, town, village, stream, and lake. Other types of features have been excluded. Location is
                    provided by county and by the locational symbols as found in the current "Official Highway
                    Map" of Indiana.
            Baker's and Carmony's dictionary of place names is not a complete survey of Indiana
                    names. Such a survey, although now underway as part of the Place-Name Survey of the 
                        United States
                    , will take many years, and the results will go far beyond the limited entries of this
                    single volume. However, as a prologue to a more definitive study, the work has much to commend it as
                    an informative and convenient reference. In categorizing as it does the numerous sources from which
                    Indiana's pioneers drew their place names, this survey reveals that Hoosiers were a sober
                    lot. Fanciful and humorous place names are not at all common in the state. Only Santa  Claus, a town in 
                        Spencer County
                    , clearly reflects humorous motivations. Hoosiers may have been sober, but one
                    explanation maintained by some for the state nickname suggests not all practiced sobriety.
                    "[T]here was a lot of fighting in early Indiana taverns, and the frontiers-men scratched,
                    gouged, and bit—often biting off noses and ears. Frequently following a fight a settler
                    found an ear on the sawdust floor of a tavern and asked, ‘Whose
                    ear?’" (p. 72).
            Recognizing the selective character of this survey, with its emphasis on current names, it is still
                    surprising to find missing from the bibliography most of the extant early gazetteers.
                    Chamberlain's 1849 gazetteer is referenced, but not John Scott's The
                        Indiana Gazetteer (1826), Douglas' and Maguire's The Indiana
                        Gazetteer (1833), or George W. Hawe's Indiana State Gazetteer
                    (1860). Reference to these gazetteers would have made some of the entries more complete. The 
                        North Vernon
                     entry, for example, carries no mention that an early name for the community was
                    "Tripton," as reported in Hawe's 1860 gazetteer. Other names for entries
                    in the survey that are reported in Ha we but not shown in the survey entries are
                    "Groves" for Fairview in 
                        Fayette County
                    , "Clifty" for 
                        Milford
                     in 
                        Decatur County
                    , "Otter Creek" for 
                        Nebraska
                     in 
                        Jennings County
                    , and "Noah" for 
                        Marion
                     in 
                        Decatur County
                    .
            The complexities of working with over two thousand names in thirteen different categories, with seven
                    variables of information, make such lapses understandable. More critical for the student of places
                    than the layman, they do not detract from the general value of the study. Most important, a
                    beginning has been made in the study of place names in Indiana.
            
               Tri-State University, 
                            Angola
                        , Ind. Donald Zimmer
         
         
            
               Hoosier Caravan: A Treasury of Indiana Life and Lore. Selected, with comment, by
                    R. E. Banta. New and enlarged edition. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1975. Pp. xx, 620. Regular edition, $8.95;
                    deluxe, $10.95.)
            Hoosiers and Texans are soulmates; they enjoy talking and writing about their states. Neither is
                    overcome with modesty. The talkers and the writers can, by a minor miracle, turn the faults of the
                    inhabitants of their states into virtues.  And, indeed, most
                    persons reading about 
                        Texas
                     and Indiana are carried along with this concept.
            R. E. Banta, the editor of a newly revised and enlarged anthology of literature written by authors
                    from Indiana should have no trouble getting people to join his Hoosier Caravan.
                    The selections, amusingly and informatively introduced by the editor, reveal the patterns of
                    thinking, loves, fears, and joys of both authors and protagonists. They engage deeply in
                    life's experiences. Emotions run high, humor is sharp (albeit sardonic at times), and
                    thinking is profound.
            The imaginative authors from Indiana follow no trend. One passes from a reading of Kurt
                    Vonnegut's "Times Change," a poignant return to high school in Indiana
                    (viewed as symbolic of the American experience), to the dramatic excerpt from The Desperate Hours
                    (1955) by Joseph Hayes. In a passage from his Raintree County (1948) Ross
                    Lockridge explores the heightened passions and ambitions of men during an antebellum fair in
                    southern Indiana. His emotionally intense panorama contrasts sharply with the wry irony employed by
                    Booth Tarkington to chronicle changing urban values, as experienced by his Magnificent
                        Ambersons (1918).
            Many selections are taken from history and folklore. One subdivision entitled "
                        Utopia
                    , 
                        Posey County
                    , Indiana," describes what editor Banta calls "the strange doings at
                    Harmonie" (p. 167). Strange "doings," perhaps, but true history: George
                    Browning Lockwood and Marguerite Young skillfully unravel the Rappite and Owenite experiences.
            Folklore, however, may be the best means of arriving at the truth. An engaging tale of a tattered
                    devil-wizard named Harshish, from Samuel Ginger's Reminiscences (1905),
                    gives numerous insights into the customs and minds of Indiana's early settlers. Two of
                    Indiana's finest humorists, George Ade and Kin Hubbard, present legendary Hoosiers but
                    harness their creations to provide amusing and penetrating commentary on contemporary life.
                    Hubbard's Abe Martin is the delightful apotheosis of common sense, while Ade recounts the
                    adventures of the country bumpkin in the metropolis.
            It becomes difficult to single out authors when one knows that they have already been selected by a
                    first rate editor. One can simply list the new authors added to the 1976 edition: David Wagoner,
                    Howard Johnson, Kurt Vonnegut,  Jr., Joseph Hayes, William
                    Edward Nelson, John Woods, Samuel Yellen, Cornelia Otis Skinner, and Bob Collins.
            The book is enjoyable. A Hoosier emerges—one who is human, full of intelligent common
                    sense, and a sometime sophisticate who understands sophistry but chooses not to use it.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Joyce G. Williams
         
         
            
               Contest for Empire, 1500–1775: Proceedings of an Indiana American
                        Revolution Bicentennial Symposium. Edited by John B. Elliott. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1975. Pp. xii, 95. Notes, map. Paperbound,
                    $2.00.)
            This neatly printed, readable book consists of six essays. With the exception of the first, which is
                    intended as an introduction, each essay is commendably documented, some from original, unprinted
                    material difficult to locate. In this respect Jack M. Sosin's essay on "Britain
                    and the Ohio Valley, 1760–1775" deserves special
                    recognition. Underlying all six essays is the suggestion that three centuries of international
                    history preceded the Revolution and were relevant to it. The editor makes this point crystal clear
                    in his prefatory remarks. It is a fallacy, still doggedly pursued by many historians, to treat the
                    Revolution as though originating in quarrels over taxes and constitutional arguments suddenly coming
                    to the fore in the interwar years, 1763–1775.
            It is good to see an essay by an anthropologist included in the series. James A. Brown's
                    paper, "The Impact of the European Presence on Indian Culture," provides broad and
                    thorough analysis of that topic. John J. TePaske's paper, "Spanish Indian Policy
                    and the Struggle for Empire in the Southeast, 1513–1776," follows a similar
                    theme, showing how the French, but more especially the Anglo-Americans, altered the whole structure
                    of aboriginal society. Many factors other than firearms and liquor caused the Indians to lose their
                    independence. They grew completely dependent on European goods, "so covetous" of
                    the latter "that they would go to any lengths to procure them" (p. 36). George A.
                    Rawlyk's essay, "The ‘Rising French Empire’ in the
                        Ohio Valley and Old Northwest," is refreshingly informative.
                    Rawlyk, who comes from Queen's University and understands the Canadian French, rejects the
                    errors of Parkman, the 
                        New England
                    
                     historian, and comprehends Canadian fears of Anglo-American
                    encroachments in the interior. Rawlyk shows that the rising French empire rested on false strategy
                    due in part to complicated relations with the Indians. Building on his excellent book, Whitehall and the Wilderness (1961), Sosin shows how traders and land speculators
                    consistently frustrated efforts of the British government to put in practice a policy regarding the
                    trans-Allegheny West. As he points out, the American government after 1783 tried the same policy but
                    was beaten by the same forces. In the sixth and last essay, "The Advance of the
                    Anglo-American Frontier, 1700–1783," Thomas D. Clark takes a realistic view of
                    the "all-but-faceless horde" of westward moving settlers who only later
                    "achieved identity in the tracings of family genealogists" (p. 80).
            Each in its own way these essays discount the Revolutionary mythology so dear to the hearts of 
                        New England
                     historians.
            
               Callison College, University of the Pacific Richard W. Van Alstyne
         
         
            
               A New Age Now Begins: A People's History of the American Revolution. By
                    Page Smith. Two volumes. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1976. Pp. x, ix, 1899. Maps, bibliographical note, index.
                    Set, $24.95.)
            These handsome volumes are fresh and unpretentious in style and monumental in scope. One hundred
                    twenty nine chapters, though not so designated, travel the "long journey," as
                    Smith calls it, from Jamestown through the Revolution. Some fifty-five of these chapters are not
                    specifically military in content; rather they maintain and sharpen the reader's awareness
                    of Revolution related events. In keeping with his "ingrained prejudice against
                    footnotes" (p. 1833), Smith provides none—the absence of which the professional
                    may oft times regret, though there is never any doubt about the author's command of the
                    literature. A brief bibliographical note reviews the primary sources used in the work. Twenty-four
                    maps of major military campaigns, compiled and drawn by an unidentified Colonel Carrington, provide
                    limited usefulness. Proofreading errors are few.
            There is much more than just historical narrative to entertain and instruct. Smith chides, even
                    scores, fellow historians  for advancing traditional
                    interpretations with which he disagrees. He often, almost as an aside, moralizes with the reader.
                    Occasionally he adds a touch of psychohistory as illustrated by comments about Generals Gates and
                    Charles Lee (p. 1417). Colorful vignettes of many personalities, among them Francis Marion (p.
                    1437), provide an intimate flavor to the discourse. Smith admits that "Monday-morning
                    generaling like Monday-morning quarterbacking is a tempting exercise" (p. 795), and
                    proceeds to yield on numerous occasions to the temptation. In studied fashion he engages in
                    probables; he sometimes indulges in "second-guessing," and
                    "what-ifs." These "extras" develop a lively, thoughtful, and
                    provocative mix.
            Of course, all the differences of opinion existing among historians about the Revolutionary era are
                    not here laid to rest. George III continues to be a villain "though a very decent villain
                    as villains go" (p. 1823). The British, at least parliament and the ministry, manage to be
                    arrogant and inefficient and to blunder consistently and misjudge reality—not exactly a
                    Gipsonian interpretation. To announce simply that Robert Morris, the so called financier of the
                    Revolution, "made a great fortune in that role" (p. 1366), ignores and discredits
                    his total contributions to the Revolutionary effort. Those who thought Francis Vigo was Italian
                    might be surprised to read about "a Spaniard named Vigo" (p. 1200). Loyalists are
                    given rather short shrift and fare rather badly—suggesting that here at least historians
                    tend to follow victorious armies.
            Smith shows how "a loyal British subject [had] been changed into a furious rebel"
                    (p. 14). He further seeks to explain "how this collection of astonishingly diverse
                    individuals, from a dozen countries and twice as many religious sects and denominations, spread out
                    over a vast territory and coalesced into a nation and eventually into a united people" (p.
                    46), and he adheres to and persuasively develops that subject. Finally he fulfills his promise
                    "to listen carefully and to reflect upon the meaning" (p. 1838) of the words and
                    actions of the men and women involved in the events.
            Since Smith contends that "it was the rising of the people … that was probably
                    the most striking fact of the American Revolution" (pp. 270–71), one is not
                    surprised to find him writing: "it has been my purpose to take it [the Revolution]  away from the academic historians, the professors and return it
                    to you [the people]" (p. 1815). Well, the people have it, but the professors, too, will
                    find this "long journey" a profitable, at times exciting, and often a novel
                    experience.
            
               Indiana State University, 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                Donald B. Scheick
         
         
            
               Eagle and Sword: The Federalists and the Creation of the Military Establishment in
                        America, 1783–1802. By Richard H. Kohn. (
                        New York
                    : The Free Press, 1975. Pp. xx, 443. Maps, illustrations, notes, essay on sources,
                    index. $13.95.)
            Time has a way of erasing blemishes and romanticizing the unromantic. Never has this process been
                    more apparent than in this era of America's bicentennial. Bicentennial fever, with its
                    alarming symptoms of verbal inflation and hero worship has struck. As a result millions of Americans
                    are busy paying homage to the Augustan age of the Founding Fathers when saintly giants ruled.
            Richard H. Kohn is not one of these uncritical celebrators. A generation or two ago Kohn might have
                    been called, with some distaste, a "debunker," implying that he had selectively
                    used evidence to undermine maliciously a well accepted "truth." In fact, of
                    course, Kohn is no debunker but a careful historian whose book traces in well documented detail the
                    beginnings of the American military establishment.
            That America needed an army after the Revolution was apparent, but what kind, militia or regular, and
                    of what size? On one side the Nationalists (later the Federalists) favored a strong central
                    government and a regular army. Their opponents, the Anti-Federalists, saw in a regular army a
                    potential weapon of dreadful tyranny and raised the old Whig cry of "No Standing
                    Army."
            It is likely that many Americans today share in the teleological fallacy that history is about the
                    successful and dismiss the notion that the Federalists ever planned to use the army for political
                    purposes simply because they never did. Kohn points out that this is not the case and that some high
                    Federalists, 
                        Hamilton
                     included, were caught up in such a frenzy of suspicion about Republican activities in
                    the 1790s that they might well have used the army to suppress their  opposition. Their failure, according to Kohn, was due to an inability
                    to understand either popular sympathies or the determined opposition of John Adams. In the end the
                    Federalists destroyed themselves. From that political wreck the Republicans did salvage the army but
                    one clearly nonpolitical and under civilian control.
            The political machinations involving so many people make this a complex tale. It is to
                    Kohn's credit that he manages, despite the mass of information, to make the story an
                    interesting and at times absorbing one. Ironically, one of the weakest portions of the book is the
                    last chapter. This is the same one that in his acknowledgments the author maintains
                    "materially improved the book." The chapter is forced and repetitious. It should
                    also be added that in such a well founded scholarly work the use of brief introductions for each
                    part which read as though they had been drawn from a John Barth novel is both affected and
                    unnecessary.
            
               Northeastern University, 
                            Boston
                        
                William M. Fowler, Jr.
         
         
            
               The Presidency of John Adams. By Ralph Adams Brown. (Lawrence: The University
                    Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1975. Pp. x, 248. Frontispiece, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $12.00.)
            As a volume in the American Presidency Series, The Presidency of John Adams is
                    intended to provide "historians and the general reading public" with an
                    "interesting, scholarly" assessment of John Adams' administration. It
                    will serve the second audience more effectively than the first.
            On balance, the book offers an informed, well organized, and readable political narrative of
                    Adams' term as president. It is essentially a synthesis of the secondary literature for the
                    period, though Ralph Adams Brown does offer some interpretive suggestions of his own, particularly
                    as they relate to Adams' handling of the presidential office. Perhaps the most debatable of 
                        Brown
                    's theses is the assertion that during the heat of political argumentation over
                    the Alien and Sedition acts, Adams remained conspicuously calm and level headed. Certainly Adams
                    deserves credit for finally steering a course away from war with 
                        France
                    . And probably throughout his term he hoped that war could be avoided on terms
                    acceptable  to the 
                        United States
                    . There is still considerable evidence, however, that during the spring and summer of
                    1798 Adams became caught up in the post XYZ, anti-French uproar and that as president he contributed
                    to the climate of opinion out of which the Federalists' internal security legislation
                    emerged. Nor is it really as evident as 
                        Brown
                     suggests that during Adams' lengthy absences from the seat of government
                    during the summers of 1798 and 1799, he was effectively in charge of his own administration. These
                    points of interpretation aside, 
                        Brown
                    's book provides a full and generally reliable description of the major
                    political events of the later 1790s and of Adams' performance in the presidency.
            Still, the volume does not do as much as one might wish. The reader's understanding of
                    Adams' behavior would have been substantially increased if greater attention had been given
                    to his prepresidential years, for these constituted most of his public career and provided the
                    context for his presidential activities. It is difficult to understand Adams as president without
                    knowing more than the book tells about the understandings of America's republican
                    experiment that Adams drew from his experiences during the Revolution, while abroad during the
                    1780s, and as vice president under 
                        Washington
                    .
            Additional problems arise from the "great men and public events" conception of
                    political history that informs the book. Throughout the volume 
                        Brown
                     gives little attention to the changes in American political
                    culture—institutional, ideological, and behavioral—which emerged from the
                    years of revolution and carried into the nineteenth century, fundamentally transforming the contours
                    of American political life. And this is true even though the experience of the late 1790s
                    contributed importantly to these changes.
            The book's major difficulties emerge almost inescapably from the series format. With its
                    focus upon discreet presidential administrations, it allows little opportunity for the consideration
                    of historical change over time, whether one talks of individual development or larger political
                    processes. As an example of political-history-by-presidential-administration, the book is successful
                    enough. The question is whether much is any longer to be gained from this long familiar genre.
            
               University of 
                     Minnesota, Minneapolis
                  
                John Howe
         
         
         
            
               American Indian Policy in the Jacksonian Era. By Ronald N. Satz. (Lincoln:
                    University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1975. Pp. xii, 343. Maps, notes, illustrations, appendix, selected bibliography,
                    index. $12.95.)
            Recent historiography regarding the American Indian has been divided between those sympathetic to or
                    critical of the treatment of Indians by the federal government. In his study of American Indian
                    policy Ronald N. Satz calls for a dispassionate and systematic consideration of this policy during
                    the Jacksonian era. His well researched and complete discussion comes close to this goal. His
                    analysis contains three focuses: the development of the legislative sanction for removal, the
                    formulation of an administrative bureaucracy for Indian affairs, and the implementation under these
                    governmental auspices of Indian policy.
            In the initial chapters Satz assembles the congressional debates, the well known Marshall decisions,
                    the attempts to foster proremoval factions within the several tribes, as well as the various white
                    lobby groups hoping to influence the vote on the Removal Bill of 1830. In so doing, the author shows
                    some sympathy for Jackson and his lieutenants as he sees the "encouragement" of
                    proremoval sentiment (p. 18) and the "winning over" of chiefs (p. 98) where others
                    have seen bribery, the withholding of tribal allotments, and coercion. Yet beneath this level lies a
                    more general political context in which the removal question was a "political
                    football" (p. 48) between Whigs and Jacksonian Democrats. Thus, Satz correctly argues that
                    the Indian question, along with those of the bank, tariffs, and internal improvements, contributed
                    significantly to "the formation of a new two party system in the 1830s" (p. 39).
            By the late 1830s, though the majority of eastern Indians had been evacuated west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , their status in the new land remained problematic. Satz highlights the formation of
                    the Bureau of Indian Affairs and especially the administrations of Thomas McKenney and T. Hartley
                    Crawford. Partisan politics once again figured significantly in Jacksonian Indian relations. First,
                    the development of a governmental bureaucracy—ostensibly to handle Indian affairs, hand
                    out provisions and annuities, and supervise domestic peace—provided attractive sinecures
                    for patronage dispensing politicians. More significant than the politicization  of the Indian office was that, as Henry Schoolcraft, agent in 
                        Michigan
                    , put it, the Indians were "politically a nonentity …. the whole
                    Indian race is not, in the political scales, worth one white man's vote" (p. 200).
                    Thus, as Satz effectively argues, Indian affairs rarely gained attention, and what concern they
                    engendered too often reflected the avaricious zeal of opportunistic politicians.
            Against this unsavory background Satz pits those recommendations, such as the Stokes Commission of
                    1834, for an Indian territory with autonomous self rule. Such proposals made little headway,
                    however, as the Office of Indian Affairs consolidated its control of Indian matters and the
                    patronage powers that went with it. By the 1840s and the administration of Polk the Indians were
                    once again posed as the obstacle to American expansion toward the Pacific. Jackson's
                    removal program, Satz concludes, represented merely a charade never achieving its announced goal of
                    "civilizing" the Indians, or consonance between its reality and rhetoric. Instead
                    control and management were the watchwords, and once again Indian tribes "would continue to
                    relinquish their land at approximately the same rate that whites demanded it" (p. 2).
            Satz' study stands as an able contribution to the growing scholarly literature on American
                    Indian history. There is room to differ with specific points in this well written book, but such is
                    to be expected in an area as controversial as this one. His presentation throughout is full and even
                    handed and provides readers with a rich and thorough study of Indian-white relations in this crucial
                    era.
            
               
                  
                            Brown
                         University, 
                            Providence
                        
                Walter H. Conser, Jr.
         
         
            
               Alternative to Extinction: Federal Indian Policy and the Beginnings of the
                        Reservation System, 1846–51. By Robert A. Trennert, Jr. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Temple University Press, 1975. Pp. ix, 263. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $15.00.)
            The Mexican War greatly complicated the problem of Indian-white relations. Vast new territories lay
                    open for American settlement, and the makers of federal Indian policy faced the task of dealing with
                    new and different native groups. As Robert A. Trennert, Jr., sees it, between 1846 and 1851 the
                    federal government abandoned the notion of an Indian barrier that stemmed from the removal policy of
                    the 1820s and 1830s and developed the conceptual basis for the 
                    creation of the reservation system. The inspiration for this change in policy was the same mixture
                    of altruism, self interest, and ethnocentrism that had generated past policies and would continue to
                    serve the white man in later years. Policy makers showed a genuine desire to aid the native peoples
                    but not at the expense of the expansion of white settlement. They could never grant to native
                    culture the legitimacy they attached to their own way of life. Reservations would clear the path
                    west, remove the Indians from the destructive influences of the white man's world, and
                    provide time for the slow workings of the civilizing process. The more life changed in America, the
                    more it remained the same.
            Trennert describes the efforts at reform initiated by William Medill during the Polk administration
                    and the abandonment of that policy by the Whigs, who were reputed to be more friendly to the
                    Indians. He traces the consequences of war and the operations of federal policy in 
                        Texas
                     and 
                        New Mexico
                     between 1846 and 1852. And finally he treats the penetration of the western emigrants
                    into the domain of the border and plains tribes and the consequences of this movement for the native
                    societies.
            Although Trennert writes about policy, he seems to know well that policy is neither formed nor
                    executed in a vacuum. He is sensitive to the effects of the white man's ways on native
                    culture, and he is dispassionate in discussing the motivations of policy makers. Yet one might ask
                    for greater clarity in the examination of the white man's attitudes. Racism is not the same
                    as ethnocentrism. Though the division between white and Indian has been in some broad sense racial,
                    this did not define the prevailing attitude toward the natives—at least it did not in the
                    early nineteenth century. Furthermore, Trennert's discussion fails to clarify how the
                    reservation policy arose from the white man's conceptions of the Indians'
                    situation. A generation before, the same attitudes had led to the creation of the Indian barrier.
                    Why should they now bring forth reservations? More likely the ideas remained static and the
                    circumstances changed. There simply was not enough room any longer for the Indian barrier.
                    Trennert's discussion does not exclude this interpretation. A fuller analysis of the
                    problem might have embraced it. Trennert's book is a solid and important examination of a
                    short but critical period in the history of Indian-white relations.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Bernard W. Sheehan
         
         
         
            
               The Lady and the President: The Letters of Dorothea Dix and Millard Fillmore. By
                    Charles M. Snyder. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1975. Pp. 400. Notes, selected bibliography, index. $9.50.)
            Millard Fillmore is probably the least remembered president in 
                        United States
                     history. This not entirely inexplicable because what can you say about Millard
                    Fillmore? Likewise Dorothea Dix is among the forgotten humanitarians of the nineteenth century. Not
                    even the women's liberation movement of today has done much to revive interest in her.
                    Until several years ago it was believed the Fillmore Papers had been destroyed in 1889. Within the
                    last few years a large number of Fillmore letters have been discovered including ones written
                    between Fillmore and Dix. In all, more than one hundred and fifty items covering a span of nearly
                    twenty years were found. From these Charles M. Snyder has produced this book.
            Snyder begins with several chapters on the lives of Fillmore and Dix up to their first acquaintance
                    in 1850. He then presents the letters in sequence with an annotated introduction to each one. The
                    early chapters successfully capture the essence of personality exhibited by both the lady and the
                    president. Certainly Fillmore is made more understandable and appealing by the literary ability of
                    Snyder. In the letters written by Fillmore, both in and out of the White House, there is an obvious
                    and sincere concern for the humanitarian efforts by Dix to improve the treatment of the mentally
                    ill. For her part, Dix expressed her hopes and ambitions quite frankly to Fillmore. That she
                    experienced numerous disappointments is clear. Dix believed she had not received full support from
                    the public not only because they did not care but also because she was a woman.
            Fillmore's wife died soon after her husband retired from the presidency and within another
                    year Fillmore's daughter died. The letters from Dix show compassion for the bereaved man
                    and are touching in sentiment. One wonders whether Dix entertained a secret desire to fill the void
                    in Fillmore's life by becoming more than a friend. Although Fillmore lived until 1874, the
                    last extant correspondence with Dix came in 1869. Since the bulk of the letters were written in the
                    1850s they provide little dealing with the years of the Civil War and beyond.
            
            The book is well edited and is suitably printed and bound. In no way does it offer a major
                    contribution to 
                        United States
                     history in the antebellum era. The importance of the book lies in the revelation of two
                    minds that crossed paths and exchanged ideas long ago—and as such represents a valuable
                    footnote to the political and social history of the 1850s.
            
               
                  
                            Mankato
                         State University, 
                            Mankato
                        , Minn. Lewis H. Croce
         
         
            
               Lincoln and the War Democrats: The Grand Erosion of Conservative Tradition. By
                    Christopher Dell. (
                        Rutherford
                    , N.J.: Farleigh Dickinson University Press, 1975. Pp. 455. Notes, appendixes,
                    bibliography, index. $18.50.)
            This book is attractively presented, thoroughly organized, and well written. Christopher Dell pursues
                    his points with vigor and determination. His thesis is that Abraham Lincoln utilized the War
                    Democrats as the most important element in his Union party coalition to abolish slavery, undermine
                    states' rights, and save the Union, but destroyed their own conservative principles in the
                    process. The author manages to present his case in a manner uncritical readers may find convincing.
            The chief fault of this book is its excessive reliance on secondary sources—especially
                    late nineteenth and early twentieth century state histories and biographies—many of which
                    are of dubious quality. For example, Dell treats a three volume Political History of 
                            New York
                        
                (1906–1909) as authoritative. He cites the six volume History of 
                            Maine
                        
                (1919) five consecutive times in discussing the triumph of conservative
                    Republicans over radicals in 
                        Maine
                     in 1863 and the parallel defeat of the peace faction by the War Democrats (pp.
                    240–41). Good secondary sources such as William B. Hesseltine's Lincoln and the War Governors (1955) are frequently used, but James D. Koran's
                    fictionalized Confederate Agent: A Discovery in History (1954) is cited as a
                    reliable source on the Northwest Conspiracy and the Indiana treason trials (pp. 150–51,
                    301). Dell also places unwarranted dependence on Clifton R. Hall's Andrew
                        Johnson, Military Governor of 
                            Tennessee
                        
                (1919) and the Dictionary of American Biography.
            
            Of primary sources, Dell uses the Congressional Globe extensively. Contemporary
                    newspapers are cited sporadically,  as is Roy P.
                    Basler's Collected Works of Abraham Lincoln (8 vols., 1953). Dell rejects
                    Basler's work in favor of secondary sources on federal military interference with the 
                        Maryland
                     elections in 1863, where Lincoln's papers would be very illuminating. Sources
                    such as the Tribune Almanac are used to give election results and often to
                    describe campaigns, issues, and political maneuvering. The Official Records of the War
                        of the Rebellion are not used a half dozen times, and not a single manuscript collection is
                    cited anywhere in the book.
            Dell makes statements of fact absolutely and without authority. He writes, for example, that although
                    William A. Richardson of 
                        Illinois
                     had been elected as a War Democrat, when he entered the 
                        United States
                     Senate "he at once declared as a Peace Democrat" (p. 179). Surely a
                    citation from the Congressional Globe would be in order, but there is none at all.
            The author's classifications of "War Democrats," "Conditional War
                    Democrats," "Peace Democrats," "Regular Democrats," and
                    "Union Democrats" are confusing and arbitrary. His only test of a "War
                    Democrat" is not support of the war, but of the Republican administration. How much
                    political coloration did Generals George G. Meade and Ulysses S. Grant have, and may that political
                    chameleon Edwin M. Stanton be legitimately called a "War Democrat?" In sum, it is
                    regrettable that such a worthwhile project should rest on so insubstantial a foundation.
            
               Campbellsville College, Campbellsville, 
                            Kentucky
                        
                G. R. Tredway
         
         
            
               History of Black Americans: From Africa to the Emergence of the Cotton Kingdom.
                    By Philip S. Foner. (
                        Westport
                    , 
                        Conn.
                    : Greenwood Press, 1975. Pp. 680. Maps, bibliography and sources, index.
                    $25.00.)
            In this first of a projected four volume survey of the history of black people in the Americas,
                    Philip S. Foner adroitly covers a broad range of subjects. The origins of man on the African
                    continent and the multitude of peoples and cultures that developed in that vast land, the colonial
                    expansion of Europe and the development of the Atlantic slave trade, analysis of various systems of
                    slavery in the New World, and the activities of the free black population in  British North America and subsequently the 
                        United States
                    , all come within his scope. The discussion is not simply of generally well known events
                    and personalities. Foner, even when covering long travelled ground, leads the reader through
                    conflicting historical theses and interpretations. The approach makes History of Black
                        Americans a fresh and welcome addition to the field of Afro-American history.
            Though the book covers an enormous time period, two major themes dominate the discussion after the
                    origin of the slave trade: the determination with which European colonists held onto the institution
                    of slavery, and the perseverance with which Africans sought freedom and equality. The cruel slave
                    codes adopted in the various colonies, brutal maimings and even murders employed by Europeans to
                    keep recalcitrant slaves in line, and the refusal of white Georgians and South Carolinians to allow
                    the Continental Congress to enlist slaves in those two colonies during the American
                    Revolution—even when they were overrun by the British—are evidence of the
                    first theme. In 
                        South Carolina
                     and 
                        Georgia
                    , at least, American colonists preferred remaining subject to Great Britain rather than
                    face giving up their slaves. If the first theme is so clear, the second one is equally so. Numerous
                    slaves participated in individual acts of rebellion; others banded together in ill fated revolts;
                    and some, like the followers of Toussaint L'Ouverture in Saint Dominque, succeeded in
                    making a revolution against a powerful European nation. Still others, those Africans known in the 
                        United States
                     as free blacks, utilized established legal systems and fought slavery and racial
                    discrimination through court suits and innumerable petitions to state legislatures. Their
                    entreaties, like the slave revolts, often failed, but they never ceased.
            One of Foner's major contributions in this volume is his discussion of the development of
                    separate and independent institutions among free blacks during the late eighteenth and early
                    nineteenth centuries. Though not new to scholars, students and readers new to the field will learn
                    much about the quality of black leadership and the racist nature of early American society when they
                    read that blacks were forced to establish independent black churches because white Christians denied
                    them equal rights of worship in those churches that existed. Moreover, Foner helps to erase the myth
                    of unanimity of thought among black people by emphasizing the debate that raged among black leaders
                    over the question of whether  to stay in the 
                        United States
                     or emigrate to Africa during the early nineteenth century.
            This good book would have been improved by careful proofreading. On several occasions, typographical
                    errors resulted in errors of fact that can lead to confusion for readers. Despite these problems History of Black Americans is an important starting point for those who can read
                    only one book on the history of black people in early America.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                William H. Harris
         
         
            
               A Peculiar People: 
                            Iowa
                        's Old Order Amish. By Elmer Schwieder and Dorothy Schwieder. (Ames:
                    The 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1975. Pp. ix, 188. Illustrations, maps, appendixes, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $8.50.)
            By far the majority of books, monographs, and tourist guides on the Old Order Amish describe the
                    plain people of the eastern 
                        United States
                    . This volume by Elmer Schwieder and Dorothy Schwieder shifts the usual regional
                    orientation. Besides treating the Old Order in 
                        Iowa
                     it includes a separate chapter on the liberalized Beachy Amish and another on the Amish
                    who live in surrounding states such as 
                        Missouri
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                    . In explaining the nearly three hundred year old sect, the book encompasses the
                    group's Reformation origins and American migration, its religious practices and social
                    support systems, its family life and education, and its rigorous adherence to traditional rules and
                    restrictions. The Amish not only survived but are expanding in modern America, and readers will
                    learn why. Persons interested in how this minority perceives the effect of public education will
                    discover that the sect has consistently opposed secular education and that in the 1960s it
                    successfully resisted compulsory school attendance at public institutions in 
                        Iowa
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                    . According to the Schwieders, the Amish have also been adept at allowing just enough
                    economic individualism to gratify private needs; but not so much as to promote desires of worldy
                    aggrandizement. Thus they have endured as a communitarian society in the way that the Amana Society
                    and the Icarians, two Utopian groups in 
                        Iowa
                    's history, did not.
            One of the most crucial aspects in which the Amish differ from the Icarians and the Amana is in their
                    provision for expansion and mobility. The Schwieders argue persuasively  that the ability to relocate has been a vital safety valve for the
                    preservation of the total community. For the 
                        Iowa
                     Amish, whose existence in the state predates statehood, the creation of new settlements
                    has brought enlarged farming opportunities, stronger family controls during periods of transition,
                    and the defusion of troublesome personality conflicts. And so the Amish have moved. Ironically but
                    without doubt mobility has helped to prevent the decline of a faith which travels by horse and
                    buggy.
            Like most writers who have published on the Amish, the authors of this book are plainly favorable to
                    the people they describe. Fortunately, their sympathy does not deteriorate into the gawking,
                    sentimentalized version of the sect, which is the fate of so many nontechnical studies of the plain
                    people. An error the writers do commit is to state that relations between the Amish and the
                    non-Amish in older 
                        Iowa
                     settlements have invariably been positive and that even the church's
                    nonresistance has brought "little if any difficulty" (p. 99). On the contrary,
                    wars have had serious repercussions for the Amish. During World War I patriots organized around
                    detachments to intimidate them into accepting military service. But this is pale criticism in the
                    face of the book's achievement: it is comprehensive, concise, readable, and interestingly
                    illustrated.
            
               Library of Congress, 
                            Washington
                        
                Allan Teichroew
         
         
            
               Advocacy and Objectivity: A Crisis in the Professionalization of American Social
                        Science, 1865–1905. By Mary O. Furner. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , for the Organization of American Historians, 1975. Pp. xv, 357. Notes, bibliography,
                    index. $17.50.)
            By its cover this book appears to be yet another telling of the now well known story of the
                    development of the social sciences in the late Gilded Age. Like others, however, this book should
                    not be judged only by its cover. Mary O. Turner's main concern is indeed the conflict
                    between reform advocacy and academic objectivity. But beneath these shopworn headings she provides a
                    wealth of useful detail, new interpretation, ‘and even an exciting plot. The book is
                    lucidly written and is based on extensive mining of primary and other sources— most
                    notably the correspondence of academics, administrators,  and
                    amateur economists—so revealing as to prove again that universities should require
                    faculty members to donate their papers to their university archives.
            Despite its title most of the book deals with 1884–1900 and with the economics profession
                    rather than all of "American social science." Furner excludes history and
                    anthropology and devotes only about two chapters to political science and sociology in
                    1900–1905. But she finds plenty to say about the economists, treating them as a group
                    seeking their professional identity rather than, as other historians have done, as social theorists,
                    fringe members of the Social Gospel movement, or protoprogressives. She opens with a chapter on the
                    1870s, focusing on the American Social Science Association with its mixture of amateurs and
                    academics, some of whom were becoming worried about the social problems of modernization. In four
                    fascinating and dramatic chapters she treats the confrontation between Richard T. Ely and other
                    young economists—most of them trained in German historicism and motivated by social
                    ethics—and William Graham Sumner, Simon Newcomb, and other upholders of laissez faire
                    orthodoxy; the resulting creation of the American Economic Association in 1885; and the aftermath of
                    the affair, involving a retreat from ethical problems and from Ely's leadership, through
                    1892. These events were no tempest in an academic teapot. They were crucial for social science
                    professionalization and for American social history because the widely publicized challenge to
                    laissez faire provided the beginnings of a rationale for reform which was socially and
                    intellectually respectable, and which in the progressive era upheld corporate capitalism and middle
                    class values. Turner's treatment of the AEA struggle is exceptionally clear and detailed.
                    One can argue with parts of it, such as its portrayal of Ely as something of a false prophet; but
                    arguing with Furner is part of the fun of reading her intricately interesting story.
            The next five chapters examine the academic freedom cases of Henry Carter Adams at Cornell in 1886,
                    Ely at 
                        Wisconsin
                     in 1894, Edward W. Bemis at 
                        Chicago
                     and John R. Commons at 
                        Syracuse
                     in 1895, Elisha B. Andrews at 
                        Brown
                     and J. Allen Smith at 
                        Marietta
                     in 1897, and Edward A. Ross at 
                        Stanford
                     in 1900. The book's narrative force is less compelling here, but the author
                    convincingly demonstrates how, over those fifteen years, "the limits of acceptable advocacy
                    were gradually defined" (p. 144). Concern with ethical 
                    problems such as labor relations and wealth distribution became muted from the Adams' case
                    onward. By the time the Ross case was over professional economics was established in academe, the
                    ASSA and its amateurs were on the way out, and the old laissez faire consensus was shattered. The
                    price was that by 1905, "the academic professionals, having retreated to the security of
                    technical expertise, left to journalists and politicians the original mission—the
                    comprehensive assessment of industrial society—that had fostered the professionalization
                    of social science" (p. 324).
            Furner's book is a worthy addition to the list of Frederick Jackson Turner prizewinners. It
                    is a fascinating treatment of an important subject.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Walter T. K. Nugent
         
         
            
               Whitelaw Reid: Journalist, Politician, Diplomat. By Bingham Duncan. (
                        Athens
                    : The University of 
                        Georgia
                     Press, 1975. Pp. 305. Illustration, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $11.00.)
            This study is the first biography of Whitelaw Reid since Royal Cortissoz, a Reid friend and
                    associate, published a two volume biography in 1921. While scholars will continue to find material
                    of value in Cortissoz' work, Bingham Duncan's study explains more satisfactorily
                    the many chapters of Reid's long career.
            Born in 
                        Xenia
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1837, Reid first won distinction as a reporter during the Civil War. Within a few
                    years after that conflict he succeeded Horace Greeley as editor of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune. Soon he had financial control of the Tribune company.
                    His marriage to Lizzie Mills, daughter of the enormously wealthy Darius Ogden Mills, brought Reid
                    even greater financial power. Reid became one of the most influential spokesmen of the Republican
                    party, winning its vice presidential nomination in 1892. More interested in domestic politics than
                    foreign affairs he nevertheless became a respected diplomat, serving as minister to 
                        France
                     during the Benjamin Harrison administration, as a member of the commission to negotiate
                    peace with 
                        Spain
                     in 1898, and as ambassador to Great Britain from 1905 until his death in 1912.
            Reid was an enigma to people of his time. While he won considerable respect for his many achievements
                    in public life,  he impressed many acquaintances as being a man
                    whose greatest concern was his own advancement. He himself liked few people, but he enjoyed his
                    success as a leader in society. Reserved and withdrawn, he nonetheless was an effective public
                    speaker. Duncan does not profess to have solved the mysteries of Reid's personality, but he
                    provides his reader with many anecdotes which reveal Reid in different moods. For example, Duncan
                    describes the Reids buying a room from a French chateau and installing it in their 
                        New York
                     mansion; a few pages later he describes Reid trying to decide between two plasters, one
                    costing thirty-five cents a yard and the other thirty cents, for the walls of a chicken house at
                    Ophir Farm, his country estate. Duncan writes of Reid's constant concern for his mother,
                    wife, and children, but some of the most memorable passages in this book tell of Reid discharging
                    employees of the Tribune when he found he could hire others for less.
                    Duncan's presentations of Reid's views on most major issues are
                    brief—perhaps too brief—but his discussions of Reid's positions on
                    the protective tariff and the acquisition of the Philippines are unusually clear analyses of those
                    important subjects.
            Duncan bases this study primarily upon the Reid papers in the Library of Congress, documents in the
                    National Archives, and Reid's published writings. This concise, well written biography will
                    be of interest to anyone concerned with American politics, diplomacy, and journalism of the periods
                    from the Civil War to World War I.
            
               Duke University, Durham Calvin D. Davis
         
         
            
               Adlai Stevenson of 
                            Illinois
                        : The Life Of Adlai E. Stevenson. By John Bartlow Martin. (
                        Garden City
                    , N.Y.: Double-day & Company, Inc., 1976. Pp. ix, 828. Notes, illustrations,
                    appendixes, source notes, index. $15.00.)
            Democratic presidential nominee Adlai Stevenson had a splendid idea for his 1952 campaign: appeal to
                    the best in people. He told Archibald MacLeish, one of his speech writers: "I get so sick
                    of the everlasting appeals to the cupidity and prejudice of every group which characterizes our
                    political campaigns. There is something finer in people; they know that they owe something, too. I
                    should like to try, at least, to appeal to their sense of obligation as well as their
                    avarice"  (p. 653). He did just that, at least in most
                    of his speeches in his first campaign for the White House. That he did was due in large measure to
                    the hard work and brilliance of a small group of speechwriters, one of whom was John Bartlow Martin.
            Martin, who grew up in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , went to DePauw University, and prior to World War II worked on the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Times, has written this exceptionally well done political biography. A gifted
                    writer and reporter with an especially skillful eye for detail, he has drawn a candid, sometimes
                    brutally honest portrait of a Democratic politician who stirred the American intellectual and
                    academic community as no one had since Woodrow Wilson.
            The first of two volumes, the book covers the period from Stevenson's birth in 1900 through
                    the 1952 presidential campaign. Martin shows that Stevenson was a great man, although not wholly the
                    man the public believed him to be. He was wealthy but parsimonious, haggling with a tenant over
                    $12.50 in rent. Although he appeared reluctant to get into politics, that was a false
                    picture. He wanted to get in for years before he did and constantly angled for political
                    opportunities. He appeared indecisive, vacillating, even timid. But often he had made his mind up
                    long before, merely playing the public role of indecision for effect.
            His marriage broken and ending in divorce in 1949, his first year as governor of 
                        Illinois
                    , he carried on simultaneous love affairs with Alicia Patterson and Dorothy Fosdick, the
                    daughter of Harry Emerson Fosdick. Despite the admiration intellectuals lavished on him, he rarely
                    read a book. He was a late bloomer, a man who matured slowly as he wandered away from the life of a
                    LaSalle Street lawyer and suburban commuter in prewar 
                        Chicago
                     to win a landslide victory as governor of 
                        Illinois
                     in 1948 and the Democratic presidential nomination in 1952 and 1956.
            His speeches, letters, and public statements were often moving, graceful, and witty. They were not as
                    spontaneous as it seemed. He worked like the very devil to get them just right. He never achieved
                    the presidency; he might not have been a good one had he made it to the White House. But he elevated
                    the quality of American politics.
            Martin's first volume is superlative; it whets the appetite for the second.
            
               
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                     News Edward H. Ziegner
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
