
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 43, Issue 2, pages 105-204. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:43+issue:2+year:1947&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            An Early Crisis in Indiana History
            
                    William O. Lynch
                    ⋆
                
            When Indiana became the nineteenth state in the Union in 1816, the country was approaching a
                    financial crisis. Inflation continued until the latter part of 1818, to be followed by a real
                    collapse in 1819. The early history of the new state was therefore marked by a boom, a panic and a
                    depression. There was much hardship and discouragement as recovery was a slow process. How the
                    pioneers who lived in the settled areas of the frontier commonwealth of Indiana passed through the
                    years that centered around 1820 makes an interesting story.
            It is helpful to realize that Indiana was once a colony of the 
                        United States
                     as truly as the old thirteen states had been colonies of Great Britain. Though the
                    colonial status of an American territory ended politically when statehood was attained, economically
                    and socially, a colonial condition usually continued for some years. Indiana remained a colony
                    almost to the Civil War in several respects. The white population of Indiana, at the time of
                    admission to the Union, occupied a comparatively narrow belt along the 
                        Ohio
                     extending up the Whitewater Valley at the southeast and up the 
                        Wabash
                     at the southwest. In 1816 by far the greater portion of the state was unsettled except
                    by Indians. This meant that most of the state was yet to be colonized by settlers from the older
                    states and from Europe. As late as 1840, there remained in Indiana well above four million acres of
                    unsold lands.1 Thus a quarter of a century after statehood was conferred, less
                    than four-fifths of the state had been colonized.
            
               
                  ⋆ William O. Lynch is the president of the Indiana Historical
                        Society. This paper, in which minor changes have been made, was read before the Society of
                        Indiana Pioneers at the annual dinner in the Claypool Hotel in 
                            Indianapolis
                         on December 14, 1946.
               
                  1 Total amount of land in Indiana, 21;565,440 acres. American
                            State Papers: Documents, Legislative and Executive (38 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , 1832–1861), Public Lands, XXX (1834), 497.
            
            
            Colonists from widely different areas of the older portions of the 
                        United States
                     and from foreign countries flowed into Indiana and into other new states and
                    territories in a similar stage of development. These diverse elements brought in a variety of
                    ideals, traits of character and customs and built a civilization where none had existed before. It
                    was a fact of deep importance for any family to be a part of such a movement and process.
            When the Teutonic peoples overran the provinces of the Roman Empire, they occupied a country long
                    inhabited by civilized people. They found highly developed language, literature, laws, institutions,
                    and economic systems. The invaders were in time absorbed by the civilization in the midst of which
                    they found themselves, and, at best, did no more than modify it. In America, in the vast interior
                    more than along the Atlantic seaboard, there was seemingly a grand opportunity to build a new regime
                    such as the world had never seen. To many Americans, it has seemed that such a process was actually
                    carried through, but such a notion will bear examination.
            Partly from choice, but more from necessity, the builders of civilization in what is now the 
                        United States
                     did modify accustomed ways of living and institutions. Daring, inventive, and ingenious
                    minds were stimulated by the conditions that pioneers faced as long as frontier communities
                    prevailed. Frontier forces did tend to be leveling and iconoclastic. On the other hand, it is
                    characteristic of most people who are free to develop their own institutions that they are averse to
                    any large amount of experimentation. That this truth has been widely exemplified is attested by the
                    fact that whenever and wherever special groups attempted to establish communities unlike the
                    familiar type in frontier regions, their members were regarded as cranks and their establishments as
                    unique but impossible. Even colonies planted to be the homes of new religious faiths or new types of
                    governments, were usually quite orthodox in regard to about everything else.2
            
            Most pioneer men and women preserved as far as possible the traditions, the habits, and the methods
                    of doing the 
                  
                     2 This idea was first developed by the author in an earlier paper. See
                            "The 
                                Mississippi
                             Valley and Its History," 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Valley Historical Review (Cedar Rapids, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1914- ), XXVI (1938-1939), 3–20.
               
                     ordinary things of everyday life from making garden and baking
                    bread to conducting weddings and funerals. In most instances, pioneers who did not know frontier
                    life until they had reached maturity changed their ways not from choice but because it was
                    necessary. Those who were born on the frontier or were carried thither as young children, never
                    having known an older society, more easily accepted pioneer habits and conditions as normal. It was
                    this indigenous element, not those who came to the fringes of civilization from well-established
                    communities, that included the real pioneers. In every frontier state, county, or neighborhood,
                    there were, of course, both types, and leaders came from each.
            There is something fascinating about this classification of pioneers and the fact that living on the
                    frontier affected the two groups differently. Mature men and women who came to the Indiana frontier
                    from 
                  Virginia, North Carolina
               , 
                        Kentucky
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , or 
                        Ohio
                    , whose childhood and youth and often the earlier years of married life had been spent
                    in some older area, were obliged to adjust themselves to crude living conditions. Their children
                    started life on the frontier and knew nothing different until conditions in the new area were
                    transformed with the passing of years. It should be remembered that these children of the frontier
                    missed opportunities to which their parents had enjoyed comparatively easy access during childhood
                    and youth. This was a trial to earnest and thoughtful fathers and mothers, and it caused them to
                    long for and work for the time when advantages left behind in old communities could be furnished to
                    their children.3
            
            
               
                  3 The author's paternal and maternal grandparents came to the raw
                        frontier of north central Indiana (
                            Carroll County
                        ). My grandfather John Lynch was born in 
                            Pennsylvania
                         in 1800. He left his native state for 
                            Ohio
                         while still a minor. He was married to Charity McGriffe in 
                            Ohio
                         and his older children were born in that state. He brought his family to Indiana in
                        1835, where his younger children were born. My father, Isaac 
                            Newton
                         Lynch, was born in 
                            Carroll County
                        , Indiana, in 1840. My grandfather, Robert 
                            Franklin
                         Connelly, came to 
                            Carroll County
                        , Indiana, in 1835, or very near that year. He was born in 1804 in Scott County, 
                            Kentucky
                        , where he married Frances Herndon. His older children were born in that state. He
                        migrated to Indiana with his family and settled in 
                            Carroll County
                        . His younger children were born there. My mother, Frances Jane Connelly was born in
                        1845. Each of my grandparents grew up in communities where there were advantages that were not
                        open to my father and mother during their childhood and youth. No doubt many who read this
                        article can find similar stories in their family histories.
            
            
            The movement of colonists to the Old Northwest was slow in the early years of the nineteenth century,
                    because of poor transportation facilities and the hostility of Indians to the transformation of
                    their hunting grounds into farms. The natives were naturally hostile to the colonists who killed off
                    and drove away their game and rendered impossible their accustomed manner of living. This the French
                    and British furtraders had not done, but had instead enhanced the well-being of the Indians. It was
                    the War of 1812 that largely solved the Indian problems of the Old Northwest, especially in relation
                    to 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    . Following the military victories in 1813, the first real rush of settlers to Indiana
                    Territory began. It was this onset of colonists that enabled the territorial leaders to speed up the
                    movement for statehood, which, as everyone knows, came to fruition in 1816.4
            
            It was necessary for a territory of the Old Northwest to show a population of sixty thousand free
                    inhabitants, under the terms of the Ordinance of 1787, before statehood could be granted. A
                    territorial census was taken in 1815, and the count revealed 63,897 persons in the thirteen counties
                    that had been formed. Among these were 12,112 males over twenty-one years of age. Indians and unfree
                    residents were not included.5 It was indeed a generous government that permitted
                    a province with such a meager population to become a state equal to the existing eighteen states in
                    the Union. The great colonizing peoples of history–Greeks, Romans, Spaniards, French,
                    Dutch, English–had none of them ever evolved anything comparable in the way of government
                    for a colony to that embodied in the Ordinance of 1787.6
            
            
               
                  4 See John D. Barnhart, "The Democratization of Indiana
                        Territory," Indiana Magazine of History (
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, 1905- ), XLIII (1947), 1–22, for an article which contains
                        much about the movement of colonists to Indiana Territory. See also Chelsea L. Lawlis,
                        "Settlement of the Whitewater Valley, 1790–1810," ibid., 23–40, for further material relating to the same subject.
               
                  5 Returns of the territorial census of 1815 were printed in the Annals of Congress, 14 Cong., 1 Sess., 460.
               
                  6 The passage of the Ordinance of 1787 was one of the outstanding events
                        in the political history of the world. It should be mentioned here that it was four score of
                        years later when the Canadian Federation was created. This was the first of the self-governing
                        confederations formed within the British Empire. It meant the beginning of a second enlightened
                        modern method of dealing with colonies. It indicates what might have been the destiny of the
                        colonies that became the 
                            United States
                         of America had British statesmen avoided the American Revolution in
                        1775–1776.
            
            
            After the framing of their first state constitution in 1816, the enthusiasts among the citizens of
                    Indiana who yearned for statehood worked feverishly to finish their project.7 In
                    fact, they exceeded the speed limit as the new state government was a going concern more than a
                    month before Congress passed the resolution admitting Indiana to the Union on December 11, 1816. The
                    members of the General Assembly met in Corydon and organized on the fourth of November, the state
                    officials were sworn in three days later, and Jonathan Jennings delivered his first message as
                    governor on that day. It seems a bit strange, but it is true, that Congress sitting in the distant
                    federal capital, acted readily in the matter of conferring statehood on Indiana, disregarding the
                    fact that, out on the raw edge of the frontier in a crude village, a state government was already
                    functioning. Since nothing ever came of it, there was no cause for worry over the premature
                    launching of that government in the western wilderness.
            On the theory that Indiana was already a state because a convention authorized by an enabling act of
                    Congress had framed a constitution, the General Assembly participated in the presidential election
                    of 1816–1817. Three presidential electors were chosen by the Assembly three weeks before
                    the passage of the statehood resolution by Congress on December 11. The sealed votes of these three
                    electors were sent to 
                        Washington
                     to be opened on the first Wednesday in February of 1817, when the electoral votes of
                    the country were to be counted. The two Senators from Indiana were seated on December 12, the day
                    following the passage of the statehood resolution, but the lone Representative from the new state
                    had been given the oath of office and allowed to take his seat on December 2, nine days before
                    Congress acted on the matter of statehood.8 Was Indiana a state before December
                    11, 1816? This question was raised when Congress met in joint session to convass the
                    electoral votes on February 12, 
                  
                     7 Not all of the leaders of Indiana Territory supported the ardent
                            advocates of immediate statehood. The opposition argued that the population of the territory
                            were not yet ready for statehood, stressing especially the financial burden that would be
                            incurred. The opponents of statehood did not exert much influence. See Donald F. Carmony,
                            "Fiscal Objection to Statehood in Indiana," Indiana Magazine
                                of History, XLII (1946), 311–321.
                  
                     8 The two 
                                United States
                             Senators chosen by the legislature of the new state were James Noble and Waller
                            Taylor.
               
                     1817. The joint session adjourned temporarily and the Senators
                    returned to their chamber. The House then debated the question warmly and two conflicting
                    resolutions were offered, but both were indefinitely postponed leaving the question unsettled. The
                    two houses again met in joint session, and Indiana's three votes were counted last. Had the
                    election been very close, her votes could have been extremely important. As it was, the total vote
                    stood 183 for James 
                        Monroe
                     to 34 for Rufus King, instead of 180 to 34.9
            
            The energy and haste displayed by the promoters of statehood for Indiana were in tune with the spirit
                    that prevailed among the aggressive elements to be found in the scattered communities of the new
                    commonwealth. The population of the territory, already reduced to approximately the present limits
                    of Indiana, was only 23,890 when the federal census of 1810 was taken. Progress was extremely slow
                    from 1800 to 1813. With the disappearance of the Indian menace in the latter year, settlers began to
                    pour into Indiana so rapidly that the population trebled from 1813 to the end of 1816.10 The incoming tide continued to increase until it was sharply checked by the financial
                    collapse of 1819. The population of the new state increased but little during the first half of
                    1820, and the census figure of that year, which was 147,178, means that the population practically
                    doubled during the years 1817, 1818, and 1819.11
            
            Nothing produced more excitement and restless activity in a frontier state with few people and a vast
                    amount of unoccupied land than a great inrush of colonists. To Indiana, in the boom period that
                    ended in 1819, there came hordes of homeseekers and people seeking business opportunities, among
                    whom were many speculators. At the time, the zeal of the speculators was greatly enhanced by the
                    prevailing inflation and by the credit system under which lands were purchased at the government
                    land offices. Farmers already established 
                  
                     9
                            Annals ,of Congress, 14 Cong., 2 Sess., 945–949.
                  
                     10 Exact figures are not available for the two years 1813 and 1816.
                            The best estimates seem to be about 25,000 for 1813 and 70,000 to 75,000 for 1816.
                  
                     11 As a rule the westward flow of colonists was slack during every
                            winter, and, since the winter of 1819–1820 followed the panic of 1819, the
                            movement was below normal. Hard times had come with a vengeance by the spring of 1820 and
                            there were few arrivals. The assumption that the population of Indiana when the census was
                            taken in 1820 was practically the same as a year earlier is a fair one.
               
                     were furnished with a market right at home for their surplus
                    grain, horses, cows, and hogs, since all newcomers had some money and nearly all of them were
                    anxious to make some purchases. Even the poorest of those, who came in with the object of acquiring
                    land to be converted into farms, were tempted to buy as much as possible. If they succeeded in
                    purchasing at the minimum price of two dollars per acre, it was only necessary to pay one-fourth
                    down, and to most buyers, it seemed good policy to buy four times as much as it would be possible to
                    purchase with the resources in hand should full payment be made in cash. Men who came to the
                    frontier to speculate, of course, took advantage of the opportunity to buy as heavily as possible in
                    order to hold the lands purchased for sale later at a profit.
            Everyone who had land for sale was very happy to see colonists swarm into the developing counties of
                    Indiana. Then as now, men were stimulated by rapidly increasing population to expand businesses or
                    engage in new ventures and were pleased to see prices go up. The same conditions that encouraged
                    heavy land sales, the expansion of mercantile business and transportation also favored an undue
                    development of banking. Aside from the general boom that spread over the country, there would have
                    been a period of exciting prosperity in frontier Indiana from 1813 to 1819. With the added stimulus
                    of widespread inflation, reckless speculation and overexpansion of trade, the boom in Indiana
                    reached a much more dangerous height than would otherwise have been possible.
            The system of selling public lands on credit was passing through its last stages during the years of
                    the first great rush of settlers to Indiana. In that period, which extended from 1813 to 1819, it
                    was possible to acquire title to 160 acres of land for a cash outlay of $294.40, after
                    the deduction of a discount of eight per cent.12 In 1817 the Land Act of 1800
                    was amended so that as small an amount as eighty acres could be purchased,13
                    minus the discount, a patent could be obtained for a tract of this size for $147.20. The
                    opportunity to obtain a farm so cheaply by paying for it entirely at the time of purchase with no
                    future payments to be made was 
                  
                     12
                            Annals of Congress, 8 Cong., 1 Sess., 1290.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 14 Cong., 2 Sess., 1280.
               
                     not attractive to buyers in the boom period, the preference
                    being for the acquisition of four times as much land as could be paid for in full with the cash in
                    hand, making only the required first payment of one-fourth at the time of purchase. In many
                    instances, buyers of government land, in the years under consideration, made no payments whatever
                    after the first, held the land for five years and then forfeited it.14 In many
                    cases, the buyer even borrowed the money with which to make the first payment of one-fourth. Such
                    loans were often not paid off when due but renewed from year to year.15
            
            Land debts were the most common in frontier Indiana in the hectic period that ended in 1819, but
                    there was also much borrowing for other purposes–to construct business buildings, to set
                    up sawmills, to erect gristmills, to build boats, to finance shipping operations, and to use in
                    various other ways. While the period of swelling prosperity was on, it was easy to obtain loans. In
                    fact, money was easy to create. Banks of the West and South had little specie and the legislation
                    and rules governing banking operations were lenient. Banks could be organized without difficulty,
                    and, once started, they could print bank notes and begin to loan money. Entirely too much money was
                    loaned on real estate security, especially on town lots, and on other assets of pioneers. Some
                    thrifty farmers used their income to meet deferred payments on their lands and had little use for
                    banks. The income of less careful and more ambitious landowners and many businessmen was used in new
                    speculative ventures.16
            
            The two banks of Indiana Territory were the Bank of 
                        Vincennes
                     and the Farmers and Mechanics' Bank of 
                        Madison
                    . The constitution of 1816 recognized both of these financial institutions as
                    incorporated banks and provided that either might be adopted as the state bank of Indiana. Should
                    either become the state bank, the other could be made a branch bank. When a state bank should be
                    established, the number of branches was not to exceed one for any group of three counties. A
                    legislative enactment of 1817, made the Bank 
                  
                     14 See Annals of Congress, 6 Cong.,
                            1516–1522, for a copy of the Land Act of May 10, 1800.
                  
                     15 See Payson J. Treat, The National Land System,
                                1785–1820 (
                                New York
                            , 1910), chapter V, for a good treatment of land buying in the public lands
                            states during the period of the credit system.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid. See also Ralph H. Catterall, The Second Bank of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1903), 33–37.
               
                     of 
                        Vincennes
                     the state bank. The counties of the state were grouped into fourteen districts and the
                    designated state bank was authorized to establish a bank in each district.17
            
            A plan was formed to organize thirteen new banks at once in addition to the two existing banks, which
                    would mean fifteen banks to serve a population of about seventy-five thousand men, women, and
                        children.18 Since a great percentage of the families of the infant state
                    made no use of banks, the plan of the promoters was certainly not unduly conservative. The
                    undertaking was characteristic of the inflationary period, though, of course, the belief that
                    population would continue to increase at an advancing rate was somewhat justified by the prevailing
                    influx of colonists. There was, however, small need for any new banks at the time, but legislators
                    were thinking, or rather dreaming, in large terms. It turned out to be impossible to find towns able
                    to furnish business for thirteen new banks, but the Bank of 
                        Vincennes
                     went through the motions of trying to establish them and asked the Farmers and
                    Mechanics' Bank at 
                        Madison
                     to come into the system as a branch. The directors and stockholders of the 
                        Madison
                     institution refused to enter the organization, and only three of the proposed thirteen
                    branches were actually established. These were located at Corydon, the capital, at 
                        Vevay
                     in 
                        Switzerland
                     County, and at 
                        Brookville
                     in 
                        Franklin County
                    .19 With five banks, Indiana was well supplied as to number, though
                    many citizens were located at very inconvenient distances from even the nearest of the five.
                    Considering the small number of people who carried bank accounts in that day, comparatively few
                    citizens suffered hardships.
            The banking situation was precarious in the entire country during 1816 and 1817 and grew worse until
                    the panic started at the very end of 1818. Congress had chartered the Second Bank of the 
                        United States
                     in 1816, and it was set up in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1819 with branches in sixteen cities to which another was soon added. The branches
                    within easy range of Indiana were located at 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    . Started in a period of inflation, the Second Bank of the 
                  
                     17 Constitution of Indiana, 1816, Article X, Section 1.
                  
                     18
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1816–1817, p. 185. The total
                            capital of the fifteen proposed banks was to have been $2,225,000.
                  
                     19 Logan Esarey, State Banking in Indiana,
                                1814–1873, in Indiana University Bulletin (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1903- ), X (1912), 226–229.
               
                    
                    
                        United States
                     under a weak president helped to increase inflation and speculation for a year and a
                    half. Then it was able to save itself by resorting to drastic measures. While doing so it hastened
                    the coming of the panic of 1819 which was bound to come anyway.20
            
            The panic brought greater distress to the newer West than to any other section. The 
                        United States
                     Bank had made loans in the West that were much too large and local banks had also
                    loaned so freely that "inflation and over-trading were unparalleled." Indiana was
                    in the region where the financial situation was at the worst when the crash came.21 The Indiana banks, like others could not obtain payments on loans, could not redeem their
                    circulating notes, and could not continue making loans. Private enterprise was checked and then
                    paralyzed. Farm products and merchandise could be sold with difficulty at any price. Laborers
                    we're without employment. In September, 1820, corn was sold in some parts of 
                        Kentucky
                     at ten cents a bushel and wheat at twenty cents. In May, 1821, corn sold at 
                        Cincinnati
                     at ten cents per bushel and wheat in some parts of 
                        Ohio
                     at the same price.22 A 
                        Pittsburgh
                     newspaper, relative to prices at that place, published the following brief report:
                        
                        Flour, a barrel, $1.00; whiskey, 15 cents a gallon; good merchantable pine boards,
                            20 cents a hundred feet; sheep and calves $1.00 a head. Foreign goods at the old
                            prices. One bushel and a-half of wheat will buy a pound of coffee; a barrel of flour will
                            buy a pound of tea; twelve and a-half barrels will buy one yard of superfine broad cloth.23
                  
                    
            
            The prosperity, so largely artificial, which began in 1813 and increased for several years vanished
                    in 1819 and a period of depression followed the collapse. It was the first time
                    since the establishment of the 
                        United States
                     as an independent nation that a business cycle ran its course–boom, crash,
                    depression, slow recovery–but not the last. The outlook seemed very
                    dark to the pioneers of Indiana in 1820–heavy debts, credit at zero, trade at a
                    standstill, prices and wages at the bottom level. The incoming flood of settlers was dropping 
                  
                     20 Catterall, Second Bank of the 
                                    United States
                                , 61–71.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., 61–62.
                  
                     22
                            Journal of Banking (1 vol., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1841–1842), I, 2.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 3. Numerous items relative to prices can be found in local
                            newspapers of the early eighteen-twenties and in the issues of Niles' Weekly
                                Register.
                  
               
                     towards the minimum in 1820; there was due to the government
                    land offices in Indiana for lands partly paid for a total of $2,214,168.63 with dates of
                    forfeiture for many pioneer citizens (including plenty of speculators) at hand or fast
                        approaching.24 There was no incentive for farmers to produce a surplus of
                    hogs or grain, or for anyone to expand a business or start a new enterprise. The depression of the
                    early eighteen-twenties was an added and general misfortune which pioneers had to bear along with
                    the hardships that were so common to frontier communities.
            There was, to be sure, another side to the picture. The population of Indiana had increased from
                    63,897 in 1815 to 147,178 in 1820. This population was widely scattered. There we're now
                    (1820) thirty-five counties, but only three had a population above ten thousand. The most populous
                    was 
                        Wayne County
                     , with 12,119. Certainly, Indiana society was not very complex at the time. Food was
                    easy to produce. Building materials, fencing materials, and fuel were everywhere close at hand and
                    abundant. Game was plentiful in the forests and fish in the streams. Even in towns, most families
                    could supply themselves with food and shelter in the midst of hard times. Cows, hogs, and poultry
                    could be kept by townspeople, and a family in need of milk or eggs was poor indeed. Clothing was
                    more of a problem, but not really serious for most families. It cannot be denied that thdre was far
                    less danger that the poor would go cold, hungry, or shelterless in the midst of abundance in that
                    simple period than in our streamlined age.
            The panic of 1819 and the succeeding depression could not eliminate the cleared fields, the forests,
                    the cabins and other homes, nor the stables and barns. No matter what the total or per capita debt,
                    and each was high, the tangible assets we're right at hand. Though not worth much in
                    dollars as compared with the expanded values of the very recent years, they could be employed to the
                    extent that necessaries were obtained by nearly everyone. Under the conditions that prevailed in
                    Indiana in 1820, when such a large percentage of the families were practically self-sustaining
                    economic units, the suffering could not be overwhelming. 
                  
                     24
                            American State Papers: Documents, Legislative and Executive, Public Lands,
                            XXX, 645.
               
                     Americans accustomed to living under present conditions in
                    urban dr rural areas would not find it easy to state the differences between the prosperity of 1818
                    and the stagnation of 1820, if they could be given a glimpse of the everyday life in the two stages.
                    Besides the saving factors mentioned as present in 1820, there was, of course, the necessity, then
                    as in our day, to carry on somehow in spite of the calamities that had come, but the truth is that
                    it was much less difficult, in that simple age, to face the problems of a period of depression than
                    it is in the twentieth century. People who were alive and healthful reacted to adverse conditions
                    and found ways to carry on necessary activities as normal conditions slowly returned.
            In 1820 and as long as pioneer life continued in considerable areas, the populations of states in the
                    process of being colonized included a larger proportion of stoics and pre-destinarians than can be
                    found in American communities of our day. We have now more arrogance and misunderstanding among the
                    "haves" and more bitterness and lack of hope among the
                    "have-nots," and it is a question whether we produce the high percentage of sturdy
                    men and women that were developed in pioneer times. Calamities and hardships were such common
                    features of their everyday life that pioneers steeled themselves to meet the worst. Disasters, so
                    many of them due to forces and conditions not understood, were apt to be regarded as inevitable and
                    accepted with fortitude. The best was made of every situation, since the belief was common that what
                    is to be will be. It is not to be wondered at that so many pioneers schooled themselves to meet
                    troubles stoically.
            There were rough characters in many pioneer communities. There was a rampaging side to frontier life
                    about which considerable has been written in 'recent years.25 There were also
                    among the steady and sturdy pioneer folks many who had a sense of humor, which was a valuable asset.
                    They liked stories of the type of Aesop's fables because they carried points which could be
                    applied to life in frontier communities. They enjoyed telling and hearing stories that fitted types
                    of people with whom they were familiar or which 
                  
                     25 Thomas D. Clark, The Rampaging Frontier (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1939). This is an interesting and outstanding volume on the rougher phase of
                            frontier life and manners.
               
                     were related to circumstances and characteristics of the
                    community life about them.
            There is the story of the man who was healthy but too lazy to work, whom we may call
                    "Sam." Frequently this pioneer was found to be in dire need of food; and he was
                    helped by his neighbors time after time. Finally, a group of men who had just aided him tried to
                    cure him of his shift-lessness. They warned him that if he ever let himself get into such a
                    predicament again with no reason, they would bury him alive. For a brief period he did better, then
                    relapsed. The neighbor men assembled, grim and determined, made a litter, placed Sam upon it and
                    carried him up a byroad towards a small burying ground. When the solemn march was about half over,
                    one of Sam's neighbors relented and requested his comrades to halt, after which he
                    addressed them, saying——"Men, we are about to do a very serious
                    thing. I don't want to go through with it. If you will join with me and
                    each give something, I will contribute a bushel of corn and Sam can have one more chance."
            At this juncture, Sam aroused himself a bit, raised himself on his right elbow a little way, and
                    inquired with a nasal drawl–"Is the corn shelled?"
            "It is not," replied the kindly neighbor.
            At this, Sam settled back on the litter, closed his eyes and murmured–"Carry me
                    on."
            A second story relates to a well-meaning, industrious frontier farmer, who was unfortunate enough to
                    experience one calamity after another, until he was so nearly down and out that he had only one
                    shirt left. Having worn it too long to suit his thrifty wife, she persuaded him to go to bed one day so that she could wash the shirt. After the garment had been hanging on the
                    line for about an hour to dry, the wife went out in the back yard to get it, but ran back at once,
                    calling out in great excitement–"John, oh John, the calf has chewed up your
                    shirt."
            Having learned through numerous hard experiences to take each new misfortune calmly, John responded
                    with perfect control–"Thank the Lord, I have little more to lose."26
            
            The majority of the people living in Indiana in 1820 
                  
                     26 I heard my father tell these two stories nearly three score and ten
                            years ago, and he had first heard them at least twenty-five years earlier.
               
                     were persons of character and serious purpose. Most of the
                    families held some tangible assets. There were fine possibilities ahead, though the picture seemed
                    dark at the moment. Business and political leaders had not performed with caution during the boom
                    years, finding it simpler and easier to swim with the current. Following the crash, some of them,
                    having learned from hard experiences, acted with sanity for a period at least. Living in a region
                    with an abundance of unoccupied land and almost untouched natural resources other than land, the
                    economic possibilities were too great for most of the people to be despondent very long. America was
                    young and recovery was certain to come to the pioneer population of Indiana within a reasonable
                    time. Like the other states in the Union, the nineteenth state had an excellent constitution. One of
                    the new states in a democratic nation, Indiana was truly one of the favored provinces of the earth.
                    Though temporarily in a bad way, not too many tears should be shed over her plight in 1820.
            While in the midst of a period of very low prices for local products and high prices for commodities
                    obtained from the outside, the problem of improving transportation facilities became one of great
                    concern. Profits from pork products would be greater even with low prices if the cost of getting
                    hams, shoulders, bacon, and lard to malrkets could be cut down. Finished goods brought in from the
                    outside could be purchased at much lower prices and greater quantities would be bought and used if
                    transportation charges could be lowered. It was hard to build good roads and construct bridges
                    without increasing taxes which there was little chance to do. The people of each neighborhood were
                    accustomed to solve labor problems by co-operating with each other in raising cabins and stables,
                    harvesting and threshing grain, rolling logs, cutting wood, and butchering-hogs.27 Taking a lesson from this, legislators provided that labor in lieu of money should be
                    contributed in the matter of public works. Voters were required to donate time in the building and
                    'repairing of roads and smaller bridges. Larger bridges were constructed with funds 
                  
                     27 There were various other occasions where a pioneer gave help to get
                            help in return. Log-rollings were neighborhood affairs and are best remembered, but there
                            were many others. Often only two families were involved, in activities like cutting wood,
                            splitting rails, building fences, planting corn, etc. Women co-operated too and held sewing
                            bees, apple parings, quilting parties and the like.
               
                     raised by selling bonds. The money with which to meet interest
                    charges on such bonds and with which to retire them eventually was often raised by collecting tolls
                    from those who used the bridges.28
            
            One of the most interesting experiments was the attempt to apply the system of calling out voters to
                    work on the roads to the improvement of stream navigation as well. In 1820 the General Assembly
                    declared most of the streams, little and big, that were found within the settled part of Indiana to
                    be navigable, but did nothing to implement the measure. The main purpose of the bill seems to have
                    been to prevent anyone from doing anything to obstruct the creeks and rivers involved. In 1826
                    several brief laws were passed relating to specific streams–Blue
                    River, Sugar Creek, Busseron Creek, Laughery Creek, Log Lick Creek, Plumb Creek, Big
                    Indian Creek, Lost Creek, the Muscatituck rivers, Patoka River, and the East and West Forks of
                        White River–declaring each of them to be "public
                    highways" and making it legal to "warn" out men of legal age living near
                    such streams to work together towards improving them. Persons refusing to contribute labor were to
                    be fined "fifty cents" each. The improvement of the creeks and rivers designated
                    consisted in "clearing away the timber and other obstructions lying therein and to do and
                    perform any other work which may tend to improve the navigation thereof. …"29 Tree trunks lodged in creeks or rivers were usually referred to as
                    "snags." These were dangerous to boats, as they were often lodged in such a manner
                    that an end would stick up slightly above the water or be barely hidden by it and be very difficult
                    to see. Sandbars often formed during floods and had to be removed.
            Not much ever came of this rosy scheme to make small streams navigable. In fact, there was mainly
                    disappointment in store for hopeful pioneers in regard to every Indiana river save the 
                        Ohio
                    , which washed the southern border of the state. One can understand, though, how men,
                    despairing of building good roads for a long time, should hopefully look on the creeks and rivers as
                    possible substitutes. The beds of many of them 
                  
                     28
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1825–1826, pp. 41–49.
                  
                     29 One is prone to wonder if the pioneers, hard pressed for
                            transportation facilities, could have avoided constructing many of the roads that taxed
                            their resources had they possessed motor-boats which could have been used to tug small
                            flatboats and barges up and down the streams.
               
                     seemed to be highways already constructed for their use with
                    nature furnishing the water. Years passed before the dream, that by building boats that would draw
                    but little water and keeping the streams free of snags and sandbars, the transportation problem
                    could be largely solved with creeks and rivers constituting many of the highways, was
                        surrendered.30
            
            The necessity to provide a transportation system continued to demand a solution and finally led the
                    state to launch her great system of internal improvements. The act, known as the '"Mammoth
                    Bill," was passed in 1836 in the midst of another boom period that overshadowed the one
                    which had collapsed in 1819.31 The panic of 1837 well nigh wrecked the scheme
                    embodied in the internal improvements measure of 1836. The near failure of this ambitious attempt to
                    create an interlocking system of roads and canals left the state burdened with a vast debt which
                    vexed the people and their leaders for a number of years. It is interesting that the extensive
                    system projected in 1836 included but one railroad, the line from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     which was eventually completed.32 The proposal to construct but one
                    railway line, and that one comparatively short, is a testimony to the difficulty of foreseeing what
                    is to happen even in the nealr future. Indiana was to have her transportation problem largely solved
                    by the construction, within a few years of railways, and the little capital city at the mouth of 
                        Fall Creek
                     on the West Fork of White River was to become a noted railroad
                    center.
            The New Purchase, an area comprising about 8,500,000 acres, was acquired from several Indian tribes
                    in 1818. The land surveyors of the federal government began to run lines in the New Purchase in
                    1819. It was in 1820 that Congress abolished the credit feature of the system of selling public
                    lands, which had been so much abused in all the public lands 
                  
                     30 For the internal improvements measure of 1836, see Laws of the State of Indiana, 1835–1836, pp. 6–27. This act
                            was approved January 27, 1836.
                  
                     31 See Wylie J. Daniels, The Village at the End of the
                                Road (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1938). This monograph (112 pp.) which was published as No. 1, Vol. XIII, of
                            Indiana Historical Society Publications, is an interesting study of 
                                Indianapolis
                             in the early period of railroads. It deals with Indiana railroads prior to
                            1860, especially with the 
                                Madison
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             Railway and its relations with 
                                Indianapolis
                             and with other railway lines.
                  
                     32 See Annals of Congress 16 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            2578–2580, for the public lands measure approved April 24, 1820.
               
                     states, including Indiana. Under the new regulations, the
                    minimum price per acre was fixed at one dollar and twenty-five cents, the land purchased to be paid
                    for in full at the time of purchase. This meant a salutary reform, and speculators were much opposed
                    to it. A purchaser could now acquire a homestead of eighty acres for one hundred dollars, if no one
                    should bid against him at the auction sale.33 Following the modifications of
                    1820 in the land legislation, Congress passed several supplementary measures for the relief of those
                    who had earlier purchased land on credit at two dollars per acre, paying one-fourth at the time of
                    purchase. Where forfeiture was necessary, credit was given to those forced to give up land, to the
                    extent of what they had paid, which they could apply on new purchases. The policy of the federal
                    government aided farmers caught by the crash of 1819, and made it easier for them to make another
                    start. The new policy of selling lands and the aid given to discouraged farmers and others in debt
                    for lands purchased in the boom period that closed in 1819, relieved somewhat the gloom caused by
                    the panic and depression. It should be added that much the greater part of the land of Indiana was
                    reduced to private ownership between 1820 and 1860.
            It was in the year 1820, when the economic conditions in the settlements of Indiana were so serious,
                    that the General Assembly appointed a commission to select a site for a permanent state capital, for
                    which Congress had voted to grant a free tract of four square miles. This commission selected the
                    spot where 
                        Indianapolis
                     now stands. At the time, the first colonists had just arrived in the vicinity.34 The locations of many of the world's cities were selected by keen
                    men who sensed the strategic importance of the sites chosen, and eloquent passages have been written
                    about the foresight displayed in the locating of 
                        Rome
                    , Constantinople, 
                  London, New York
                City, and other noted centers of
                    population, commerce 
                  
                     33 A good, brief account of the selection of the site of 
                                Indianapolis
                             can be found in John H. B. Nowland, Early Reminiscences of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1870), 9–10. The father of Mr. Nowland accompanied the
                            commissioners who selected the site though he was not a member of the commission. The
                            Nowland family located in 
                                Indianapolis
                             very soon after the site was selected.
                  
                     34 Mildred C. Stoler (ed.), "The Removal of the State Capital
                            to 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History XXVII (1931),
                            240–243. See for two accounts of the "'removal," one by Mary
                            Catherine Naylor and another by Samuel Merrill, state treasurer.
               
                     culture, and power. One wonders whether any of the
                    commissioners who helped to decide where the capital of Indiana should stand had even a dream that
                    the point selected would become the "Cross-Roads of America." The government
                    records and office furniture were moved from Corydon to the "village in the
                    woods," late in the fall of 1824. The history of 
                        Indianapolis
                     since that transfer of the state government makes it necessary to say that the leaders
                    of the new state deserve high praise for performing so well when they selected a site for the
                    permanent capital of Indiana in 1820, a year of unrest and discouragement.
            Much time was required for the development of a banking system in Indiana, and the final outcome has
                    been in reality more the work of the federal government than that of the state. This was more or
                    less inevitable. As to business cycles, they have been nation-wide or world-wide. Certain it is that
                    Indiana since 1820 has passed through the cycles centered around the panics of 1837, 1857, 1873,
                    1893, and 1929. In each instance, as in the case of the cycle of 1813 to 1825, there was a boom
                    period, a crash, a depression, and then a slow recovery. The story is composed of a number of sad
                    chapters, and it must be admitted that our business cycles grow bigger and worse, as the generations
                    go by, not bigger and better according to the boasted American pattern.
            Recovery has followed in the wake of each of the later depressions as was true following the hard
                    times of the early eighteen twenties. What has been pointed out relative to the certainty of a
                    return of prosperity following the dark year of 1820, is not to be taken as a defense of the long
                    and persistently held American belief that no matter what happens to our country, the people will
                    always work their way out. It is true that they have always done.so, after a fashion, but this does
                    not prove that such devastating economic experiences are beneficial to any people nor that they must
                    be endured. Acceptance of booms, crashes, and depressions as inevitable is worthy only of a
                    sluggish, unthinking people, unwilling to discipline themselves. It is not a sane policy  merely to permit nature to take her course. In truth the fundamental
                    barrier in the way of conquering business cycles is that nearly everyone involved in business loves
                    periods of rising prices, increasing production, expanding trade and greater profits. However,
                    unless booms can be eliminated, panics and depressions are certainties. In other words, the only way
                    to banish panics and depressions is to banish booms or regulate them rigidly.
            It is easy to contend that business cycles run according to the natural laws of economics, hence
                    nothing can be done about them. The truth seems to be that booms grow to dangerous proportions
                    because of a false psychology that seizes the people, the greatest offenders being powerful economic
                    elements who value great, present returns more highly than the economic safety of the general
                    public. It is not necessary that self-interest shall be replaced by altruism, but that men shall be
                    keen enough to recognize that even self-interest demands that prices, production, trade and profits
                    shall be kept as steady as possible. Further, even greedy interests should realize that gigantic
                    economic dislocations are a menace to the political and social order.
            In a period of panic and depression there are some who seem to sustain great losses who really lose
                    little, since what they are obliged to surrender is mostly paper wealth that has come easy and goes
                    easy. There are many others whose misfortunes are real, but who after making adjustments, can again
                    go ahead with a promise of reasonable success. There are other groups who lose much dr all of what
                    they have accumulated and are barred by advancing age or declining health from ever staging a
                    comeback. Finally, there are hosts of people who lose their jobs or their businesses and have little
                    or nothing to go on for longer or shorter periods. These classes have small responsibility for
                    bringing on the calamities that overwhelm them and few opportunities to extricate themselves from
                    the forces that grip them. Such conditions are destructive of the physical well-being, the morale
                    and the civic pride of a large part of the population.
            The sound old adage that an "ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure" needs to
                    be invoked and become a controlling factor at the beginning of every business boom, especially under
                    the complex economic and social regime of today. When it does become the guiding principle, a vast
                         majority of American citizens will be willing and anxious
                    to forego business booms in order to avoid panics and depressions. Deadly diseases such as smallpox,
                    diphtheria, and tuberculosis have been brought under control, and we are proud of what has been
                    accomplished. Unless we can do as much to control the forces that cause economic crashes and
                    likewise wars, we cannot rate human intelligence very highly. Those of us who voice this contention
                    are just sane, open-minded men and women, not alarmists.
            In conclusion, I must add that I would feel guilty of being untrue to the American people were I not
                    to say what the experiences of my life and the study of history have taught me–that
                    democracy and capitalism are both in grave danger of destruction in this splendid country of ours,
                    unless our captains of industry and our financial giants shall acquire the wisdom to join with other
                    responsible citizens to control booms and thereby eliminate panics and depressions. So gigantic and
                    paralyzing have periodic dislocations in our economic system become that it is perilous to risk
                    another. It need not be pointed out that fundamental disturbances in our economic system are sure to
                    be speedily reflected in our social and political life. It surely cannot be possible that Americans
                    will permit the noblest and best results of new world history to be lost by speeding along a smooth,
                    broad road towards a precipice when the stop-signs are all in plain view.
         
         
         
            The Great Migration and the Whitewater Valley
            
                    Chelsea L. Lawlis
                    ⋆
                
            The early migration of settlers into the Whitewater Valley in southeastern Indiana continued until
                    the beginning of the War of 1812. It peopled that portion of Indiana Territory known as the Gore,
                    which was located between the western boundary of 
                        Ohio
                     and the Greenville Treaty Line, and the twelve mile strip beyond its western border,
                    which Harrison persuaded the Indians to cede in the Treaty of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in 1809.1
            
            The increase in population and territory warranted a division of 
                        Dearborn County
                     and the formation of 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Franklin
                     counties, which measure took effect January 1, 1811. 
                        Brookville
                    , at the forks of the Whitewater, was chosen, December 5, 1811, as the county seat of 
                        Franklin County
                    , by the commissioners James Adair, David Hoover, and Elijah Sparks. 
                        Salisbury
                     was designated by John Cox, George Holman, and John Addenton as the county town for 
                        Wayne County
                     which included the northern part of the valley.2
            
            The land released for settlement by the Twelve Mile Purchase was thrown open in 1811 at the land
                    office in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . This purchase became the heart of what was later 
                  Fayette, Franklin
               , and 
                        Wayne
                     counties and included 
                  
                     ⋆ Chelsea L. Lawlis is a member of the 
                                Carlisle
                             High School Faculty, 
                                Carlisle
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 This earlier migration has been described in Chelsea L. Lawlis,
                            "Settlement of the Whitewater Vallley, 1790–1810," in the Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905- ), XLIII (1947), 23–40.
                  
                     2 The division of 
                                Dearborn County
                             is described as follows: "Be it further enacted,
                            That the tract of country included within the aforesaid boundaries [part of 
                                Dearborn
                             north of the Grouseland Treaty line and township seven], be, and the same is
                            hereby divided into two separate and distinct counties by a line beginning at the corner of
                            townships number eleven and twelve, on the line of the state of 
                                Ohio
                            , and from thence due west, until the same intersects the line of the western
                            boundary of the before mentioned purchase of fort 
                                Wayne
                            , and that from and after the first day of February, one thousand eight hundred
                            and eleven, the tract of country falling within the southern division thereof shall be known
                            and designated by the name and style of the county of 
                                Franklin
                            ; and the northern division thereof shall be known and designated by the name
                            and style of the county of 
                                Wayne
                            . … " Louis B. Ewbank and Dorothy L. Riker (eds.), Laws of Indiana Territory, Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916- ), XX (1934), 108–109; George Pence and Nellie C. Armstrong,
                                Indiana Boundaries, Indiana Historical Collections,
                            XIX (1933), 354, 838.
               
                     the watershed of the West Fork of the Whitewater River. It is
                    certain that many squatters lived in the Twelve Mile Purchase even before the land was surveyed.
                    This statement is borne out by Smith Hunt, an early settler of 
                        Wayne County
                     . In what is now 
                        Fayette County
                     , entries were made in 
                  Columbia,
                            Connersville
               , Harrison, Jennings, and Posey
                    townships in 1811. In 
                        Columbia
                     Township the majority of the entries were made along the water courses, and most of the
                    early settlers in this township migrated from 
                        Kentucky
                    . To 
                        Connersville
                     Township came Alexander Saxon from 
                        Georgia
                     and John Perin from 
                        Massachusetts
                     in 1811. In what is now Harrison Township, 
                        Wayne County
                     , Samuel Boyd, of 
                        Tennessee
                    , settled in 1811, and in 
                        Washington
                     Township Thomas Symonds, a North Carolinian, settled during the same year. In 
                        Franklin County
                    , Blooming Grove, Metamora, Salt Creek, and 
                        Laurel
                     townships were first entered during this year.3
            
            The War of 1812 placed a definite check upon immigration into the Whitewater Valley, although some
                    settlers braved the Indian dangers and proceeded to their new sites. As far as actual battles were
                    concerned, there were none in this region. Alarms, a few instances of scalping, and several murders
                    disturbed the peace. Hunt speaks of the Indian menace: "When the Indians commenced stealing
                    horses, the people became much alarmed—some left for the settlements from whence they
                    came and others moved into block houses."4 There was enough of a state
                    of apprehension, however, to keep the settlers on the alert and in forts and blockhouses built for
                    their protection. The typical fort was constructed of two rows of timbers, twelve to fourteen feet
                    long, planted two and one-half to three feet deep. Timbers of the second row covered the cracks of
                    the first. Small cabins were erected inside the fort to accommodate the families, and there was at
                    least one blockhouse inside each fort. The blockhouses were two stories high, the upper story
                    projecting about two feet over the lower. There were port holes 
                  
                     3 J. L. Heineman, The Indian Trail Down the White Water
                                Valley (n.p., 1912), 6; Frederic I. Barrows (ed.), History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                 , Indiana . . . (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1917), 79, 214–263; 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium, October 18, 1855; Andrew W. Young, History of 
                                    Wayne County
                                 , Indiana (
                        Cincinnati,
                                    Ohio
                     , 1872), 232, 314; August
                            .f. Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1915), 138, 172, 176, 187.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium, October 18, 1855.
               
                     in the upper and lower stories and also in the floor of the
                    projection, in case the Indians succeeded in getting to the wall of the blockhouse. The latter was
                    located at one corner of the fort; if there were two, the second was situated in the opposite
                        corner.5
            
            In 
                        Franklin County
                     the Indians were quite numerous in 1812, so at least twelve blockhouses were erected
                    for protection and cabins were fortified. There is no record of any occasion for using either, yet
                    several people were reported killed. In the 
                        Connersville
                     region, the Indians were very hostile in the year 1812, yet there were no open
                    hostilities. For their own defense the settlers built blockhouses. George Manlove, who was the
                    earliest settler of Posey Township (1811), feared Indian trouble and returned to his former home in
                    Preble County, 
                        Ohio
                    . David Hoover, in his memoir, states that many settlers in the Twelve Mile Purchase
                    were forced to leave because of the Indian menace.6
            
            The Quakers encountered difficulties other than those arising from the Indian menace. Their
                    opposition to bearing arms caused a conflict with the authorities. David Hoover relates some of the
                    misfortunes of an old man: "The gentlemen officers took up an old man by the name of Jacob
                    Elliot who had said something against the war and tryed him for treason, found him guilty and
                    sentenced him to be shot, but gave him a chance to run away in the dark, they firing off their guns
                    to scare him off." Hoover speaks of four young men who received less humane treatment:
                        
                        Four young men were thrown into the county jails in extreme cold weather for refusing to
                            comply with some of their orders and fire [was] denied them and had it not been for the
                            humane feelings of David F. Sackett who handed them hot bricks through the grates they must
                            have suffered severely .… The four young men brought suit for false imprisonment,
                            the trials were held at 
                                Brookville
                            , where they all recovered damages and costs were paid by money made by the sale
                            of property of other friends who had their property sacrifised.7
                  
                    
            
            Henry Hoover, a 
                        Quaker
                    , was drafted to perform military 
                  
                     5 Interstate Publishing Co., History of 
                                    Wayne County
                                 , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), I, 383.
                  
                     6 Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana, 275; Barrows (ed.), History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                 , Indiana, 137, 263–264; "Memoir of David
                            Hoover," in Henry C. Fox, Memoirs of 
                                    Wayne County
                                 and the city of 
                                    Richmond
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     ,
                            1912), I, 545.
                  
                     7 David Hoover to Charles F. Coffin, October 20, 1855.
               
                     service and his refusal resulted in the following punishment:
                    "For this disobedience I was fined, and the sergeant drove off sixteen sheep and sold them
                    to pay the fine—and yet I have not applied for a land warrant." Henry berates
                    the military for the mistreatment of the Friends because of their refusal to perform military duty.
            
                    The years 1812, '13, and '14 on a small scale was a reign of terror—some were put in
                        jail because they would not help to eat 
                            United States
                         beef and drink Uncle Sam's whisky, as though a man's of service
                        to his country while in jail—and during these winters, the poor settlers who refused
                        to leave their families on the extreme frontiers, had their axes, plows, saws, and farming
                        implements taken by an officer, and deposited in a building irt 
                            Salisbury
                        , and when more room was wanted they sold the articles on hand, and had a first rate
                        jubilee over the poor 
                            Quaker
                        's property and buckets of new whisky.8
               
                
            Although the Whitewater Valley was disturbed during the war by troubles with the Indians, fears of
                    possible events more serious than those which occurred, and persecutions of the pacific Friends, the
                    Indian menace was removed and migration was resumed. The movement of people into this valley was
                    common to most of the West. Along the roads through the Appalachians, came persons from 
                        Georgia
                     to New 
                        England
                    , traveling in wagons, on horseback or afoot. This migration, in contrast to later
                    movements, was composed of a large percentage of persons from the Middle Atlantic and Southern
                    states and was so large that it is called the Great Migration. Many came to the Old Northwest and
                    the Whitewater Valley was the destination of several thousand.
            References to the large migration to 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana in 1814 are found in letters and newspapers of the day.0 Jeremy Mansur, a young man from 
                        New Hampshire
                    , came on horseback to 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1813, moved a little later to 
                  Hamilton, Butler
                County, 
                        Ohio
                    , and finally came to 
                  Salisbury, Wayne County
                , Indiana, in 1814.10
                    Apparently many also 
                  
                     8 Speech of Henry Hoover, in 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium, September 20, 1855. A typewritten copy
                            is in the William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     9 "John Badollet to John Gardiner, November 18,
                            1814," in Clarence E. Carter (comp. and ed.), The Territorial Papers
                                of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1934- ), The Territory of Indiana, 1810–1816,
                            VIII (1939), 315; Governor Thomas Posey to the Secretary of War in Logan Esarey (ed.), Messages and Letters of William Henry Harrison, Indiana Historical Collections, IX (1922), 648; and Niles' Weekly Register (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1811–1837), VI (July 9, 1814), 320.
                  
                     10 Young, History of 
                                    Wayne County
                                 , Indiana, 188.
               
                     came in 1815.u A territorial census taken
                    in 1815 revealed that 
                        Wayne County
                     boasted a population of 6,290 and 
                        Franklin County
                     7,970 persons, making a total of 14,260 in the Whitewater Valley—a figure
                    almost double the population of 
                        Dearborn County
                     five years before and almost three times the approximate population of the valley.12
            
            Travelers noted large numbers on the roads the following year.13 Morris Birkbeck
                    marveled at the "vast tide of emigration that is flowing farther west" than 
                        Cincinnati
                     and observed that "Old America seems to be breaking up, and moving
                    westward" in 1817.14 The migration seems to have continued through 1818
                    and 1819, perhaps decreasing the latter year. References to the movement of settlers were not found
                    in the papers and letters of 1820, and it is thought that the economic crisis of 1819 brought this
                    large movement to a close.
            During this decade there was a continued immigration of people from the Southern states, especially
                    the Quakers. In the year 1812 there was a direct migration of Quakers from northeastern 
                        North Carolina
                     to Whitewater, Indiana. Between the years 1811 and 1820 there were 244 removal
                    certificates to Indiana from the Southern states, the majority originating in 
                        North Carolina
                    . This is a considerable migration when one takes into account the fact that these
                    certificates were issued only to family heads. Whitewater Monthly 
                  
                     11 Timothy Flint, Recollections of the Last Ten
                            Years (
                                Boston
                            , 1826), 40; Tilly Buttrick, Jr., "Voyages, Travel and
                            Discoveries," in Reuben G. Thwaites (ed.), Early Western Travels,
                                1748–1864 (32 vols., 
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     ,
                            1904–1907), VIII (1904), 57; Niles' Weekly Register, VII
                            (January 28, 1815), 350; ibid., VIII (April 15, 1815), 120; ibid., IX (August 12, 1815), 420, (November 4, 1815), 171, (November 11, 1815),
                            186.
                  
                     12
                            Niles' Weekly Register, IX (November 11, 1816), 186; Samuel R. 
                                Brown
                            , The Western Gazetteer; or Emigrant's Directory
                                … (
                        Auburn, New York
                     , 1817), 51; Lawlis,
                            "Settlement of the Whitewater Valley," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XLIII, 39. A great deal of northern 
                                Wayne County
                             was not in the Whitewater Valley at this time, but this section was not very
                            populous.
                  
                     13
                     Niles' Weekly Register, XI (November 23, 1816),
                            208; John Bradbury, Travels in the Interior of America (Liverpool, 1817),
                            309–310; Morris Birkbeck, Notes of A Journey in America
                                    (
                        Dublin, Ireland
                     , 1818), 64.
                  
                     14 Birkbeck, Notes of A Journey in America, 85,
                            35–36, and 27–28; Henry B. Fearon, Sketches of
                            America (
                        London, England
                     , 1818), 187–189, 190–192, 196,
                            and 281; Niles' Weekly Register, XIII (September 6, 1817), 30;
                                    
                        Kaskaskia, Illinois
                     , Western Intelligencer,
                            October 23, and December 18, 1817.
               
                     Meeting received 117 of these certificates, and other meetings
                    in the valley received twenty-four.15
            
            Lois K. Mathews in her Expansion of New 
                            England
                        , stated that Indiana did not receive large numbers of New Englanders, and the
                    Whitewater Valley was not an exception to this generalization. Some of the 
                        Wayne County
                     Quakers were descendants of Nantucket and Cape Cod families who settled in Guilford,
                    Rockland, Chatham, and Rockingham counties in 
                        North Carolina
                     or Blount, Sevier, 
                        Greene
                    , and Jefferson counties in 
                        Tennessee
                    . Miss Mathews asserted that the presence of the Southern element in Indiana deterred
                    the New Englander from settling there: "Indiana was never a favorite stopping-place for the
                    New Englanders, for the Southern element was strong here, and the Virginian or Kentuckian was apt to
                    confuse the shrewd unscrupulous ‘Yankee peddler’ of cheap clocks with the
                    substantial 
                        Connecticut
                     farmer, and to treat the two alike."16
            
            Miss Mathews attributed the New 
                        England
                     migration to the West to: (1) search for cheap and fertile land, (2) social, political
                    or religious discontent, and (3) development of the West by steamboat navigation.17 A New 
                        England
                     Emigration Society was formed at 
                        Boston
                     to promote westward migration. The association seemed to be composed of "a
                    considerable number of persons of all parties" who desired to establish a colony. According
                    to Jonathan Russell, they were fleeing from "the pestilential atmosphere of British
                        influence."18
            
            Near the close of this decade several families from the New 
                        England
                     states came and settled chiefly in the northwestern part of Harrison Township, 
                        Fayette County
                     , and founded what was then called "Yankeetown." Among them were
                    Elder Minor Thomas, Joshua Wightsman, Elder Minor Meeker, Eleazer Carver, Francis Ellinwood, and
                        others.19
            
            Between 1810 and 1820 there was an emigration to 
                        Franklin County
                     from 
                  New York, New Jersey
               , and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . 
                  
                     15 Stephen B. Weeks, Southern Quakers and Slavery, A
                                Study in Institutional History, in Johns Hopkins University Studies in
                                Historical and Political Science (
                        Baltimore, Maryland
                     ,
                            1883- ), Extra Vol. XV (1896), 261, 269–270.
                  
                     16 Lois K. Mathews, Expansion of New 
                                    England
                                
                      (
                                Boston
                            , 1909), 199, 254.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., 259, 261, 271.
                  
                     18
                            Niles' Weekly Register, VIII (March 18, 1815), 39.
                  
                     19 Barrows (ed.), History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                 , Indiana, 237.
               
                     Mixed in among the others were a few Hessians, assimilated into
                    the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Dutch. 
                        Fayette County
                     received several from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1814 and 1815.20
            
            Emigration from Europe to the Whitewater Valley was small in this decade. The Napoleonic wars had
                    checked the coming of most Europeans to this country, but it was resumed in 1816. Most of the
                    persons emigrating from 
                        England
                     in 1816, according to English newspapers, were farmers and mechanics. In 1817 it
                    required a small fortune for a man to leave the British dominions with his family. Ships were
                    limited in passenger capacity, and the cost of a passage was proportionately dear. This virtually
                    prohibited emigration to the poor and denied it absolutely to mechanics and manufacturers.21
            
            Emigration was stimulated in 
                        Germany
                     by bad harvests and liberal changes in expatriation laws. Colonization societies were
                    formed, motivated by private interests or by the influence of religious or political considerations.
                    First traces of these were between 1818 and 1820.22
            
            William Cobbett, in Cobbett's Register in 1815, said that there was no
                    doubt about the happiness of America, where the population and resources were increasing so rapidly
                    and the government demanded only one-twelfth as much as in 
                        England
                    . He warned the people, however, that they could not expect to lead an idle life.
                    Sinecure placemen, pensioners, grandees, venal newspaper writers and reviewers, puffers, parasites,
                    and quacks in every department would do better to remain at home. Of the three professions, lawyers,
                    clergy, and doctors, the latter would find migration the more advantageous. The life of a farmer,
                    said Cobbett, was a hard and rugged one:
            
                    The big bellied farmers, that require a stout horse or a strong gig to carry them about their
                        fields to see what their men are doing, had better remain here [
                            England
                        ] till lower prices and the tax-gatherer have sweated them into a reasonable bulk
                        and weight, for though the land in America produces very fine things, it will not produce much
                        without labour; and, as laborers for hire are very scarce, 
                     
                        20
                                Ibid., 252; Michael Bossert, "Early Schools of 
                                    Franklin County
                                ," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVI (1930), 218.
                     
                        21
                        Niles' Weekly Register, X (July 27, 1816),
                                366; ibid., XII (August 2, 1817), 359.
                     
                        22 Edith Abbott, Historical Aspects of the
                                    Immigration Problem (
                                    Chicago
                                , 1926), 148.
                  
                         the farmer must labor himself, or his sons and daughters
                        must labor for him.23
               
                
            Many persons of 
                        England
                     and 
                        Ireland
                     were misled by advertisements which bespoke of Utopian conditions in the 
                        United States
                    . One such advertisement assured the people that they would certainly find immediate
                    employment as soon as they arrived; laborers would receive five to eight shillings per day and
                    tradesmen would earn twelve to twenty shillings per day. Five guineas were charged for the trip, but
                    the passenger was to provide food and everything else necessary for his comfort. Children were
                    allowed to go at half price.24
            
            During the latter part of this period there were local settlements of Englishmen who came directly to 
                        Franklin County
                    . An example of the Irish immigrant is James McClure, Sr., who came to the 
                        United States
                     in 1819. He was a native of County Sligo, 
                        Ireland
                    , settling in 
                        Brookville
                     Township as a farmer.25
            
            An indication of the rapid growth of the Whitewater Valley can be gained from an examination of the
                    number of towns plotted during this decade. 
                        Brookville
                    , in 
                        Franklin County
                    , had been laid out in 1808. 
                        Fairfield
                    , in the same county, was plotted in 1815, Union in 1816, and New Trenton also in 1816.
                    Further up the Valley in what is now Union County, the new towns formed were 
                        Brownsville
                     in 1815 and Dunlapsville in 1817. In what was later 
                        Fayette County
                     , 
                        Connersville
                     was laid out and recorded at 
                        Brookville
                     in 1813. It was named after John Conner, around whose trading post it had grown up.
                    Conner had come to this site in 1808. 
                        Wayne County
                     gave birth to two future county seats and three other towns: 
                        Centerville
                     (second county seat), 1814; Jacksonburgh, 1815; 
                        Richmond
                     (third county seat), 1816; Abington, 1817; and 
                        Newport
                    , 1818.26
            
            Immediately after Indiana became a state, 
                        Brookville
                    
                    
                  
                     23
                            Niles' Weekly Register, IX (December 30, 1815), 314–315.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., XVII (October 16,' 1819), 112.
                  
                     25 Fernandez C. Holliday, Indiana Methodism
                                    (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1873), 91; Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana, 693.
                  
                     26 Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana, 113, 131, 161, 193; Atlas of Union County,
                                Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 47–48, 58; Barrows (ed.), History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                 , Indiana, 107; Charles N. Thompson, Sous of the
                                Wilderness, John and William Conner, Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1895- ), XII (1937), 51; Young, History of 
                                    Wayne County
                                 , Indiana, 148, 166–167, 235, 298, 359.
               
                     achieved high rank among the manufacturing centers of the West.
                    Gristmills, a sawmill, a fulling mill, a tannery, a ropewalk, a carding mill, a hat factory, a
                    pottery factory, and shops of tailors, blacksmiths, carpenters, shoemakers, saddlers, harnessmakers,
                    weavers, and wagonmakers came into existence. There were many stores and a thriving bank. Trade was
                    facilitated by the Whitewater River, 
                        Brookville
                     being located in its forks. The river was navigable to the 
                        Ohio
                     by boats of shallow draft.27 Samuel R. 
                        Brown
                    , in The Western Gazetteer, or Emigrant's Directory stated
                    that 
                        Brookville
                     had only ten or twelve houses at the end of the war. The growth from that time to 1817
                    was phenomenal for it then had "upwards of eighty buildings, exclusive of shops, stables
                    and out houses. … " Most of these had been erected in the last season. Her
                    industries included: 
                        one grist mill, two saw mills, two fulling- mills, three carding machines, one printing
                            office, one silversmith, two saddlers, two cabinet makers, one hatter, two taylors, four
                            boot and shoemakers, two tanners and curriers, one chairmaker, one cooper, five taverns, and
                            seven stores. There are also a jail, a market house, and a handsome brick court house nearly
                                finished.28
                  
                    
            
            Little material exists which gives an adequate description of roads and travel within the valley
                    during this period, but it is not likely that there had been much improvement in either. It is known
                    that the laying out arid establishing of roads occupied much of the commissioners' time.29
            
            John Macamy Wasson, who was an early inhabitant of 
                        Wayne County
                     , relates that roads about 1815 were merely bridle paths or blazed trails through the
                    woods. In some instances they were wide enough to permit a wagon to pass through. It is not likely
                    that Wasson had a personal recollection of road conditions, since he was too young, yet his
                    statement is, no doubt, based upon reliable information. He described the various conveyances used
                    by the immigrants.
            
                    The wagons and carts having semi-circle bows over the bodies of the vehicles, with cotton or
                        tow-linen stretched over to shelter from the storm or sun; others having no such conveyance came
                        on horseback, some with their wives behind them. Others that could afford it had 
                     
                        27 Hubert M. Skinner, "
                                    Brookville
                                's Rounded Century—June, 1908," Indiana Magazine of History, VI (1910), 83.
                     
                        28
                                
                                    Brown
                                , The Western Gazetteer; or Emigrant's Directory,
                                53–54.
                     
                        29 Reifel, History of 
                                        Franklin County
                                    , Indiana, 245; Atlas of Union County, Indiana,
                                11.
                  
                         side-saddles for their wives and daughters, yet a goodly
                        number came as pedestrians, and in some instances barefooted.30
               
                
            Philip and Horatio 
                        Mason
                     of 
                        Massachusetts
                     used several different means of travel before reaching their new home, 
                        Laurel
                    . They set off for Indiana in March, 1816, in sleighs, which they exchanged later for
                    wagons, and traveled to Olean Point on the Allegheny River. After a journey by raft down the 
                        Ohio
                    , they arrived at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . From this point they went by wagon up the Taylor Creek Road to Harrison, thence on to 
                        Laurel
                    . According to Philip, the roads were very bad. He also recorded that the early settlers
                    of the Whitewater Valley were dependent upon 
                        Cincinnati
                     as a source for supplies. They drew all their salt, iron, and other commodities from
                    that place. It was necessary to haul these articles sixty miles over roads that were mere paths. A
                    public highway was indicated by three notches cut into a tree.31
            
            The decade 1810–1820 witnessed a spread of the influence of the Baptists, Methodists, and
                    Quakers, and the introduction of new sects into the Whitewater Valley.
            In 
                        Wayne County
                     the Quakers were becoming a closely knit, powerful religious force. It has been shown
                    that the flow of colonists belonging to this sect had greatly increased. Meetings were set up in two
                    other counties, Union and 
                        Fayette
                    , during this period. Records of the Silver Creek Monthly Meeting in Center Township,
                    Union County, reveal that a monthly meeting was held, beginning May 16, 1817, but it is believed
                    that it was held previous to this date. A preparative meeting was held at 
                        Salem
                     in the same township in 1819. In Jackson Township, 
                        Fayette County
                     , the only 
                        Quaker
                     church ever to exist in the county was organized in 1818 or 1819. About 1820 
                        Quaker
                     immigration increased so rapidly that a yearly meeting was set up at Whitewater.32
            
            The Baptists invaded the lands opened by the Twelve Mile Purchase and as early as 1814 had three
                    definite congregations 
                  
                     30 John M. Wasson, Annals of Pioneer Settlers on the
                                Whitewater … 1804–1830 (
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, 1875), 23–24.
                  
                     31 Philip 
                                Mason
                            , Autobiography and Essays (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                            1868), 92–103, 370; Barrows (ed.), History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                 , Indiana, 216.
                  
                     32 "Minutes of the Whitewater Quarterly Meeting, held on the
                            5th of the 4th month, 1817," quoted in Atlas of Union County,
                            Indiana, 37; Barrows (ed.), History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                 , Indiana, 444; Wasson, Annals of Pioneer Settlers on the
                                Whitewater, 23.
               
                     in what later became 
                        Fayette County
                     . They were 
                        Franklin
                     Church, near Nulltown; New Bethel, in Jennings Township; and Lick Creek, near 
                        Harrisburg
                    . Some of the members of the latter church were from the Little Cedar Grove Baptist
                    Church in 
                        Franklin County
                    .33
            
            Methodism, too, expanded during this period, yet it was apparently somewhat slower in forming
                    congregations in the Twelve Mile Purchase than the Baptists. There were no actual Methodist
                    congregations before the early twenties, but classes had been formed previous to this time. It is
                    known that David Sharpe preached occasionally at a Mr. Tharpe's, near 
                        Connersville
                     in 1813. The first Methodist church of 
                        Connersville
                     traces its origin to a class which was probably organized in 1818. Mt. Zion, in Jackson
                    Township, 
                        Fayette County
                     , had a log church by 1820. To the east, in what is now Union County, there was
                    Methodist preaching in 
                        Brownsville
                     as early as 1815.34
            
            During this decade, Presbyterianism came to the Whitewater Valley. The first Presbyterian minister
                    was Samuel Baldridge, a Virginian, who had spent some time in 
                        Tennessee
                     before coming to Indiana. From 1810 to 1814, he served as an itinerant preacher in the
                    Whitewater Valley traveling from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     to Dunlapsville. Between 1816 and 1825 several Presbyterian families, chiefly from 
                        New Jersey
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , who had moved to 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Mt. Carmel
                    , in 
                        Franklin County
                    , organized churches at 
                  Brookville,
                            Mt. Carmel, Somerset
                and 
                        Bath
                    . In this same period two young ministers from the East, Adams W. Piatt, of 
                        New York
                    , and William B. Barton, of 
                        New Jersey
                    , came as missionaries. After spending three or four years traveling between 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and 
                        Richmond
                    , they returned to their native states.35
            
            A few of the Catholic faith lived in the Valley at this time. John Conner, the founder of 
                        Connersville
                    , was taught by Catholic priests at 
                        Detroit
                    . Thomas Hinkston, of County Cavan, 
                        Ireland
                    , entered land in 1811 and 1814 in what is now 
                        Fayette County
                     , and Charles Donavan and Thomas O'Brien, both Catholics, also lived in that
                        county.36
            
            
               
                  33 Barrows (ed.), History of 
                                Fayette County
                             , Indiana, 411, 415.
               
                  34
                  Ibid., 399–407; Atlas of Union
                            County, Indiana, 47.
               
                  35 L. D. Potter, "Early History of Presbyterianism in the
                        Whitewater Valley," Indiana Magazine of History, V (1909),
                        29–30.
               
                  36 Barrows (ed.), History of 
                                Fayette County
                             , Indiana, 448–449.
            
            
            Another denomination, the Christian church, also came to the Whitewater region in this period and
                    organized the Silver Creek Christian Church on November 8, 1816, in Liberty Township, in what became
                    Union County.37
            
            There does not appear to have been any significant changes in education during this period, but the
                    good intentions of the leaders are quite evident in the provisions of the new state constitution of
                    1816. The authors of the document made it incumbent upon the General Assembly to provide for the
                    improvement of school lands and to apply any funds which might be raised from them, or from any
                    other source, to the "grand object for which they are or may be tended." Monies
                    received from the sale of school lands were to constitute a school fund to be used to promote
                    "the interest of Literature, and the sciences, and for the support of seminaries and public
                    schools." In addition, it was their duty, as soon as circumstances permitted, to provide by
                    law for a general educational system—from township schools to a state university, wherein
                    tuition was to be free to all. Militia exemption duties were to be used for the support of
                    seminaries in the counties where they were assessed.38
            
            
               
                        Brookville
                     opened its first school in the old log courthouse in 1816. Early teachers realized
                    little in the way of compensation for their pedagogical efforts. An old copy of an
                    "articles of agreement," which was customarily drawn up between the teacher and
                    thei parents of the pupils, shows how John Collins, a teacher in 
                        Franklin County
                     in 1816, agreed to teach the three R's; for six months at his home in return
                    for four dollars per scholar, one-half in money and the balance in corn, wheat, pork, beef, or
                        bacon.39
            
            Numerous boundary changes occurred during the last three years of this decade. The first alteration
                    was made by a statute approved on January 10, 1818, which became law on August 10, 1818. At that
                    time 
                        Wayne County
                     lost some of its territory to 
                        Randolph County
                    , which was formed by this division. 
                        Centerville
                     had been named to replace 
                  
                     37 "Records of the Silver Creek Church," quoted in
                                Atlas of Union County, Indiana, 67.
                  
                     38 Charles Kettleborough, Constitution Making in
                            Indiana, Indiana Historical Collections, I (1916),
                            113–114.
                  
                     39 Bossert, "Early Schools of 
                                Franklin County
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVI, 222;
                            "Articles of agreement between John Collins & his Imployers,"
                            quoted in Reifel, History of Fraklin County, Indiana,
                        372–373.
               
                    
                    
                        Salisbury
                     as the capital of 
                        Wayne County
                     , December 21, 1816.40 On December 28, 1818, a new county, 
                        Fayette
                    , was formed from 
                        Franklin
                     and 
                        Wayne
                     counties and the New Purchase, which will be discussed in the paragraphs which follow.
                    The new county was bounded roughly by 
                        Franklin County
                     on the south, the Greenville Treaty line on the east, 
                        Wayne County
                     and unorganized territory on the north, and unorganized territory on the west. 
                        Connersville
                     was officially approved as the county seat, February 7, 1819. This same statute added a
                    section of the New Purchase to the northwest corner of 
                        Wayne County
                     .41 A law of January 20, 1820, added New Purchase territory to 
                        Franklin County
                    .42
            
            The fourth and final Indian cession which gave the white man title to the rest of the land which now
                    comprises the Whitewater Valley was made at St. Mary's, 
                        Ohio
                    , on October 3 and 6, 1818, more commonly referred to as the New Purchase. On the former
                    date the 
                        Delaware
                     Indians ceded all their land in Indiana to the 
                        United States
                    . The Miami tribe ceded a large tract of land in central Indiana to the 
                        United States
                     on the latter date.43
            
            It is interesting to note that, in return for the cession, the 
                        United States
                     agreed to pay an annuity of fifteen thousand dollars, 160 bushels of salt yearly, and
                    promised to build a gristmill and a sawmill for the Miami Indians.44 The
                    cession- affected all three counties existing at that time.
            The opening of the New Purchase lands after the treaty 
                  
                     40
                            Special Laws of the State of Indiana, 1817–1818, p. 18; Pence
                            and Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries, Indiana Historical Collections, XIX, 840.
                  
                     41
                     Laws of the State of Indiana,
                            1818–1819, pp. 103–104, 106–107; Pence and Armstrong,
                                Indiana Boundaries, Indiana Historical Collections,
                            XIX, 338, 842.
                  
                     42 Laws of the State of Indiana,
                            1819–1820, p. 95; Pence and Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries,
                            Indiana Historical Collections, XIX, 358.
                  
                     43
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, VII, 188–192. The following tract was
                            ceded by the Miami: "Beginning at the Wabash River, where the
                            present Indiana boundary line crosses the same, near the mouth of Raccoon creek; thence, up
                            the Wabash River, to the reserve at its head, near Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ; thence, to the reserve at Fort 
                                Wayne
                            ; thence with the lines thereof, to the St. Mary's river; thence, up
                            the St. Mary's river, to the reservation at the portage; thence, with the line of
                            the cession made by the Wyandot nation of Indians to the 
                                United States
                            , at the foot of the Rapids of the Miami of Lake 
                                Erie
                            , on the 29th day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight
                            hundred and seventeen, to the reservation at Loramie's store; thence, with the
                            present Indian boundary line, to Fort Recovery; and, with the said line, following the
                            courses thereof, to the place of beginning."
                  
                     44
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, VII, 189–191.
               
                     of 1818 required a new land office to handle the sales of the
                    large purchase. A land office was, therefore, established at 
                        Brookville
                     on March 3, 1819.
            
                    For the disposal of the unappropriated public lands in the state of Indiana, to which the Indian
                        title is extinguished, the following districts shall be formed, and land offices established:
                        All the public lands as aforesaid, to which the Indian title was extinguished by the treates
                        concluded at St. Mary's, in the month of October, eighteen hundred and eighteen, lying
                        east of the range line, separating the first and second ranges, east of the second principal
                        meridian, extended north to the present Indian boundary, and north of a line to be run,
                        separating the ninth and tenth tiers of townships north of a base line, shall form a district
                        for which a land office shall be established at 
                            Brookville
                        .45
               
                
            By comparing the approximate figure of 5,500 as the population of the Whitewater Valley in 1810 with
                    the figure given by the census of 1820 which had expanded to 28,832, it will be seen that the Valley
                    increased in population by more than four hundred per cent, indeed a considerable increase. This
                    large addition may be attributed to the Great Migration, which took place between the end of the War
                    of 1812 and the panic of 1819.46
            
            A study of the age groups listed in the 1820 census indicates that it was still chiefly the young
                    people who were migrating. Forty-one per cent of the free whites were under ten years of age,
                    fifty-six per cent were under sixteen, seventy-three per cent were under twenty-six, ninety-two per
                    cent were under forty-five, and eight per cent were forty-five years of age and over.47
            
            The period of inflation, of which the Great Migration was a part, came to an end like all periods of
                    inflation. Apparently, the restrictions upon the operations of the Bank of the 
                        United States
                     ended the boom. In July, 1818, it began to restrict its loans, the redemption of its
                    notes, and to reduce the balances from the branch banks. This policy fell heavily upon the West and
                    particularly upon the 
                        Cincinnati
                     area. Speculation in land came to an end. Agricultural 
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., III, 521–522.
                  
                     46 Lawlis, "Settlement of the Whitewater Valley,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, XLIII, 39.
                  
                     47
                            Fourth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1820, p. 39⋆
                            
                                Fayette County
                             had 5,950, including nine colored persons; 
                                Franklin County
                            , 10,763, with 65 free blacks; and 
                                Wayne County
                             , 12,119, of which 66 were people of color.
               
                     prices dropped sharply and the hopes of the Westerners were
                    rudely shattered. Migration apparently continued, probably at a falling rate during 1819, but the
                    Great Migration was over.48
            
            The decade from 1810 to 1820, therefore, saw the War of 1812 check the earlier migration to the
                    Whitewater Valley and cause considerable confusion to the settlers, especially the Friends, although
                    there were no major military events within the Valley. When Harrison's campaign of 1813
                    relieved the pressure on the Northwest, the movement of immigration was resumed and the number of
                    settlers was so large as to be called the Great Migration, Settlements increased, new towns and
                    counties were established, churches and schools were founded, more land was purchased from the
                    Indians, and the entire Valley area became at least thinly settled. This migration occurred in a
                    period of inflation which came to an end in 1819, and this economic disturbance checked for a time
                    the further rapid settlement of Indiana. It is interesting to note how young were the people who
                    participated in this occupation of the lands of the Whitewater. The Valley was essentially a young
                    people's frontier.
            
               
                  48 Ralph C. H. Catterall, The Second Bank of the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            Chicago
                        , 1903), 51–67; Benjamin H. Hibbard, A History of the Public
                            Land Policies (
                            New York
                        , 1924), 100; William T. Utter, The Frontier State,
                            1803–1825 (vol. II, 1942, of The History of the State of 
                                Ohio
                            
                   6 vols., 
                     Columbus, Ohio
                  , 1941–1944),
                        263–295.
            
         
         
         
            
               
                        Madison
                    , Indiana
            
                    October 16, 1851⋆
               
                
            "
                        Madison
                     on the 
                        Ohio
                     Side of the river. It [is] the County Seat of Jefferson Co. contains a population of
                    about 12,000. It is one of the largest Commercial towns on the River and for enterprise on business
                    facilities has but few equals. The trade of 
                        Madison
                     is large and the Manufacturies important. It is an immense shipping point for the
                    products of the State which are brought forward by the 
                        Madison
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railway, which extends through the righest and most productive part of the State. The
                    leading products of this part of the State, are Wheat, Corn & Pork.
            "
                        Madison
                     has 15 churches of the normal denominations, excellent schools, a Bank, the usual
                    County buildings, various kinds of factories, foundries, Mills, Store [s] of all Kinds Some of which
                    do a large wholesale business.
            "The Situation of the town is beautiful, on a bend in the river, in the midst of a valley
                    three fourths of a Mile wide and three Miles long, Surrounded by rugged and precipitous hills rising
                    to the height of five to Six hundred feet."
            
               
                  ⋆ From the unpublished Journal of Charles B. Cotten in the
                        possession of the Indiana University Library, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana.
            
         
         
         
            A Southerner's View of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    
            
            
                    V. M. Scanlan⋆
               
                
            Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     and Nancy Hanks 
                        Lincoln
                    , the parents of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , came of the poorest of the poor and the obscurest of the obscure. Both were entirely
                    illiterate. There is no proof that either could read or write, though Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     could laboriously scrawl his name. The latter, though not entirely without energy, was
                    shiftless and improvident; a vagrant at heart, whose 'roving spirit held him to the wilderness and
                    to abject poverty all his life. Of Nancy Hanks 
                        Lincoln
                     little is known. The few scraps of authentic information left of her support the
                    tradition that she was a woman of fine mind and heart, a Christian, whose simple faith and gentle
                    mysticism invested her harsh, frontier life with unfailing fortitude and devotion.
            On February 12, 1809, in Hardin (now Larue) County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , in a log cabin, literally thrown together, Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     was born. Abe's childhood and youth were attended, throughout, by the pitiless
                    poverty and hardships, from which his shiftless father refused to be released.
            In 1816, stirred by the gossip of better land, the vagrant, Thomas, moved his family to the abysmal
                    wilderness of the Pigeon Creek district, in what is now 
                        Spencer
                     County, Indiana. They arrived at their gloomy abode in December with nothing but the
                    sky for shelter. They threw up a three-sided pole camp, covered with brush, leaves, and dirt, which
                    they occupied for a year, sleeping on the ground, covered by blankets, or skins. The next year,
                    Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     built a cabin, without door or window. Food was scarce. Most of it fell to Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                    's rifle. Sometimes, potatoes were their sole diet.1
            
            Nancy Hanks 
                        Lincoln
                     died in October, 1818. The next year Thomas married Sallie Bush Johnson, a splendid
                    woman. 
                  
                     ⋆ The author is the son of a Confederate veteran who fought
                            under General James Longstreet and was crippled for life at the Battle of 
                                Gettysburg
                            . This paper was prepared for the 1946 
                                Lincoln
                             anniversary program of the Hattiesburg, 
                                Mississippi
                            , Rotary Club. Many readers will understand differently some of the points of 
                                Lincoln
                            's career, but all will respect the thought and broad-mindedness of the
                            author which every page reveals.–Editor.
                  
                     1 Albert J. Beveridge, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , 1809–1858 (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1928), I, 41–43.
               
                     She took Abe to her heart and made substantial contributions to
                    his rigorous existence.
            Abe went to the log house, ABC schools less than a total of twelve months. He learned to read, write
                    and "cipher to the rule of three." He became a voracious reader, searching the
                    surrounding country for books. Neither titles nor contents made any difference. Books were sought
                    more for the printed word, than otherwise. He would say, "The things I want to know are in
                    books; my best friend is the man who'll git me a book I ain't read."2
            
            In a holograph statement, written in the third person, he said of his life at Pigeon Creek:
                    "He settled in an unbroken forest, and the clearing away of surplus wood was the great task
                    ahead. Abraham, though very young, was large of his age, and had an ax put into his hands at once;
                    and from that till within his twenty-third year, he was almost constantly handling that most useful
                        instrument."3
            
            At seventeen, he had attained the height of almost six feet and four inches. His physical powers were
                    prodigious. He was said to possess the strength of three men. A neighbor said, "He can sink
                    an ax deeper into wood than any man I ever saw." Another said, "If you heard him
                    fellin' trees in a clearin', you would say there was three men at work by the way the trees
                    fell."⋆ He excelled at most of the local sports and acquired an inexhaustible
                    repertory of funny stories. He was champion with the hand stick at the Log rollings and leading
                    lifter at the house raisings. He was sometimes hired out to supplement the hard life at home. He
                    would husk corn, clear new ground, split rails, kill hogs, and do any odd jobs that came to hand.
                    For a short time, he tended a ferry boat on the nearby 
                        Ohio
                     River. The memorable experience of his life at Pigeon Creek was a trip on a flatboat to 
                        New Orleans
                     when he was nineteen. This was his first glimpse of life, outside the dark forest.
            Abe came by degrees to envisage a new world far different from dismal Pigeon Creek. His imagination
                    could produce for it no more than a vague outline. It was a nebulous 
                  
                     2 Carl Sandburg, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , The 
                                    Prairie
                                 Years, (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1926), I, 73.
                  
                     3 Louis A. 
                                Warren
                            , 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Autobiographies (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, 1942), 11.
                  
                     4 Sandburg, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , The 
                                    Prairie
                                 Years, I, 44.
               
                     world, compounded of his forest dreams, and his varying moods;
                    of books and of the tales of passing people, who came from beyond the wilderness, which had held him
                    in its tight embrace since he was born. Life at Pigeon Creek spent itself. Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                    , the unstable, was again on the move. This time he was allured by the mirage of better
                    land in 
                        Macon
                     County, 
                        Illinois
                    . Abe, though now twenty-one years old and free to go forth for himself, assisted the
                    family to move to their new home and settle there. He helped split rails to fence a ten acre field.
            Finally, in July, 1831, he bade farewell to the specter of poverty, which had followed his childhood
                    and youth, and turned up at 
                        New Salem
                    , Sangamon (now Menard) County, 
                        Illinois
                    , as the entrance to the world of his dreams. 
                        New Salem
                     was a shabby village of less than twenty cabins, occupied by a motley assembly of
                    frontier folk, who could have lodged in no place of less promise. Abe's sobriety, honesty,
                    and kindly spirit, stressed by his ability to read and write established him quickly among 
                        New Salem
                    's most respectable. He worked for a year as clerk in a village store, after
                    which he volunteered for the Black Hawk walr in which he became captain of his company.5
            
            Politics, always as much of 
                        Lincoln
                     as his blood and bone, brought him out in his twenty-fourth year as a candidate for the
                    legislature. He was defeated but received nearly all of the votes cast at 
                        New Salem
                    .6 In 1834, he ran again for the office, was elected and served four
                    terms in the state body.
            With a partner, he next bought, entirely on credit, an old stock of goods and engaged in the
                    mercantile business. This venture quickly "winked out," as 
                        Lincoln
                     put it. His partner died, leaving all the debts to 
                        Lincoln
                    , which he struggled for fifteen years to pay. Now, without employment and deeply in
                    debt, for his support he had to fall again to his old time jobs of splitting rails, husking corn,
                    and to such public work as came to hand.7
            
            On May 7, 1833, he was appointed postmaster of the village 
                  
                     5 Beveridge, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , 1809–1858, I, 108–109, 120–122.
                  
                     6 John G. Nicolay and John Hay, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , A History (10 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1890), I, 109. 
                                Lincoln
                             received 277 out of 280 votes according to this work. 
                                Warren
                            , 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Autobiographies, 17, gives 277 out of 284.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Warren
                            , 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Autobiographies, 17; Beveridge, A braharn 
                                    Lincoln
                                , 1809–1858, I, 127–132.
               
                     and soon thereafter, assistant county surveyor. He was entirely
                    unqualified for this last appointment, but with the help of a friendly school teacher, Mentor
                    Graham, of peculiar ability, he mastered in six weeks a volume on surveying and went successfully to
                        work.8
            
            Throughout his stay at 
                        New Salem
                    , he indulged to the limit of opportunity his enormous capacity for reading. So
                    unsparingly did he yield himself to work and books, that his friends often feared for his health.
            After a time, he seriously considered learning the blacksmith trade but encouraged by a friendly 
                        Springfield
                     attorney, John T. Stuart, to study law, he bought at auction a copy of
                    Blackstone's Commentaries, borrowed a few lawbooks, and under painful self-tutelage became
                    a student for the bar. At this time, the sympathetic schoolteacher reminded him that he could hope
                    for little progress in law or any other profession, until he acquired a good-working knowledge of
                    grammar. Abe searched the countryside for such a book and finally discovered, at a home six miles
                    distant, a very difficult treatise on English. He obtained the volume and mastered it in an
                    incredibly short time.9
            
            
               
                        Lincoln
                    's years at 
                        New Salem
                     were profitable years. As drab and crude as life was there, it was infinitely superior
                    to that he had known. 
                        New Salem
                    , to him, was a sort of halfway point between gloomy Pigeon Creek and the world he so
                    dimly sought. The improved fellowship and the stimulating experiences he found in that rough
                    semblance of organized society went far to moderate the excessive boorishness and to cure the
                    appalling aimlessness inflicted on him by the iron wilderness. In fact, it was a school which took
                    sufficient rawness out of him, and wrought sufficient development in him to prepare his way to 
                        Springfield
                     where destiny awaited him.
            During four sessions of the legislature, he acquired the elements of constitutional and parliamentary
                    procedure and met many outstanding men, among whom he made lasting friends. He learned to debate,
                    and to write bills, and he virtually became the leader of his party in the House. There 
                  
                     8Beveridge, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , 1809–1858, I, 131; Sandburg, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , The 
                                    Prairie
                                 Years, I, 169–170.
                  
                     9Beveridge, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , 1809–1858, I, 133, 140; 
                                Warren
                            , 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Autobiographies, 17.
               
                     he really laid the foundation of his great career. It was at 
                        New Salem
                     in 1837, after heartbreaking toil over his borrowed lawbooks, that he received the
                    license to practice law.10
            
            In the spring of 1837, he packed into two pairs of saddlebags all his earthly possessions, including
                    his lawbooks, and, with only a few dollars in his pocket, left 
                        New Salem
                     on a borrowed horse for 
                        Springfield
                    . Thus came 
                        Lincoln
                     to the capital of 
                        Illinois
                     with its fifteen hundred inhabitants, where his half-lazy and half-dynamic life would
                    complete its long apprenticeship to greatness. He already had a few friends in his new home, which
                    he had acquired in the legislature. Moreover, he had achieved large popularity there by his able
                    legislative service in helping to move the capital of the state from Vandalia to 
                        Springfield
                    . In due course, he began to move forward in his profession. First, he formed a
                    fortunate association with the able, well-established attorney, John T. Stuart, who induced him to
                    study law, which continued for four years; next, a partnership with another leading member of the
                    bar, for three and one-half years, and, lastly, his association with his protege, William Herndon,
                    all of which advanced him steadily in the 
                        Illinois
                     bar. One of these partners, A. G. Henry, left a great testimony to 
                        Lincoln
                    's integrity. He 'related that 
                        Lincoln
                     had left the 
                        New Salem
                     post-office without a settlement with the post-office department. Sometime after 
                        Lincoln
                    's arrival at 
                        Springfield
                    , a postal inspector called on him there for a settlement. The partner expected 
                        Lincoln
                     to ask him to advance the money. Instead, 
                        Lincoln
                     excused himself for a few minutes and presently returned with an old sock, the contents
                    of which he emptieu on the table. There in miscellaneous coins was counted the exact amount of the
                    government's account, the original money, which 
                        Lincoln
                     had preserved against many weeks of need."
            Both extrovert and introvert, as he was, he drew the community to him, but puzzled it with his
                    impenetrable self-containment. Everybody knew him and liked him, but no one was acquainted with him.
                    All found his personal life above reproach. He neither drank nor swore. He had almost a passion for
                    integrity in all its manifestations. Gentleness, 
                  
                     10 Beveridge, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , 1809–1858, I, 206.
                  
                     11 Emanuel Hertz (ed.), 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 Talks, A Biography in Anecdote (
                                New York
                            , 1939), 17; Beveridge, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , 1809–1858, I, 207, 209; Nathaniel W. Stephenson, 
                                
                                    Lincoln
                                
                             (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1922), 35.
               
                     modesty, and magnanimity stood out in him. He was never skilled
                    in manners and social matters. He continued to the end to Wring forward into his environment the
                    rude habits and mannerisms of his wilderness life. Despite his crudeness, he had a rich culture all
                    his own. The fundamentals, so amply stored by Nature in him, as they responded to the pressures of
                    life gave forth in their own way his many distinguishing attributes. His mental development,
                    inspired by his abundant spirit, was pressed without limit by his singularly versatile mind. Both
                    the extent and profundity of his reading were extraordinary. Almost any subject engaged his
                    cavernous mind and memory. The multitudinous sources from which he drew his information are almost
                    beyond belief.
            In his old ramshackled buggy, twice a year, he would drive from court to court to try his cases. To
                    complete the circuit often required three months. Strangely, the lawyers carried few lawbooks with
                    them in that day. But studies of many other subjects including algebra, geometry, astronomy,
                    treatises on the sciences, and even a copy of Shakespeare from time to time found a place in 
                        Lincoln
                    's saddlebags. Often, when sleeping in the same room with eight or ten lawyers,
                    two in a bed, he would place his candle at the head of his bed and study or read until after
                    midnight. Herndon, his partner, said that 
                        Lincoln
                     in this manner through a period of many months mastered the six books of Euclid.12
            
            
               
                        Lincoln
                     was improvident, cared nothing for money, and often said he had "no money
                    sense." He was notorious for his small fees, for compromising his cases, and for
                    discouraging litigation. A circuit judge once protested against his fees and told him impatiently
                    that he was impoverishing his bar, with his insignificant charges. His conduct as a lawyer was
                    characterized by the quintessence of honor and ethics. The sanctity of the law and the courts was
                    almost an obsession with him. He invariably declined and did not hesitate to throw up in open court
                    cases that savored of fraud and injustice.
            On November 4, 1842, he married aristocratic Mary Todd, a belle of the 
                        Kentucky
                     blue grass country. Any student of 
                        Lincoln
                     may well wonder with all of 
                        Springfield
                     and thereabout of that day how matrimony ever brought together in 
                  
                     12 Stephenson, 
                                
                                    Lincoln
                                
                            , 61–62; Beveridge, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , 1809–1858, I, 515–519.
               
                     its inexorable bonds shy Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , late backwoodsman, "with hayseed still in his hair," and
                    blue-blooded Mary Todd, with her imperious pride and petulance. To this union four children were
                    born. There has always been much gossip and discussion concerning this alliance. The contracting
                    parties we're both good people, but the evidence in the large does not point to the
                    unalloyed bliss understood to be vouchsafed by the holy bonds of wedlock.
            In 1846, he was elected by the Whigs to Congress. His two years in the national body may be counted
                    as disappointing. His service there so offended his district that he did not offer for re-election.
                    Deeply humiliated by this serious repudiation, he determined to quit politics and surrender himself
                    to the pursuit of the law. This he did most assiduously for five years during which he reached the
                    head of the bar of his state, and achieved large reputation far beyond its borders. In 1856, the
                    sources of dissension between the North and South, unwittingly left in the constitution and so long
                    subdued by compromise and concession, were fast reaching a crisis. 
                        Lincoln
                     was then approaching his full stature. "His novitiate was finished."
                    He was a man of letters and an orator of the first rank. Moreover, though unannounced and even
                    unknown as such, he was a profound publicist, whose sentiments and opinions from platform and press
                    would shortly shake the nation. Here was a man from nowhere, "unancestored, unprivileged,
                    and unknown," a wilderness child of poverty, now country lawyer, who was soon to captain
                    the armies of his country in a titanic struggle for its existence."
            It is difficult for us of the South to arrive at an unbiased appraisal of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    . It is through the mists of the sad memory of a lost cause and along oblique paths of
                    judgment that we must look back to the tragic years when 
                        Lincoln
                     occupied the national stage. Nevertheless, whatever be our prejudices and
                    preconceptions, when we fail or refuse honestly to inform ourselves concerning any of our great
                    national figures, we cheat our Americanism and lower our capacity for citizenship.
            Any study of 
                        Lincoln
                    's life, pursued with the dispassion and patience of inquiring open-mindedness,
                    will discover there all the greatness which history has accorded him. In such 
                  
                     13 Beveridge, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , 1809–1858, I, 354–355, 374, 487.
               
                     a study, intolerances and unfavorable prepossessions will fade
                    in the presence of the great moral dignity and the granite-like convictions of the man. Before his
                    simple logic and unfailing candor, repugnance will yield to 'respect and skepticism to undisturbed
                    faith.
            It will be found that 
                        Lincoln
                     was never a demagogue; that he constantly declined to appeal to the ignorance and the
                    passions of men, but invaribly addressed their intelligence and conscience, always preferring common
                    sense to logic. It will be found that with impersonal devotion he fought all he opposed and defended
                    all he stood for. Though he never embraced any formal religion, to the fair student he will appear
                    to have been governed, in all the relations in life, by that inward rectitude, which proceeds from
                    the highest and finest emotions of a devout heart. Any thorough examination of this man's
                    life will discover his integrity inflexible, his love of truth almost passionate; that he knew no
                    malice and refused to cherish personal resentments. Justice and tolerance will be found in him
                    crowning virtues. His spirit of self-sacrifice knew no bounds. His great compassion will be
                    observed, on occasion, so to subdue his powerful nature as to approach weakness.
            Again, careful research will probably reveal nowhere in all history a more passionate champion of the
                    rights of man. With his infinite reverence for human personality, he believed, from the depth of his
                    soul, that God's plan for all humanity was the greatest liberty, compatible with the
                    happiness of mankind; that the genius of all government was to assure to the individual the largest
                    freedom and opportunity accordant with the exigencies of democratic society and that such should be
                    the goal of civilization.
            When we put 
                        Lincoln
                     on trial, we must first accord him full freedom of opinion. Then, we must critically
                    and fairly examine the sources and the sincerity of his conduct, and the spirit which animated him.
                    If we be satisfied with these considerations, then we shall find him face to face with the
                    determinations of high conscience, which, we shall agree, called forth from him the best that was in
                    him, when he conceived the destiny of his country to be involved. 
                        Lincoln
                    's abhorrence of slavery followed as an immediate corollary from his fidelity
                    to the essence of his being. To him human bondage was a moral, social, and political evil, strangely
                         brought forward from .barbarism, which had not the capacity
                    to conceive the attribute of mercy or pity.
            Again, any examination of the indubitable record will show 
                        Lincoln
                    's views on slavery were consistent throughout with the provisions of the
                    constitution, as he and a multitude of others interpreted the Magna Carta. The record will show that
                    until he abolished the institution as the inexorable exigency of war, he resolutely declined to
                    attack or disturb the rights vouchsafed to slavery by the organic law as he honestly understood it.
            He stood for slavery, as it existed, not only out of his reverence for the constitution, but because
                    he well understood that it was the cornerstone of the South's economy. He knew that violent
                    and sudden termination of the institution would destroy the whole fabric of Southern life. This was
                    revolting to him. In view of it, he stated that such an eventuation might do more harm to liberty
                    than even the presence of slavery.
            His broad and sympathetic understanding of the South was often evidenced in his public utterances. In
                    his reply to Douglas at 
                        Peoria
                     on October 16, 1854, he said, 
                        I have no prejudice against the Southern people. They are just what we would be in their
                            situation. If slavery did not exist among them, they would not introduce it. If it did now
                            exist among us, we should not instantly give it up. This I believe of the masses, North and
                            South. …
                        When Southern people tell us that they are no more responsible for the origin of slavery than
                            we are, I acknowledge the fact. When it is said that the institution exists, and that it is
                            very difficult to get rid of it in any satisfactory way, I can understand and appreciate the
                            saying. I surely will not blame them for not doing what I should not know how to do myself.
                        If all earthly power were given me, I should not know what to do, as to the existing
                                institution.14
                  
                    
            
            Time and again did he express, with formal exactitude, these judgments and sentiments. It was not
                    slavery as it existed in the slave states under the constitution that offended 
                        Lincoln
                    , but it was the extension of the institution to other territory that finally aroused
                    him. As a matter of fact, until the enactment of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     bill in 1854, which repealed the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise and left slavery in all the 
                  
                     14 John G. Nicolay and John Hay, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1894), I, 180–209, see 186–187.
               
                     territories to populak sovereignty, 
                        Lincoln
                     had been little more than silent concerning that subject. It is even possible, had it
                    not been for this legislation, that 
                        Lincoln
                     would never have appeared as a great historical character. He felt that the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise of 1820 conceived by the leaders of Congress to still the stormy threats of
                    disunion was a fair means of satisfying both slavery and antislavery sentiment since the act limited
                    the bounds of the institution to the sat- isfaction of all important views on the embattled subject.
                    The Great Compromise, through its thirty-five years of operation, had very well accomplished its
                    purpose. The disturbance of the status quo now by the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act incensed 
                        Lincoln
                     because he considered it a breach of national faith. Consequently, he again became
                    active in politics. He hoped, in due course, to arouse the country to the re-enactment of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise, dr to the enactment of some similar law. But in 1856, the Supreme Court, in
                    a manner almost gratuitous, startled the nation by holding unconstitutional the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise, notwithstanding it had previously been repealed by the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     bill. This decision outraged 
                        Lincoln
                    's view of the constitution respecting the control of slavery by Congress in
                    the territories-a view sup- ported by a large body of Northern and Western opinion. The action of
                    the great court thoroughly awakened the giant that had so long reposed in the easy-going 
                        Lincoln
                    . The 
                        Kansas
                    - 
                        Nebraska
                     bill was to bring epoch-making repercussions, and the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise, and the subsequent declaration of its unconstitutionality were in for all
                    out attack.
            You will recall that Senator Stephen A. Douglas, of 11- linois, then the real head of the Democratic
                    party, and the most powerful politician and political drator in the co,untry, authored the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     bill and steered it to enact- ment. The legislation pleased the South. The Senator
                    would try for the presidency in 1860 and probably was seeking Southern support for his nomination.
                    When Douglas hurried home to defend this act before an irate constituency, 
                        Lincoln
                     fiercely attacked both measure and author. Thus began the famous 
                        Lincoln
                    -Douglas debates, which had their merciless culmination four years later, when these two
                    intellectual giants opposed each other for the 
                        United States
                     Senate.
            There is scarcely anything in the annals of politics com- parable to these debates. Their influence
                    on American his-  tory is incalculable. They had the effect of
                    bringing to focus the red-hot issues of the time. They virtually revolutionized the political life
                    of the country, and prepared the stage for a new America. In that great battle of wits, Douglas was
                    badly beaten, even though he was elected to the Senate. In his efforts to recover the ground he lost
                    to 
                        Lincoln
                    , Douglas caused the disruption of the Democratic party, which, in turn, resulted in his
                    own- defeat and in 
                        Lincoln
                    's election in the presidential campaign of 1860.
            Long agitated by highly controversial debate and legislation in Congress on slavery, and by constant
                    fulminations on that deadly subject from press and platform, the public mind both North and South,
                    in the middle 1850's, was approaching the explosive point. The sources of cool judgment and
                    patriotic restraint were well nigh everywhere overwhelmed by the crazed excitement of the day.
            By 1852 the sectional allegiance was so pronounced that the Whig party began to disintegrate. The
                    remaining anti-slavery organizations were too radical and too feeble to attract a coalition of the
                    larger and more conservative antislavery bodies of opinion, which now had only to be organized to
                    obtain control of the federal government. As you know, this situation led, in 1854, to the formation
                    of the Republican party. This party, you will remember, was brought into being to consolidate all
                    antislavery sentiment, regardless of party affiliations, and to amalgamate, under broad leadership,
                    the variant antislavery organizations in the North and West.
            The new party held its first national convention in 1856. Its platform in 1860 was with a few minor
                    additions a reaffirmation of its first pronouncement in 1856–adherence to the principles
                    of 
                        Washington
                     and Jefferson; denial of the constitutional right of Congress or any territory to
                    establish slavery with a ‘ringing declaration that it was both the right and duty of
                    Congress to prohibit slavery in the territories. 
                        Lincoln
                    , over several national figures, was the party's nominee for the presidency.
                    Meantime, Douglas’ quarrel with the administration and the South, over the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     bill, had split the Democratic party wide open. The 'result was, in the contest of
                    1860, 
                        Lincoln
                     was easily elected to the presidency, even though as a minority president.15
            
            
               
                  15 Beveridge, Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            , 1809–1858, I, 487; ibid., II,
                        695–713.
            
            
            Thus 
                        Lincoln
                     became chief executive of the nation on the platform of a new party, that set out, in
                    forthright terms, the irreconcilable issues, which, since the adoption of the constitution, had been
                    slowly, but surely evolving from the fundamental differences between the North and South. His
                    election wrought immediate pandemonium in the South, and, before his inauguration, on the fourth of
                    the following March, as you know, seven of the Southern states had formed a confederacy of their
                    own, and withdrawn their representatives from the National Congress.
            Secession, first threatened by Federalists, during John Marshall's early days, often again
                    to cast its shadow over the Union, had now come to pass, and was soon to be referred by the logic of
                    passion to the arbitrament of arms. There was no word in the constitution which, however tortured,
                    could be interpreted to permit or prohibit the withdrawal of any state from the compact of Union.
                    Therefore, that matter was left entirely to individual conclusion. 
                        Lincoln
                     held that, under the organic law, there could be no such thing as secession. To him,
                    the Union was more than life. He never had a passion that did not enter into his devotion for it.
                    His convictions concerning the inviolability of the organic law were cast in the fires of his soul.
                    He not only loved the Union for its own sake, but he felt and said that American democracy, under
                    its constitution, was an experiment in government, upon which he thought depended the success of the
                    Liberal party all over the world, and, therefore, the hope of attaining the ultimate goal of
                    individual freedom for mankind which was to him as a religion.
            It cannot be fairly denied that the spirit of 
                        Lincoln
                    's first inaugural address was that of a great, earnest soul behind a cause for
                    which he was willing to wage war, if necessary, but sought with all his powers still to avert it. In
                    that address, he quoted himself from a former speech. "I have no purpose, directly or
                    indirectly, to interfere with the institution of slavery in the States where it exists. I believe I
                    have no lawful right to do so, and. I have no inclination to do so."16
                    Next, he affirmed the validity of the Fugitive Slave 
                  
                     16 James D. Richardson (comp.), A Compilation of the
                                Messages and Papers of the Presidents, 1789–1897 (10 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1897), VI, 5.
               
                     Act and pressed for its execution. Then he vigorously asserted
                    that, 
                        In the contemplation of universal law and of the Constitution, the union of these States is
                            perpetual. Perpetuity is implied, if not expressed, in the fundamental law of all national
                            governments. It is safe to assert that no government proper ever had a provision in its
                            organic law for its own termination. … Again if the 
                                United States
                             be not a government proper, but an association of States in the nature of a
                            contract merely, can it, as a contract, be peaceably unmade by less than all the parties who
                            made it? One party to a contract may violate it–break it, so to speak;
                            but does it not require all to lawfully rescind it? … If a minority in
                            such case will secede rather than acquiesce, they make a precedent, which, in turn will
                            divide and ruin them; for a minority of their own will secede from them whenever a majority
                            refuses to be controlled by such minority. For instance, why may not any portion of a new
                            confederacy a year or two hence arbitrarily secede again … ?
                    
            
            Next, he endorsed a resolution proposing an amendment to the constitution just passed by Congress,
                    that the federal government should never interfere with the domestic institution of the states,
                    "Including that of persons held to service." The closing paragraph of this
                    inaugural address is one of great pathos and beauty appealing, as it did, to the seceding states to
                    reconsider their action.
            
                    I am loathe to close. We are not enemies, but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion may
                        have strained, it must not break, our bonds of affection. The mystic chords of memory,
                        stretching from every battlefield and patriot grave to every living heart and hearthstone all
                        over this broad land, will yet swell the chorus of the Union, when again touched, as surely they
                        will be, by the better angels of our nature.17
               
                
            When 
                        Lincoln
                     assumed the presidency, the national capital was wild with excitement, and the utmost
                    confusion prevailed throughout the country. Of course, he had chosen his cabinet and promptly
                    constituted it, appointing to the two highest posts his chief opponents at the convention which
                    nominated him. He sought more ample acquaintance with the heads of his party, while he awaited
                    public reaction, both North and South, to the impending conflict. He felt keenly his lack of
                    training for his difficult position. Worse still, he was beset by dark expressions of fear,
                    emanating from critical politicians, doctrinaires and inflated disciples of culture, 
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., 7, 9, 11–12.
               
                     impugning his ability and equipment for the great office.
                    Moreover, he was a minority candidate. He had yet to learn how his people would regard war and was
                    aware that there was substantial sentiment against it. He vacillated painfully over the immediate
                    steps to be taken towards the South. He determined not to initiate hostilities, and to leave the
                    South to fire the first shot. He even continued to withhold badly needed supplies from Fort Sumter,
                    for which 
                        South Carolina
                     was already clamoring.
            During this period of irresolution, he observed that the South itself was far from solidarity.
                            
                  Virginia, North Carolina
               , and the border slave states were refusing to follow
                    the deeper Southern states out of the Union on the issue of slavery. This encouraged in him the hope
                    of a last minute compromise. Knowing 
                        Virginia
                    's importance to both sections and realizing the discouragement her refusal to
                    secede would impose on the disaffected states, he made vigorous effort to preserve that state to the
                    Union. While he scanned both North and South for the signals, he watched 
                        Virginia
                    . He even went so far as to agree to evacuate Fort Sumter if 
                        Virginia
                     would 'repudiate secession. Although the Mother of Presidents announced in due course
                    that while she was prepared to meet 
                        Lincoln
                    's views on slavery, she was adamant in maintaining that she was a sovereign
                    state and was subject to no coercion from the Union, of which she was a member of her own free will. 
                        Lincoln
                     was finally informed it was 
                        Virginia
                    's view that the coercion of any state would call in question the full
                    sovereignty of all the states and would compel her to abandon the federation. Soon other Southern
                    states raised this issue.
            To the Union-loving 
                        Lincoln
                     this doctrine was not a matter to negotiate. It was one to fight about. He ordered an
                    expedition for the relief of Fort Sumter. On April 12, began the bombardment of that fort. On the
                    thirteenth its flag was lowered. The supporting squadron had arrived but too light to pass 
                        Charleston
                    's batteries and assist the fort. On April 15, 
                        Lincoln
                     called for troops. The long four years of dreary, bloody civil war were on. Now
                    challenged on the irreconcilable issue of state sovereignty, 
                  Virginia, North
                    Carolina
               , 
                        Arkansas
                    , and 
                        Tennessee
                     declared for secession.
            The year 1861 was a difficult period for 
                        Lincoln
                    . He continued to grope his way, as he served his soul-trying apprenticeship to
                    statecraft and war. There was the same confusion  of thought in
                    his cabinet, which was none too able and none too loyal. He had to contend with a troublesome body
                    of opposition to the war, found himself plagued by a dissident Congress and an impatient public,
                    both clamdring for premature military movement. Nevertheless, his first message to Congress on July
                    4 was the deliverance of a changed 
                        Lincoln
                    . There was no reference to slavery. There was no hint of compromise. It was the message
                    of a stern president demanding unreserved defense of the sovereign power of the national government
                    and appealing to the Northern people to dedicate their all to the inviolability of the constitution.
                    He said in this message, 
                        This is essentially a people's contest. On the side of the Union it is struggle for
                            maintaining in the world that form and substance of government whose leading object is to
                            elevate the condition of men –to lift artificial weights from all shoulders; to
                            clear the paths of laudable pursuit for all; to afford all an unfettered start, and a fair
                            chance in the race of life.18
                  
                    
            
            It was not until his success at 
                        Gettysburg
                    , that 
                        Lincoln
                     was assuredly bidden to expect victory for Northern arms. In the sufferings of these
                    intervening years he passed from embryonic statesman to past master of profound statecraft, which
                    completely captured the public mind at home and stirred mingled wonder and approbation abroad.
            In 1864, he was re-elected to the presidency by a majority, which proclaimed the great faith and
                    affection in which he was held by his people. He now saw the beginning of the end of the conflict.
                    With his characteristic wisdom and magnanimity, he began to prepare the way for the unobstructed
                    return of the seceded states to the Union. This from the beginning, he had proposed in his heart to
                    accomplish, apart from terms of reprisal or humiliation. Asked once what would be done with these
                    states when defeated, he replied, substantially, that he would take them back, clean them up, and
                    not ask them where they had been.
            He had, with deep resentment, watched grow, as the war proceeded, the strongly led vindictive group
                    of powerful politicians and fanatics who determined to wreak savage vengeance on a defeated South.
                    From time to time, he intervened to thwart these vicious forces. In December, 1863, 
                  
                     18
                     Ibid., 20–31, see 30.
               
                     to control these vindictives he consoled them with a statement
                    of forgiveness to Southerners, except those above certain ranks and classes and except any who had
                    deserted the 
                        United States
                     Congress, judiciary, army and navy, and all civil and diplomatic officials of the
                    rebellion, implying condign punishment for these leading groups. This sounded well to the
                    South-baiters and reasonably quieted them for the time. On March 3, 1865, Ulysses S. Grant
                    telegraphed 
                        Lincoln
                     that Robert E. Lee was probing for terms of surrender. The White House was full of
                    politicians present for the morrow's inauguration. Knowing that the flaming radicals would
                    not get fully on the warpath, he directed the Secretary of War, Edwin M. Stanton, to telegraph
                    Grant: 
                        The President directs me to say that he wishes you to have no conference with General Lee
                            unless it be for capitulation of General Lee's army, or on some minor or purely
                            military matter. He instructs me to say that you are not to decide, discus^, or confer upon
                            any political questions. Such questions the President holds in his own hands, and will
                            submit them to no military conferences or conventions. Meanwhile you are to press to the
                            utmost your military advantages.19
                  
                    
            
            This tough message to Grant, with a few well-directed sentences in his second inaugural address,20 the next day, assured the vindictives that the president was now seeing eye
                    to eye with them on the question of dire punishment for the South. Moreover, they gloated over the
                    thought that Congress might now have an opportunity for its full expression on the terms of
                    surrender. His conduct, during the succeeding weeks, more than suggests that 
                        Lincoln
                     deliberately fooled the avengers that day. He prescribed poison for the Confederacy,
                    with no thought of administering it, hoping such action would keep the bitter enders quiet, until he
                    could accomplish his own cause.
            Rejoicing that Congress was not in session, three weeks later, accompanied only by his wife and
                    child, 
                        Lincoln
                     made for Grant's headquarters in the field. He ordered William T. Sherman to
                    come up from 
                        North Carolina
                    . Twice the president and his two chiefs long conferred in his private office. What was
                    said there has never been disclosed. Despite his drastic order in December, 1863, and regardless of
                    his severe 
                  
                     19 Nicolay and Hay, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                
                     , II, 656.
                  
                     20 Richardson (comp.), A Compilation of the Messages and
                                Papers of the Presidents, 1789–1897, VI, 276–277.
               
                     telegram to Grant, three weeks previously concerning terms of
                    surrender, it is a historical fact that Grant paroled Lee's entire army and guaranteed all
                    officers, as well as privates, freedom from prosecution, as long as they obeyed the parole and their
                    local laws. Sherman went Grant one better and guaranteed amnesty, not only to all officers, as well
                    as soldiers, but extended the terms to the entire Southern people. The vindictives howled loudly at
                    these easy terms of peace. 
                        Lincoln
                     was powerless. Grant and Sherman had given their word. The archenemies of the beaten
                    South had been cheated of their prey.
            On the night of April 11, 1865, two days after Lee's surrender, in a speech to a crowd
                    assembled before the White House, 
                        Lincoln
                     said, 
                        We all agree that the seceded States, so called, are out of their proper practical relation
                            with the Union, and that the sole object of the government, civil and military, in regard to
                            those States, is to again get them into that proper practical relation. I believe that it is
                            not only possible, but in fact easier, to do this without deciding or even considering
                            whether these States have ever been out of the Union, than with it. Finding themselves
                            safely at home, it would be utterly immaterial whether they had ever been abroad.21
                  
                    
            
            Just three days after his deliberately conciliatory statement, delivered at such a hazardous time, 
                        Lincoln
                     fell to the bullet of a crazed assassin. The South, in the midnight hour of her agony,
                    lost her most powerful friend. He crushed the fallen states in a struggle over a principle, but when
                    victory fell to him, he turned to them to bind their wounds and restore their hope. Had 
                        Lincoln
                     survived, the South would have been spared the tortures of the so-called period of
                    reconstruction, diabolically conceived to abase her. There would have been no martial law at bayonet
                    points to brutalize and despoil her. Neither would there have been the swarms of carpetbaggers and
                    scalawags to prey upon .her. No black and tan legislature would have humiliated her. No fourteenth
                    amendment would have plagued her. 
                        Lincoln
                    's conduct, throughout the war, and after the peace, is full of testimony that,
                    had he lived, he would have preserved to the prostrate South her full pride and dignity; that, with
                    the full warmth of his heart, he would have rejoiced at her return to the 
                  
                     21 Nicolay and Hay, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                
                     , II, 672–675, see 674.
               
                     Union and, with his great courage and strength, would have
                    mended her broken life.
            We reverence our every thought of the Old South. We love her traditions. We rejoice in the greatness
                    of her manhood and in the gentleness of her womanhood. We shall keep always our altars brightly
                    burning to the memory of our noble fathers, and their valor incomparable, and to the memory of our
                    glorious mothers, whose heroism numbered them among the saints. But, as we examine our judgments in
                    the perspective of time, and turn our thoughts to a foreboding future, who does not rejoice in a
                    united country?
            Thrice, already, since 
                        Lincoln
                     died, have Southern and Northern blood mingled to defend this land. Twice, with our
                    united strength, have we barely rolled back the mighty tides of evil that sought to enslave mankind.
                    Who now, without inexpressible sadness, can envisage this country of ours divided by streams and
                    mountains and lines of latitude, with all on either side alien to all on the other side?
                    Who does not say now, with Webster, "Union and Liberty, Now and Forever, One and
                    Inseparable?"
         
         
         
            Did Industrial Labor Influence Jacksonian Land Policy?
            
                    Harry R. Stevens⋆
               
                
            There is an effort being made to revolutionize the story of the age of Andrew Jackson. Criticism is
                    directed from many sides against the old familiar account, which explained the politics of that
                    generation in terms of sectional forces. The great geographical divisions of East, South, and West,
                    with their internal conflicts and subregions and their spokesmen, John Q. Adams, Daniel Webster,
                    John C. Calhoun, Henry 
                        Clay
                    , Andrew Jackson, and Thomas H. 
                        Benton
                    , are now supposed to obscure rather than to illuminate an understanding of the period.
            In their place a new version is being developed, employing a class analysis, and emphasizing
                    especially the role of the industrial labor movement of the 1830's and 1840's.
                    Major topics all the way from banking to philosophy have béen re-studied from this
                    approach, often with good results. The question of the public lands, which has always been
                    considered one of the chief political issues of the Jacksonian years, has drawn particular
                        attention.1
            
            But there is a crucial unsolved problem in the reinterpretation of Jacksonian public land policy.
                    Research during the past fifty years, and -especially the past fifteen, has brought to light a great
                    deal of new evidence, and a fairly complete picture of labor's position on public lands is
                    now 
                  
                     ⋆ Harry R. Stevens is a member of the history department at
                            the College of Engineering and Commerce, University of 
                        Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio
                     .
                  
                     1 John B. Sanborn, "Some Political Aspects of Homestead
                            Legislation," American Historical Review (
                                New York
                            , 1895- ), VI (1900-1901), 19–37; Payson J. Treat, National Land System, 1785–1820 (
                                New York
                            , 1910); Raynor G. Wellington, "The Tariff and Public Lands from 1828
                            to 1833," American Historical Association Annual Report for 1911
                            (2 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1913), I, 177–185; Raynor G. Wellington, The Political
                                and Sectional Influence of the Public Lands, 1828–18U2
                                    (
                        Cambridge, Massachusetts
                     , 1914); George M. Stephenson, The Political History of the Public Lands from 1840 to 1862 (
                                Boston
                            , 1917) ; Roy M. Robbins, "Preemption–a frontier
                            Triumph," 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Valley Historical Review (Cedar Rapids, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1914- ), XVIII (1931-1932), 331–349; Louis M. Hacker,
                            "Sections–or Classes?," Nation (
                                New York
                            , 1865- ), CXXXVII (1933), 108–110; John D. Hicks, "The
                            ‘Ecology’ of Middle-Western Historians," 
                        
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Magazine of History (
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     ,
                            1917-), XXIV (1941), 377–384. The effort at revision has culminated in Arthur M.
                            Schlesinger, Jr., The Age of Jackson (
                                Boston
                            , 1945).
               
                     available. Many labor leaders were intensely interested in
                    achieving a more liberal land policy.2 Such a policy was adopted, and some
                    historians now suggest that its adoption was a result of labor's demand. Yet no direct
                    relation has been shown between the Jacksonian labor movement and national legislation concerning
                    the public domain.
            Industrial labor leaders who were interested in land reform, one writer recently has observed,
                    we're insignificant at the polls.3 Since no direct relationship between
                    national land legislation and labor parties, labor candidates, or labor votes has been established,
                    interest has turned to two other possible connections.
            On the one hand, it has been suggested, the ideas about land reform that were advanced by labor
                    leaders may have been sufficiently persuasive, especially when backed by the existence of an
                    industrial labor problem, to compel changes in land policy. One of the favorite land reform ideas
                    among Jacksonian labor leaders was the safety-valve thesis, the view that westward emigration of
                    labor was an outlet for social pressure and unrest and a means of attaining high industrial wages.
                    The idea was advanced in Congress at the same time, and the revisionist historians have suggested
                    that this was the vital contribuition made by the labor movement to the formation of public land
                    policy. If it was, the use made of it by congressmen should be examined to see whether it was
                    decisive or important in the action they took to change the land laws.
            On the other hand, it has been noted that the existence side by side of unoccupied western lands and
                    an industrial labor class implied some relationship between the two, and a number of studies in the
                    past dozen yeairs have explored the possibility that Eastern workingmen emigrated westward. The
                    studies remain inconclusive for lack of adequate statistics 4
                    
                  
                     2 John R. Commons, "Horace Greeley and the Working Class
                            Origins of the Republican Party," Political Science Quarterly (
                                New York
                            , 1886- ), XXIV (1909), 468–488; Roy M. Robbins, "Horace
                            Greeley: Land Reform and Unemployment, 1837–1862," Agricultural History (
                        Chicago;
                                    Baltimore
                     , 1927- ), VII (1933),
                            18–41; Carter G. Goodrich and Sol Davison, "The Wage-Earner in the
                            Westward Movement," Political Science Quarterly, L (1935),
                            161–185, and LI (1936), 61–116; Helene S. Zahler, Eastern
                                Workingmen and National Land Policy, 1829–1862 (
                                New York
                            , 1941).
                  
                     3 Zahler, Eastern Workingmen and National Land
                            Policy, 81.
               
                     But historians have begun to say that even though the public
                    domain may not have been a safety valve for labor through emigration, the belief that it offered a
                    solution to the labor problem may have compelled legislative changes in national land policy.5
            
            From either approach, one arrives at the same questions. What was the safety valve idea?
                    How was it expressed in congressional speeches in relation to land questions? Did
                    statements of belief lead to corresponding action? How significant was this idea in the
                    logic of those who held it, and how significant was it in the enactment of national land reform
                    legislation? The answers to those questions will indicate whether this crucial idea may
                    provide the bridge to connect the Jacksonian labor movement with national land policy.
            The classic definition of the safety valve was offered by Caleb Cushing, the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Whig who apparently introduced the phrase in Congress, in his speech of June 13, 1838.
            
                    I honor the enterprising men who carry their stalwart limb and free-spirited hearts into the
                        Western woods and prairies .… If among them be some of less orderly tempers, the
                        better for us who remain behind. Western emigration is the safety-valve of the Union. It serves
                        to relieve the more crowded population of the old States; to relieve them of those evils of a
                        condensed society, with crime and extreme poverty in its train, which are the curse of so many
                        parts of Europe; to relieve us of all the uneasy and exuberant spirit which is compressed and
                        fretted in populous communities, but which finds ample scope for the beneficial expansion of its
                        energies in the wide West.6
               
                
            
               
                  4 Fred A. Shannon, "The Homestead Act and the Labor
                        Surplus," American Historical Review, XLI (1935-1936),
                        637–651; Joseph Schafer, "Some Facts Bearing on the Safety-Valve
                        Theory," 
                     
                                Wisconsin
                             Magazine of History, XX (1936), 216–232; Joseph Schafer,
                        "Was the West a Safety Valve for Labor?," 
                     
                                Mississippi
                             Valley Historical Review, XXIV (1936-1937), 299–314; Joseph
                        Schafer, "Concerning the Frontier as Safety Valve," Political
                            Science Quarterly, LII (1937), 407–420; Rufus S. Tucker, "The
                        Frontier as an Outlet for Surplus Labor," Southern Economic Journal
                                (
                     Chapel Hill, North Carolina
                  , 1933- ), VII (1940), 158–186.
                        Shannon at least considers the question as settled conclusively, see his "A Post Mortem
                        on the Labor-Safety-Valve Theory," Agricultural History, XIX (1945),
                        31–37.
               
                  5 Murray Kane, "Some Considerations on the Safety-Valve
                        Doctrine," 
                     
                                Mississippi
                             Valley Historical Review, XXIII (1936-1937), 169–188; Zahler,
                            Eastern Workingmen and National Land Policy, 81 ff; Clarence H. Danhof,
                        "Farm-making Costs and the Safety Valve," Journal of Political
                            Economy (
                            Chicago
                        , 1892- ), XLIX (1941), 317–359.
               
                  6
                        Congressional Globe, 25 Cong., 2 Sess., appendix, 494.
            
            
            The idea was not new in the Jacksonian period. It was at least as old as Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    ,7 and it may have been first expressed in Congress by Albert
                    Gallatin of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1796.8 Its employment in continuous debate seems to have started
                    with Henry 
                        Clay
                    's speech on the tariff on March 30, 1824. During the next twenty-five years it
                    was introduced repeatedly by Thomas Ewing of 
                  Ohio, Clay
                of 
                        Kentucky
                    , Thomas H. 
                        Benton
                     of 
                        Missouri
                    , Clement C. 
                        Clay
                     and John McKinley of 
                        Alabama
                    , Jacob Thompson of 
                        Mississippi
                    , and other congressmen.
            With respect to the public domain the idea was used on both sides of the argument. Priority seems to
                    lie with the legislators who proposed it as a reason for restricting western land sales. Henry 
                        Clay
                     opposed further liberalizing of land laws in order to encourage the formation of an
                    industrial labor supply in the East and advocated a protective tariff to counteract the influence of
                    western lands in scattering the population.9 Richard Rush, a Philadelphian who
                    became Secretary of the Treasury, provided in his report in 1827 a detailed argument along the same
                    lines as 
                        Clay
                    's.10 Thomas Ewing, a Whig senator from 
                        Ohio
                    , was a third outstanding proponent of this view, which he advanced on a number of
                        occasions.11 A few other Whigs, all from the Atlantic coast, used the same
                    or similar logic.12 After having stated the safety-valve idea, however, they
                    showed no significant voting on public land bills except the distribution bills of 1832, 1835, 
                  
                     7 Benjamin 
                                Franklin
                            , "Observations on the Peopling of Countries," quoted in
                            Schafer, "Concerning the Frontier as Safety Valve," Political
                                Science Quarterly, LII, 409–410.
                  
                     8
                            Annals of Congress, 4 Cong., 1 Sess., 411–412.
                  
                     9 Frederic L. Paxson, History of the American Frontier,
                                1763–1893 (
                                Boston
                            , 1924), 246; Register of Debates in Congress, 22 Cong., 1
                            Sess., 1099, 1111–1112.
                  
                     10
                            Register of Debates in Congress, 20 Cong., 1 Sess., appendix,
                            2825–2826.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 22 Cong., 1 Sess., 1142; 22 Cong., 2 Sess., 167–169; 24
                            Cong., 2 Sess., 539.
                  
                     12 Daniel Webster (
                                Massachusetts
                            ), Register of Debates in Congress, 21 Cong., 1 Sess., 39, 40;
                            Erastus Root (
                                New York
                            ), 22 Cong., 1 Sess., 1852; John Robertson (
                                Virginia
                            ), Congressional Globe, 25 Cong., 3 Sess., appendix,
                            306–307; Tristam Burges (
                                Rhode Island
                            ), 23 Cong., 2 Sess., 240–241. See also David Barton (
                                Missouri
                            ), Register of Debates in Congress, 20 Cong., 1 Sess., 495;
                            Tristam Burges, 22 Cong., 2 Sess., 1358–1411, 1785–1786; Richard
                            Bayard (
                                Delaware
                            ), Congressional Globe, 25 Cong., 2 Sess., appendix, 136;
                            Charles Hudson (
                                Massachusetts
                            ), 27 Cong., 2 Sess., appendix, 932; John Chapman (
                                Maryland
                            ), 29 Cong., 1 Sess., appendix, 1159.
               
                     and 1839, which they supported, and the Pre-emption Bill of
                    1839, which they opposed. There is, of course, the possibility that other Whigs who voted against
                    land reform thought as 
                        Clay
                    , Rush, and Ewing did, but were dissuaded from stating thei'r reasons, perhaps
                    by the frequent warnings from Democratic congressmen that they would not dare let such views be
                    known publicly. Evidence is lacking.
            But as an argument in favor of land reform the safety-valve idea was advanced by a much larger number
                    of congressmen.13 A more detailed examination may, therefore, be made of the
                    ways in which it was presented, who made use of it, and the extent to which it was significant in
                    the political thought of its users.
            The safety-valve idea as it was presented by supporters of land reform in Congress from 1824 to 1849
                    may be analyzed into eight elements. First the advocates of a more liberal land policy made two
                    accusations against their opponents. Through land legislation, they said, Eastern interests wanted
                    to compel the poor, or city dwellers, or the population in general, to remain in Eastern states for
                    work in factories, or to tenant great fa'rms, or to supply the labor market.14 And, second, Easterners wanted to maintain a large labor market through restrictive
                    land legislation in order to keep factory wages at a low level.15
            
            
               
                  13 All but four of those who used the safety-valve argument in support of
                        a more liberal land policy were Westerners, and all but two were Democrats. The four Eastern
                        exceptions were Robert Y. Hayne (
                            South Carolina
                        ), Register of Debates in Congress, 21 Cong., 1 Sess., 34; Levi
                        Woodbury (
                            New Hampshire
                        ), 21 Cong., 1 Sess., 180–184; Caleb Gushing (
                            Massachusetts
                        ), Congressional Globe, 25 Cong., 2 Sess., appendix, 494; Hannibal
                        Hamlin (
                            Maine
                        ), 29 Cong., 1 Sess., 1072. The two Whigs were Caleb Cushing and Charles A.
                        Wickliffe (
                            Kentucky
                        ), Register of Debates in Congress, 21 Cong., 2 Sess., 477.
               
                  14 From 1828 to 1849 this charge was made in Congress in public land
                        debates about two dozen times (fourteen times from 1828 to 1832), more often (seven times) by
                        Senator 
                            Benton
                         of 
                            Missouri
                        . One southeastern senator used it, Robert Y. Hayne (
                            South Carolina
                        ), Register of Debates in Congress, 21 Cong., 1 Sess., 34. It was
                        used seventeen times by southwesterners, five times by northwestemers. Ibid.,
                        20 Cong., 1 Sess., 502, 618–519, 621–622; 21 Cong., 1 Sess., 4, 24, 34,
                        212; 21 Cong., 2 Sess., 477; 22 Cong., 1 Sess., 785, 1149–1150, 1151–1152,
                        1174, 2265–2266, appendix 122; 22 Cong., 2 Sess., 158, 225; Congressional Globe, 25 Cong., 2 Sess., appendix, 139, 399; 25 Cong., 3 Sess.,
                        appendix 45, 59; 28 Cong., 2 Sess., appendix 55, 207; 29 Cong., 1 Sess., appendix 777.
               
                  15 This charge was made less often from 1824 to 1849 than the preceding
                        one. It was offered once by a southeastern speaker, six times by men from the southwest, and
                        five times by those from the northwest. The congressmen from the northwest seem to have
                    been
            
            
            As alternatives to those conditions western Democrats offered four counter-objectives to be achieved
                    through land legislation: protection of the natural right of the people to live wherever they might
                        choose,16 escape for the poor from oppression and dependence in the East,17 escape from the necessity of working in factories, and escape from the
                    necessity of working for low wages. Those four proposals were stated negatively, as matters of
                    escape from the East and from oppression.
            Finally, the congressional land 'reformers added two other related propositions that brought a
                    positive eastern bearing to their plans. Cheap land in the West would, if made available (or did,
                    since it was available, some said) raise wages in Eastern factories, or keep wages high, and
                    westward migration would eliminate the evils of agrarianism, social unrest, and threats of
                    revolution engendered in Eastern industrial centers.
            The argument is an impressive one that congressmen we're concerned with the problems of
                    Eastern industrialism and the labor unrest of the times. Whether they borrowed their arguments from
                    labor leaders or not, if those considerations were decisive in bringing about changes in the land
                    laws, then the existence of industrial labor problems was more significant in the formation of land
                    policy than the old view has recognized.
            If the statements of opinion are significant, there should appear, in the first place, some relation
                    between the way land reform exponents of the safety-valve idea spoke and the way they voted. What
                    action did they take in Congress when 
                  a little more conscious than the southwesterners of the wage problem in relation to
                            factory labor. Register of Debates in Congress, 20 Cong., 1 Sess., 518; 21
                            Cong., 1 Sess., 1174, 2265–2266; Congressional Globe, 25 Cong.,
                            2 Sess., appendix 139, 399; 28 Cong., 2 Sess., appendix 55, 207; 29 Cong., 1 Sess., appendix
                            777; 29 Cong., 2 Sess., appendix, 39.
                  
                     16 This argument was advanced on many occasions, in this particular
                            connection it appeared clearly five times and was used chiefly by 
                                Benton
                            . Register of Debates in Congress, 19 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            730–731; 21 Cong., 1 Sess., 24; 22 Cong., 1 Sess., appendix 122; 22 Cong., 2
                            Sess., 225; Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., appendix 777.
                  
                     17 Prom 1824 to 1849 this idea appeared in Congress sixteen times.
                            Southwesterners outnumbered others who used it about two to one. Register of
                                Debates in Congress, 19 Cong., 1 Sess., 732; 21 Cong., 1 Sess., 14, 24, 34; 21
                            Cong., 2 Sess., 477; 22 Cong., 1 Sess., appendix 122; 24 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                            1249–1250; Congressional Globe, 25 Cong., 2 Sess., appendix,
                            140, 260, 293, 494; 25 Cong., 3 Sess., appendix 45; 28 Cong., 2 Sess., appendix 39; 29
                            Cong., 1 Sess., 1072, appendix 777.
               
                     land measures came to a vote? With one minor
                    exception, they sustained thei'r opinions with legislative action.18 On
                    each of the major issues that led them to introduce the safety-valve argument, those who urged land
                    reform as a solution to the problem voted for such reform. They supported the graduation bills in
                    1826, 1828, 1830, 1839, 1844, and 1846, survey bills in 1831 and 1832, and pre-emption bills in 1837
                    and 1838, and they opposed distribution bills in 1832, 1833, and 1837.
            In the second place, it should also appear that the labor problem held a primary position in the
                    thought of those who 'referred to it, if it is to be accounted a primary explanation of their
                    action. A broad view of the speeches, however, shows that land reform congressmen advanced the
                    safety-valve argument and the labor problem as one of many reasons for promoting the economic
                    development and peopling of the West. That much is indicated by the great number of speeches they
                    made extolling the beauties of Western rural life and by their splendid tributes to the democratic
                    existence in the West. Only occasionally did they 'refer to the possible reactions of their policies
                    on the East. Their personal political motivation was further shown in a desire to obtain local or
                    sectional advantage for themselves and their rural constituents. There is no reason to doubt that
                    Western congressmen were sincere believers that good consequences would come to the East following
                    the enactment of their land policies, or that they were genuinely interested in the welfare of
                    Eastern workingmen. But the place that those arguments held in their speeches was distinctly
                    subordinate to aims of more immediate significance for Western politics, and their tone was that of
                    aiding the West (and themselves) rather than of concern for labor welfare.
            The basic arguments about the oppression of the poor in the old Eastern states, the opportunities of
                    escape from oppression and dependence, and the moral and natural rights of the people to the land
                    were advanced on innumerable occasions by a great number of congressmen. The columns of the Register of Debates in Congress and the Congressional Globe are
                    filled with such sentiments.
            
               
                  18 Senator George Poindexter of 
                            Mississippi
                         spoke against a distribution bill but voted in favor of it. Register
                            of Debates in Congress, 22 Cong., 2 Sess., 158.
            
            
            When the arguments specifically concerning wage earners were brought forward in Congress, however,
                    they were used by men whose political fortunes and interests were most remote from the labor
                    movement. The view that workers would escape being driven into factories if western land were made
                    cheap was advanced by eighteen congressmen, all Democrats, on twenty-four occasions in twenty-five
                        years.19
            
            The southwestern legislators, led by Senator 
                        Benton
                     of 
                        Missouri
                    , who formed the large majority of this group were evidently not thinking of those men
                    in the East who already formed part of a wage-earning class and an organized-labor movement. They
                    spoke of men who might be saved from that fate. But their primary object in each case was directed
                    toward obtaining specific action on public land bills, and the arguments referring to labor were
                    incidental.
            The proposition that land 'reform would save the Easterner from having to work for low wages was also
                    more closely associated with the West than with the labor movement. That aspect of the safety-valve
                    idea appeared in debates on land questions fifteen times and was used by thirteen speakers during
                    the period.20 In the entire group, only two of the speakers intimated that
                    actual rather than potential wage earners would seize the opportunity of escaping from low wages by
                    emigrating to the West.21
            
            The two ways in which congressmen argued that cheap western lands would effect a positive improvement
                    of eastern 
                  
                     19 It was used once by a southeastern speaker, Hayne (
                                South Carolina
                            ), sixteen times by congressmen from the southwest, led by 
                                Benton
                             (
                                Missouri
                            ), Clement C. 
                                Clay
                             (
                                Alabama
                            ), and John McKinley (
                                Alabama
                            ), and seven times by those from the northwest. Register of Debates
                                in Congress, 20 Cong., 1 Sess., 502, 518, 519, 621–622; 21 Cong., 1
                            Sess., 4, 24, 34, 212, 425; 22 Cong., 1 Sess., 785, 1174, 2265–2266, appendix
                            122; 22 Cong., 2 Sess., 158; Congressional Globe, 23 Cong., 2 Sess., 241;
                            25 Cong., 2 Sess., appendix 139, 399; 25 Cong., 3 Sess., appendix 45, 59; 28 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                            appendix 55; 29 Cong., 1 Sess., appendix 777.
                  
                     20 The speakers from the southwest were chiefly from 
                                Mississippi
                             and 
                                Alabama
                            . Register of Debates in Congress, 20 Cong., 1 Sess., 518.
                            519; 21 Cong., 1 Sess., 24; 22 Cong., 1 Sess., 2265–2266; 24 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                            1249–1250; Congressional Globe, 25 Cong., 3 Sess., appendix 45,
                            59; 29 Cong., 1 Sess., appendix 777. Congressmen from the northwest used this argument to
                            about the same extent, chiefly men from Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                            . Register of Debates in Congress, 22 Cong., 1 Sess., 1174;
                                Congressional Globe, 23 Cong., 2 sess., 241; 25 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                            appendix 139, 399; 25 Cong., 3 Sess., appendix 57; 28 Cong., 2 Sess., appendix 55; 29 Cong.,
                            2 Sess., appendix 39.
                  
                     21 Edward A. Hannegan (Indiana), Congressional
                            Globe, 23 Cong., 2 Sess., 241; Richard M. Young (
                                Illinois
                            ), 25 Cong., 3 Sess., appendix 57.
               
                     conditions and operate as a safety valve should, finally,
                    provide the most direct evidence that labor influence had an effective bearing on land policies in
                    Congress. But in thirty years it was suggested four times in debates on land that westward migration
                    would raise wages in the East,22 and three times that it would avert social
                        unrest.23 Considering the millions of words spoken in Congress during those
                    decades, it is not an impressive showing.
            A few conclusions may be drawn from this analysis. The land-labor thesis was never advanced as a
                    primary argument either for land reform or against it by congressmen in the Jacksonian period. When
                    it was used, it was nearly always incidental to more emphatically western objectives with which it
                    appeared to coincide. It seems reasonable to suppose that Western congressmen put the interests of
                    their own constituents above the welfare of a numerically small group such as organized labor in
                    remote parts of the country, but there is no need to raise the question, since a formula was at hand
                    that reconciled those interests. Hundreds of congressmen supported and enacted land laws. Only a
                    handful mentioned labor, and they did so only casually. Except Caleb Cushing, an Easterner and a
                    Whig, who believed that the West was a safety valve and who supported land reform. No evidence has
                    been found that any congressman in the quarter century from 1824 to 1849 was significantly
                    influenced either by the safety-valve idea or by labor problems in acting to liberalize the land
                    policy.
            
               
                  22
                        Register of Debates in Congress, 21 Cong., 2 Sess., 477; Congressional Globe, 28 Cong., 2 Sess., appendix 55; 29 Cong., 1 Sess., 1072; 29
                        Cong., 2 Sess., appendix 39.
               
                  23
                        Register of Debates in Congress, 24 Cong., 2 Sess., 1249–1250; Congressional Globe, 23 Cong., 2 Sess., 241; 29 Cong., 2 Sess., appendix
                    39.
            
         
         
         
            The Editor's Pages
            
                    Attention History Teachers
                
            Miss 
                        Alberta
                     Cannon, president of the Indiana History Teachers Association, has sent a letter to the
                    members of the association and has requested that it be printed in the Indiana Magazine
                        of History. She wishes that it be regarded by our readers who are teachers of history as a
                    personal invitation to join the association.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dear Members of the History Department:
                        The Indiana History Teachers Association has had an annual meeting in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , for many years, during December, at the Indiana History Conference
                                    sponsored by the Indiana Historical Society, Society of Indiana Pioneers, and the
                                    Indiana Historical Bureau. The date has been the Friday and Saturday nearest
                                    December 12. The history teachers' program consists of a morning and a luncheon
                                    session on Saturday. But all other meetings are open to the teachers.
                        Those teachers who have attended have found the programs interesting, challenging,
                                    and helpful. Fellowship with other teachers has been stimulating, also.
                        But those who have been in charge of the program have found it embarrassing to beg
                                    busy people to journey to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     and present papers that have taken hours of research, without being
                                    able, often, to even pay their expenses. You see, our organization has existed on
                                    good will instead of adequate dues.
                        Other organizations of prestige, civic and professional, are supported by state dues.
                                    Won't you teachers of the college, high school, and elementary history
                                    departments please make our professional organization one of which you can be
                                    increasingly proud!
                        Teachers in high school and elementary departments depend upon teachers in the
                                    college departments for their training. They, in turn, depend upon an interested,
                                    efficient core in high school and grades to make history, civics, and economics
                                    function in the lives of our future citizens. Without an intelligent, informed
                                    citizenry democracy cannot last. Is it not vital, especially in this critical
                                    period, that we work together toward creating such a public?
                        With this object in mind the teachers attending the December, 1946, meeting adopted
                                    the following motion:
                        "The Indiana History Teachers Association shall have an annual fee of three
                                    dollars which shall include a yearly subscription to the Indiana
                                        Magazine of History. This in turn will include membership in the Indiana
                                    Historical Society, entitling each member of the History Teachers Association to one
                                    copy each of the Publications of the Historical Society."
                        Such material will prove invaluable to the teacher of history, civics, or economics.
                                    You have only to go through some of the recent magazines and publications to be sure
                                    of that.
                        
                        Won't you join the Indiana History Teachers Association, enjoy the Publications of the Historical Society, and come to our annual
                                    meeting?
                        To make the December, 1947 meeting outstanding, the program committee needs to know
                                    now what finances it can count on. So I am asking you to please send your dues
                                    ($3.00) to Mr. Hartwell A. Kay-ler, Howe High School, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . Mr. Kayler will send two dollars to the Historical Society and keep
                                    one dollar for the organization. Or, if you desire, send two dollars directly to:
                        Indiana Historical Society 408 State Library and Historical Building 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     4, Indiana and one dollar to Mr. Kayler.
                        If you are now a member of the Historical Society and have paid your next
                                    year's dues, then please send one dollar to Mr. Kayler.
                        I sincerely hope that your response to this appeal will be 100%, and I
                                    trust that I shall see all of you at the meeting in December.
                     
                  
               
                
            The Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     Association, First National Bank Building, 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               ,
                    solicits information concerning the present private ownership and location of any document composed
                    by Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , whether or not it has been published hitherto. Documents in public institutions are
                    readily accessible, but many of those held by individuals have not been located to date. The
                    preparation of a complete edition of 
                        Lincoln
                    's writings from original sources will be greatly facilitated by information
                    leading to procurement of photostatic copies of documents held by private individuals.
                    Acknowledgment of assistance will be fully made upon publication.
            The Committee on Research in Folklore, of the American Folklore Society, annually publishes in The Journal of American Folklore a list of folklore projects which are in
                    progress. The writing of books, monographs, special studies, library research, and field collecting
                    are included. Folklorists are requested to send information on their current activities to Herbert
                    Halpert, 60 West Winter Street, 
                        Delaware
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , before September 10.
            
            From time to time, gifts have been made of county histories, atlases, diaries, letters, and other
                    material pertaining to Indiana. Among those who recently have made such gifts to the Indiana
                    University Library are Lucia May Manning of Anderson, Mrs. Ura Saunders of Gosport, Mrs. Alfred
                    Tomlinson of Summitville, Mrs. Harry Watts of 
                        Vincennes
                    , H. C. Harper of 
                        Versailles
                    , Allen M. Grecian of Flat Rock, Karl W. Kiger of 
                        Bloomington
                    , and William 0. Lynch also of 
                        Bloomington
                    .
            We appreciate these gifts and hope others will follow the example of the above-mentioned. Such
                    material will aid in producing a more complete history of Indiana. A growing number of graduate
                    students in Indiana and Middle Western History makes it increasingly necessary that we enlarge our
                    holdings of manuscripts and early publications.
         
         
         
            Documents
            THE KOTHE LETTERS
            
                    Translated and edited by John C. Andressohn
                    ⋆
                
            In no way can the spirit of the past be recalled better than by a study of contemporary letters.
                    Through the kindness of Mr. Herman W. Kothe of 
                        Indianapolis
                     a number of interesting 
                        German
                     letters were placed at the disposal of the 
                        Indiana Magazine of History.
                     These letters, while in part personal, nevertheless, throw much light on the early life in our
                    state.
            Mr. Kothe was kind enough to furnish background for the material. He writes: 
                        The earliest letter [actually it is the second letter], dated January 15, 1854, was by my
                            great grandfather, Justus Meyer, to my grandfather, William Kothe, who then lived in 
                                Baltimore
                            . Justus Meyer had been a teacher in the schools of Melsungen, a town of about
                            7,000, on the Fulda River, near [about twenty miles south of] Kassel. He had likewise been a
                            teacher of music and, as player of the organ in the Lutheran Church, was known as Cantor.
                            During the revolution in 1848 he was elected as a representative to the Assembly in Kassel.
                            When the reaction set in he became more dissatisfied with conditions in Hessen [the
                            Grand-duchy of Hesse or Hesse-Kassel] and decided in 1853 to migrate to America with his
                            family. He was then 57 years of age. Two sons had migrated in prior years.
                        William Kothe, my grandfather, had also been a native of Melsungen and in 1849 migrated to 
                                Baltimore
                            . He completed the school training of the town creditably and had had some
                            experience as Clerk in the administrative divisions of the government, but had,
                            unfortunately, not perfected himelf in any trade. In consequence, his first years in 
                                Baltimore
                             were very difficult. He was twenty-seven years of age, and in desperation
                            finally took employment as an apprentice in a bakery. Upon the death of his grandfather in
                            Melsungen, from whom he inherited a small estate, he returned to 
                                Germany
                             in 1853 to receive his share, and in view of the small progress he had made in
                            America he looked about hoping to find economic opportunities there. After traveling about
                            and reviewing the situation, he fully recognized the serious economic plight of the country
                            and determined once more to attempt to make a go of it in America.
                        Aboard the sailboat on which he made his return trip were Cantor Meyer and his family. It was
                            during that trip that Christine Meyer and William Kothe were engaged. William Kothe stayed
                            in 
                                Baltimore
                            , 
                        
                           ⋆ John C. Andresohn is associate professor of
                                    history at Indiana University, 
                                        Bloomington
                                    , Indiana. The material in brackets has been supplied by the translator
                                    and editor of these letters.
                     
                             desiring to establish himself in business there. He
                            planned to use his estate in the purchase of a grocery store. Christine and her father,
                            mother, and her brother Jean, proceeded to Indiana, where they finally established
                            themselves in the virgin forest there, building a log house immediately after arrival.
                    
            
            The earliest letter, which is torn in places, undated, with no signature, was probably written by
                    Christine Meyer to her fiance soon after she had completed the journey from 
                        Baltimore
                     to Indiana. Herman W. Kothe states that it was sent in 1853 from 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It is addressed to "Dear, beloved William." In a graphic manner she
                    describes the hardships of the trip.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Learn self-denial in order to be happy. This maxim should be deeply, deeply impressed
                                    on one, before one enters upon the very difficult journey to America. After a trip
                                    of ten days we, to be sure, arrived safely at George's, but almost too much
                                    had to be endured during this trip as we made it. It was cheap, 'tis true, but also
                                    heartily wretched. As far as 
                                        Harrisburg
                                     we got along quite rapidly; at eleven o'clock we were already
                                    there. From then on, however, it was bad. We had to wait there until 10
                                    o'clock for the emigrant train. That is a miserable trip, for they proceed
                                    entirely at their volition; they have no definite schedule for arrival. Having run a
                                    few hours, the cars again came to a standstill for half a day and later for half of
                                    the night. It was not until Tuesday night that we arrived in 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    ; there we had to spend the night, and on the next day we boarded the
                                    steamship. I believed that I had already borne all the inconveniences which we
                                    should have during the trip, for you told me that on board the ship it would be very
                                    nice, but here, dear William, the misery really began. We were quartered in the
                                    lower deck. The large passenger ships, due to the low water stage, are not
                                    operating, therefore our ship was a small one. The space, which should have been
                                    given over to the passengers, was so crammed with crates and barrels, that one could
                                    hardly find a small space on the floor to make our humble bed. Since we had no
                                    bedding with us, what we endured was really something. I much preferred not to lie
                                    down at all, for when one got up one actually felt .broken apart. Yet, despite all,
                                    I slept, at times on the crates. Then there was the terrible heat from the boilers
                                    and from the sun on the outside. I must confess, dearest William, I was once again
                                    truly unhappy, though I believe if you had been with me, I should have borne it more
                                    easily.
                        Saturday evening we arrived at 
                                        Madison
                                     [spelled Mathesen]. The train from there had already left and so, due
                                    to the fact that no train may run on Sundays, we were compelled to remain until
                                    Monday morning. Father, impelled by boredom and curiosity, went to the church of a
                                    free evangelical congregation. The pastor had just finished Sunday school with his
                                    children. He gave father a book to enable him to follow the service and later they
                                    conversed, in the course  of which he
                                    ascertained that father was a teacher, and also urged him to play the organ. He then
                                    requested him to stay with him, offering to pay him 24 dollars a month for assisting
                                    him a little in the school. Father naturally did not accept, but also did not
                                    entirely reject the offer. If the buying of a farm does not proceed rapidly, he may
                                    undertake it.
                        Monday noon we arrived here [
                                        Indianapolis
                                    ?]. George was at the depot. He looks very well and was in
                                    the best humor. But he had hardly expected us so soon, for he had received our
                                    letter on Sunday, and in consequence he had nothing in order. We went again to a
                                    hotel. Then in rapid succession a lodging was rented and chairs and a stove were
                                    bought. George made a table the next day. So far good neighbors have helped us out,
                                    whom we are every day obliged to impose upon. They are tailors, also Germans. At
                                    their house we cooked our first coffee. We live like those uncivilized, at least
                                    half-civilized. Beds we do not have as yet, for our things have not arrived. Every
                                    night the miserable bedding, consisting of straw sacks and woolen blankets, which we
                                    fortunately had with us, is laid upon the floor. We had difficulty in obtaining
                                    straw. Furthermore, everything here is very expensive; old potatoes 30 cents a peck
                                    and new ones way over a dollar. It will be expensive to live here. One fortunate
                                    thing is that here at the house there is a good well and we can get wood near it.
                                    [At this point the left side of the page has a hole about two inches square.] We
                                    live in a neat little frame house. Here things are generally so primitive, that I
                                    must admit that it hasn't pleased me a bit so far. After I have been here a
                                    while, I hope that I shall like it better. If you could only be here; that, to be
                                    sure, is not yet possible, for only today father is at Karl's to look about
                                    and get his advice. George is on the look-out for a sawmill. He would have written
                                    you, but we do not yet know what we shall do. We'll have to await
                                    father's return. [The trip of her father, who had set out to purchase a
                                    farm, is described in the second letter.] Oh, dear William, the thought of how we
                                    shall start really frightens me at times. It will no doubt be quite difficult, but
                                    we'll place our faith in God; He will quite certainly help us. Now fare
                                    thee well, and send me word real soon. Is your cough better?
                        One thing more, yesterday I was, out for the first time. I was at
                                    Hilgenberg's. He and his wife came with their wagon and called for me. They
                                    had been here once before, on ... . Tuesday [the missing words may be "the
                                    first"], also with the wagon to call for us, but the weather was so bad
                                    that I could not go along. Yesterday, therefore, I saw his establishment and wished
                                    that ours might be as far along. He lives at the edge of the woods; has 4 cows, 2
                                    steers, 3 horses, 20 sheep, and a whole barnyard full of poultry. What a confusion
                                    of pigs and various feathered creatures! She is a fine and very industrious wife. I
                                    believe that she wishes that [he or she; meaning is not clear, would seem to refer
                                    to herself] were better educated, and yet they appear to live happily together.
                                    Think of it, they insisted that I should by all means ride horse-back, but I
                                    couldn't make up my mind to do that.
                     
                  
               
                
            
            The second letter was sent from 
                        Tipton
                    , Indiana, on January 15, 1854. It was penned by Justus Meyer to his prospective
                    son-in-law, William Kothe.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        In order to be able to do more than merely inform you of my address, I have delayed
                                    answering so long. I beg to be excused for waiting until after the receipt of your
                                    second letter of December 28 of last year to answer the one of the third of that
                                    month. That I have now come into the wild (Christian calls it Walachei) [To the
                                    Germans Wallachia represented a forlorn wilderness] is known to you, but probably
                                    not the reason. I have been traveling around with Karl for many days looking at
                                    farms. I also made a bid on a farm here and there, among others one near Cicero
                                    [Indiana], consisting of 160 acres, which except for the house was quite an
                                    attractive and productive farm. I bid $3,000. Then, just as we were
                                    passing through 
                                        Tipton
                                    , we learned of the public auction of the last state-land, the
                                    school-section of 620 acres. Although we barely had time to view the land, we
                                    purchased 320 acres for $2142.00, and in so doing have provided labor for
                                    my life as well as that of my descendants. I hope we shall in consequence of this
                                    effort find our deserts. All beginning is difficult, a thing which I previously
                                    pointed out to Karl. With Karl's help along with that of the others, if God
                                    grants us health, we shall make it go. I like to work in the open; I enjoy planting
                                    as well as gathering the harvest. I hope you will convince yourself with your own
                                    eyes that we in our situation could not do better. My experience has already cost me
                                    something here and there, and it will cost still more; that is to be expected.
                        [The general trend of the next paragraph is: Give greetings to our various friends in 
                                        Baltimore
                                    .] If you should perchance see our good pilot, assure him of my enduring
                                    esteem, I beg you, and tell him that I and my whole family are well and happy in 
                                        Tipton
                                     in the state of Indiana, where we have a farm. Our colorful life aboard
                                    the ship recalls truly pleasant memories despite its monotony. The seasickness, the
                                    eternal swaying, the horn sounding weirdly in the dense fog–all these
                                    incidents recede into the background. It is an admirable thing that the unpleasant
                                    is so quickly blotted out from our memory. Europeans ought not to be so terrified by
                                    an ocean journey. Our friend Nohl [?], according to his letter of
                                    September 5 of last year hopes to be able to relate his stormy past experiences at a
                                    cozy fireside [in Melsungen], to tell of his unsuccessful hopes and his
                                    disappointments. I hope he will encourage our friends who have been left behind to
                                    follow us. For a great many Melsunger, says my kinsman J. Worst, will follow us. It
                                    will indeed be a good thing for them, if they come. Work and food can be found here
                                    everywhere.
                        I was in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     a week ago (the train leaves 
                                        Tipton
                                     at 7 A.M. and arrives in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     at 9 A.M., departs from there at 1 o'clock and at 3 I can be
                                    home again). I went there to get laborers, only two for a few months, but could not
                                    find any, so scarce is labor here. Up to now I have been compelled to pay 75 cents a
                                    day and meals, and can't even get any. If I did not have a family of
                                    workers,  I'd be in a bad way. Karl is
                                    expert with the ax. A few days ago I contracted to have four acres cleared at
                                    $5 per acre plus board. This spring I hope to have with me an aged but
                                    faithful worker from Gux-hagen [a village near Melsungen] and also John Kraft. His
                                    son is in 
                                        Baltimore
                                    . G. Worst wrote me that one of the Ellenbergers, a brother-in-law of
                                    Mayor Schmoll [of Melsungen?], desired to come to us and help. He is
                                    honest and diligent. We can use him
                        Although the region and the woods are wild and the temperature at present raw (since
                                    Christmas we have had two weeks of continued cold, 6 to 8 degrees, then three days
                                    12 to 14, the last three days again cold, on the 14th of this month 10 degrees), I
                                    like it withal because of the friendly and helpful attitude of the neighbors. Every
                                    week I have visits from neighbors, though, sorry as I am, I am unable to return them
                                    all. One evening five came, bringing with them their church hymns in four voice
                                    arrangements; we had hardly sung for half an hour when there were twelve strangers
                                    in my room. They came with lanterns and mostly on horse-back. An exceptionally good
                                    tenor was among them. It is too bad that we could not sing our beautiful 
                                        German
                                     hymns. Not a one of them understands a word of 
                                        German
                                    , and I as yet little English. We have always understood that the
                                    American is not sociable, but my neighbors are a pleasant exception. A few days ago
                                    our friendly neighbor King, with whom we lived five weeks, arrived at 6
                                    o'clock in the morning to discuss some matter with Karl, and in the
                                    eveliing he came with his well-educated wife to visit with us. Twelve days ago he
                                    took Christina in his hunting-sledge to the Sunday services at the
                                    "Meading" church [meeting; probably refers to Quakers] and today
                                    again he sent an invitation. They are devout, and indeed the fundamental
                                    characteristic of the American is religiosity, based on his supreme principle: No
                                    happiness without liberty, no liberty without morality, no morality without
                                    religion. They practice their religion through a life of brotherly love. They often
                                    go to church, but pay for no preacher. They are their own preachers, not trained,
                                    but nevertheless preach in an engaging manner; they exhort one to a kindly
                                    disposition, to brotherly love; at times they exhibit a certain narrowness in
                                    matters of faith, but yet they are very tolerant, do not ask about their
                                    neighbor's creed, do not baptize their children, but leave that to the
                                    children themselves whether they want to join a sect and then be baptized. Thus you
                                    will find here persons twenty years old and older who have not been baptized. 
                                        Tipton
                                     has a good school and a capable teacher, but no parsons [the word
                                    employed is 
                                        Pfaffen,
                                     used in an unfavorable sense and usually refers to priests]. However, that
                                    raven band has here too reared high its head in the larger cities such as
                                            
                              Cincinnati, Indianapolis
                           , etc., even in the country
                                    districts. The Jesuit Volmer [of Melsungen] would play a sad part here with us. The
                                    poor deceived folk in Melsungen!
                        [The letter closes with words of greeting to various 
                                        Baltimore
                                     friends, and expresses thanks to the daughter of Schirmann for bringing
                                    along a coffee roaster.]
                     
                  
               
                
            
            The third letter was written by Justus Meyer and sent to William Kothe from 
                        Tipton
                     on August 10, 1854. It deals with the hardships and difficulties of pioneer life.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dear Son-in-Law,
                        You can realize that the 'arrival of my godchild August with M. Korn gave us
                                    never-ending pleasure. We almost forgot to go to sleep. In good health they arrived
                                    here on Monday, June 26, at 6 o'clock in the evening. They had enjoyed
                                    Sunday in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , at Mr. Hil-genberg's and with George, who boards there. The
                                    fine saplings and slips, which the godchild was bringing along, were lost between 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     and 
                                        Richmond
                                    . George made efforts in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     to recover them, but to no purpose. They would have been worth more
                                    than $20 to me. The postmaster in 
                                        Tipton
                                     said that in 
                                        Baltimore
                                     the packages should without fail have been provided with my address, in
                                    which even he could readily have located them, but lacking an address, nothing could
                                    be done. It will irritate Koehler. Have him send a package from there [
                                        Baltimore
                                    ], for which I shall gladly pay him two dollars, which, however, will by
                                    no means adequately pay him for his trouble. Do send me by mail, before winter sets
                                    in, fruit kernels such as good cherries and pears etc., for of all the seeds which I
                                    planted, cherries, pears, apples, berries, nuts, only two apple-kernels sprouted.
                                    Everything was lost because of wetness, ice, and frost. After my godchild and Korn
                                    had rested a few days, clearing the area in front of the house was begun, and in
                                    eight days five acres had been completed. Would that they were already fenced in.
                        August is handy at all work, accomplishes twice as much as Korn. This poor fellow has
                                    little ability for manual work; he will never be able to handle an ax. He is
                                    good-natured and obedient, does help mother with the washing some, but for himself
                                    as farm helper and for the farmer, it is a poor deal. A farm laborer from abroad
                                    would be delighted to come here for the 60 dollars which he gets for a
                                    year's wages, and with such a person I could really accomplish something.
                                    Plowing, mowing, fence building, all expensive essentials, "which every 
                                        German
                                     laborer knows, Martin will never learn. In his accomplishments he is
                                    not much better than Jean [John], and has neither the zeal nor the endurance of
                                    Jean, which doesn't mean that he may not be a very good tanner. For
                                    $60 Werner Gernhard, a capable laborer, would have come [from Melsungen].
                                    If they were only disabused of the idea that 60 dollars here requires only light
                                    work. If I were able to pay these 60 dollars for work performed, then these persons
                                    would have earned the right thereto, but not when I pay in advance and carry the
                                    risk. For if one dies or becomes unfit for work, the 60 dollars are gone. Sixty
                                    dollars in advance are the equivalent of $120 if the payment were made
                                    after the work has been performed. Every one should be on his guard against
                                    employing a person trained in a trade if he is to lay hold of an ax or a hoe. They
                                    perform such labor reluctantly, look longingly forward to the conclusion of the work
                                    period and do not want to learn the knack of this work. For me such a worker is an
                                    additional loss because Henry by his disobedience and his other  faults spoils every worker who is not already trained.
                                    From the outset Karl and Henry acted unfriendly toward August. [An unfriendly act of
                                    Karl's toward August is next described. Henry left and hired himself out to
                                    a nearby farmer for two months.] He gets ten dollars monthly and comes to visit us
                                    every Sunday. When he related that they work there two hours before breakfast and
                                    two hours after supper, I expressed the wish that here too Karl, Henry, and Martin
                                    each cut down before breakfast a small tree in front of our garden, where we have
                                    cleared, only a quarter of a half an hour's work and none in the evening;
                                    but Karl answered: "I will not work before breakfast" and Henry
                                    said: "I don't care to cripple myself by working." So I
                                    went out with Martin the next morning–Jean was still
                                    asleep–and each of us cut down three small trees, and we did the same the
                                    following morning. Martin now goes out regularly to tackle a tree and if he strikes
                                    a tough bird with a diameter of one and a half to two feet, he must have help. Henry
                                    and Karl in recent days have also come along, but they do as they desire, not as I
                                    wish. I can't keep them.
                        August is so anxious to learn English; for us, mother, Martin and me, it is just as
                                    necessary. Henry had received $60 from me in Kas-sel for English
                                    instruction, in order that we might learn from him. He was to write one sentence
                                    each day upon the blackboard, which I had set up for that purpose [probably in 
                                        Tipton
                                    ], but he failed to do it. I myself on several occasions copied passages
                                    from the grammar, but then Henry was too tired [to help; Henry apparently had
                                    learned a little English in Kassel, but failed to help the others in 
                                        Tipton
                                    .] "In short," August said, "I see they are
                                    both [probably Henry and Karl] blowing in the same horn to get rid of me. I shall
                                    have to learn English from an Englishman," and went off to Schenk. I shall
                                    have to engage a teacher during the coming winter.
                        And so I fare. Karl will probably soon establish his own household and leave us. In
                                    that case August intends to return to us for a time. But I would like to have either
                                    Karl or August, to have both costs me too much. I cannot pay August less than he
                                    receives elsewhere, and Karl wants $150 a year. In eight years he would
                                    be in possession of the farm. Under these conditions I must secure a reliable worker
                                    from our homeland, and even if I had to pay him 60, 80, or 100 dollars a year. After
                                    two or three more years Jean will be able, if God so wills it, to plow and to mow;
                                    then we shall get along. Under these unhappy conditions my small sum of cash
                                    resources will soon be exhausted. To maintain my necessary reserves I shall have to
                                    have the 100 dollars returned after two years [probably a loan]. To get ahead is out
                                    of the question, and [the possibility of having] to toil for others in my advanced
                                    years, to be racked with such work as clearing and fence building, which should be
                                    the lot of a young, sturdy man, no humane person would expect of me. We borrowed
                                    $20 from George four weeks ago. Now there is no meat, no rice, and also
                                    no money; we had to take things on credit.
                        I got corn a week ago two miles distant, 12 bushels @ 30 cents. Karl has
                                    80 bushels in his crib, and I offered him 30 cents, but he refused to sell me 12
                                    bushels, either all or none, so I had to fetch it  two miles. Our wheat crop has developed very meagerly. We had the poorest wheat
                                    in this vicinity, because Karl had failed to plow drainage furrows, and thus it was
                                    damaged by the cold and the dampness. August said: "Rather than raise such
                                    poor wheat, I'd grow none." Egler, our neighbor, has fine wheat,
                                    also the others. The oats are fair, and we have twelve loads of hay. Karl and August
                                    mowed hay at Egler's, he receiving three-fifths, we two-fifths. Martin and
                                    Henry made it [put it in the barn?]. We shall get few potatoes, because
                                    Karl planted them too late; he did not want to hitch up just for the potatoes alone,
                                    and I did not have a laborer to carry out my orders. August was not yet here. Henry
                                    and Jean have been hewing brambles in the uncleared area, which is full of roots. In
                                    the last two months it has rained only twice, thunder showers, each time accompanied
                                    by storm; the last time, on the third of the month, so severe, that nine trees
                                    crushed the corn in the large field near the house. At Wolschase's farm the
                                    damage was greater; there the storm broke down one-fourth of the stalks, and hurled
                                    many trees into the cornfield. This recent storm did not produce as much rain as the
                                    first, and the ground is again very dry. It is a marvel that things continue to
                                    remain green despite the drought. We hope and implore daily for rain.
                        Here in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     wheat flour costs $6.50 to 7.00. Butter costs 8 cents, eggs
                                    6 or 7 [a dozen?]. How much would the freight cost per hundred-weight
                                    from 
                                        Tipton
                                     to 
                                        Baltimore
                                    ? Would it probably be better to send produce than
                                    money? [Probably refers to the loan of $100 mentioned
                                    earlier.] The shipment would, of course, have to be insured. In 
                                        Noblesville
                                    , 20 miles from here, great quantities and good flour is milled for
                                    shipping.
                        This fall we, mother, Jean, the godchild, and I, plan to call on Ingels in October,
                                    if we by then have acquired some English. We are to get a load of apples there. Last
                                    year he harvested 2,000 bushels. We shall also visit Rohrscheid, Winter, and King.
                                    Christine should write to King's, but in English. Mrs. King has written to
                                    us, wants to know how things are going. King's letter I still have not
                                    answered. It will be hard work for me [to write in English].
                        If only the Baeder girl were here to help mother. I don't know, should I pay
                                    her passage money and agree to an annual payment of $10 to the elderly
                                    Baeder as long as she is in our service. She has repeatedly written us and pleaded
                                    that we pay the passage for her and her aged brother; she would be glad to work at
                                    anything she could do. Both would be useful to us, if they kept their promise and
                                    worked for us several years.
                        [The letter ends with a number of greetings.]
                     
                  
               
                
            The last letter was written about twenty years later, in 1874. Christine Meyer Kothe had returned to
                    Melsungen for a visit, and in this letter describes her trip and her reception in the old home. The
                    frugality of this pioneer family is evinced by the fact that she traveled in steerage. The letter
                         reveals a high degree of nostalgic longing for the old home
                    surroundings.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        That we have arrived safely in dear 
                                        Germany
                                    , you probably have learned, I hope, from Emma and George. Nevertheless,
                                    I shall have to start at the beginning if I am 
                                        to
                                     give a detailed account, a task which I dread, for you know how reluctantly I
                                    write. To begin with, in 
                                        Baltimore
                                     we had the most friendly reception. I was ill when I left there
                                    [probably 
                                        Tipton
                                    ], had pains in the small of the back and in my right side; I was in
                                    agony, and the trip on the train did not make matters any better, for the trip is
                                    strenuous and that followed by steerage, for that indeed is a horrible abode. Our
                                    cellar would be a salon in comparison. [After some comment on the trip, she avers
                                    that nothing would ever induce her to travel in steerage again.] What my emotions
                                    were when I saw the red tile roofs of Bremerhafen is beyond description; that is a
                                    thing that must be felt. [She then describes how she reached Melsungen, the many
                                    visits to relatives and friends. Despite the excellent 
                                        German
                                     of the letter, she speaks of a Herr Kast, who 
                                        rented
                                     a business (der den Holzhandel 
                                        gerendet
                                     hat). A touch of Indiana.]
                     
                  
               
                
            Around the edges of the letter she wrote numerous comments, which show that her thoughts were
                    constantly reverting to 
                        Tipton
                    .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Now, dear William, I don't regard your suit as too expensive; you surely
                                    needed one. The poultry rearing doesn't seem to be getting on very well.
                                    Feed them well and don't forget to water them, dear Henry. I hope you will
                                    succeed with the soap, dear Gustav.
                     
                  
               
                
            A translation of a letter of September 3, 1885, was also among the material placed at our disposal.
                    The original manuscript, however, was not included, which made it impossible to check the
                    transcription and the translation. The letter was written by William Kothe, who, as the contents
                    show, was still in 
                        Baltimore
                     and now married. It is addressed to his parents-in-law.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Last Saturday I received a letter from G. Koch, from 
                                        Bremen
                                    , with the enclosed letter for you, wherein he relates that his son only
                                    now, after many complications, has arranged their trip to America. They will be
                                    aboard the ship "
                                        Maryland
                                    ," Capt. Helmers, which should leave on the 15th or 16th of
                                    August. Furthermore, Koch writes that he was unable to engage one or two laborers,
                                    for you. However, on the trip to 
                                        Bremen
                                     he had induced an emigrant to America and his son to go to you. Despite
                                    every effort the machinist will find it difficult to find work here, for many of the
                                    same trade, who are locally well known, are still unemployed, due to the fact that
                                    the factories are operating only in part. Several from Melsungen, who had even been
                                    employed as mechanics in such factories, have already experienced ½  to ¾ of a year of unemployment, and
                                    there are yet no prospects for betterment. F. Schreiber (brother of William) also
                                    has no job, though every effort has been made in his behalf. In consequence he is
                                    obviously displeased and longs to return home. Arnold, who married the daughter of
                                    your neighbor Conradi, arrived 6 weeks ago and is also without employment. Widow
                                    Kruhn from Millstreet in Mel-sungen, will sail in a few days on the next sailboat,
                                    to return home, and the so-called Stollen (loaf shaped cake) Baker Kothe, has
                                    probably already landed there. What will the people of Melsungen say when those
                                    persons return?
                        In our vicinity–Norfolk and 
                                        Portsmouth
                                    –a yellow fever epidemic is raging in a terrible manner and
                                    is still on the increase. The cases are mainly fatal. Many physicians from here and
                                    other places have gone there and by such efforts the situation has been much
                                    clarified. The appeals from there are touching and even though substantial
                                    assistance (in money already over $50,000) has been sent, follow up calls
                                    are coming here constantly. During the last few days an appeal has come from the
                                    Germans there, stating that in addition to the pestilence they were now confronted
                                    with the danger of hunger.
                        For some time it had been our intention to dispose of our effects here and to move
                                    closer to you, but this has been consistently delayed from time to time. My wife has
                                    ever had a longing for such a place as would afford her some opportunity of
                                    associating with her parents and brothers, that if we can convert our property
                                    satisfactorily, I am for it. The conditions are still very depressed and it is not
                                    yet possible to determine when they will be better. In consequence stores are
                                    subjected to substantial losses. In addition, the demands of my family up to now, as
                                    well as those of others, are too substantial to enable me to meet all of them.
                        For more than a year my brother-in-law, Ohrenschall has boarded and roomed with us
                                    and in addition, in that time, has received from us quite a sum of money. It would
                                    amount to more than $100 in ready money. I have been unable to obtain
                                    reimbursement and in consequence my sister has been required to secure it with her
                                    estate. My brother comes along without a cent and pawns his musical instrument for
                                    $25.00. After chasing about endlessly, I procured its release, for who
                                    was expected to pay: no one but I. For the past 8 days he is instructing in a newly
                                    built school, for the assurance of which position I have made considerable
                                    sacrifice. Because of the depression and the sacrifices named, our stay here has
                                    been spoiled and as I see it, our removal would be for the best. My wife is of the
                                    opinion that in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     there would be various opportunities for our livelihood. In what manner
                                    we shall again become occupied we shall leave [to the future], for on the site one
                                    may come to a conclusion and find a position, which one has not thought of. We have
                                    related to you conditions here for the purpose of obtaining your judgment as to the
                                    advisability of our settling in your vicinity, prior to entering upon an arrangement
                                    to sell. Write to us at your early opportunity.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Thomas Paine, Author of the Declaration of Independence. By Joseph Lewis. (
                        New York
                    , Freethought Press Association, 1947, pp. xix, 315. Illustrations, bibliography, and
                    index. $3.00.)
            Archbishop Whately once undertook to establish by strict application of the canons of historical
                    criticism that Bonaparte Napoleon was nothing but some kind of allegorical symbol instead of a real
                    flesh-and-blood person. The Archbishop succeeded in making a very good case albeit Napoleon was
                    still very much alive on the island of St. 
                        Helena
                    . Mr. Lewis has undertaken to prove that Tom Paine, not Thomas Jefferson, was the real
                    author of the "Declaration of Independence." He, too, has succeeded in building up
                    a very strong case.
            Mr. Lewis has reconstructed the relevant course of events somewhat as follows: Some time after
                    Richard Henry Lee's resolution had been introduced and after a committee had been appointed
                    to draw up a formal declaration, Tom Paine wrote the original draft and submitted it either to John
                    Adams or Thomas Jefferson, members of the committee. Both Adams and Jefferson, fearing that the
                    precious original draft might be lost, made copies of it in their own hands. Jefferson's
                    copy was styled by him the Rough Draft. Jefferson changed the wording of the Rough Draft by striking
                    out and interlining. Later he submitted this amended Rough Draft to the members of the committee who
                    made further changes. This amended draft was then submitted to Congress that made still further
                    changes by striking out and interlining before it was adopted on July 4.
            The author submits many opinions and bits of evidence. The reviewer can summarize only a selected
                    few.
            
               The substance and the style of the "Declaration of Independence" and Tom
                        Paine's Common Sense have such striking similarity that they could
                        only have been produced by the same man.
               John Adams' copy is replete with capital letters. Tom Paine was in the habit of emphasizing
                        words by the use of capitals. Adams must have copied Paine's original, including the
                        capitals.
               
               Jefferson in his Rough Draft wrote the same phrase twice in succession, then struck out one of
                        them, evidence that the Rough Draft was not an original draft but a copy.
               The Rough Draft of the Declaration condemns the institution of slavery and proposes its
                        abolition. When in the Continental Congress, opposition developed to this section, Jefferson
                        made no attempt to defend it, evidence that Jefferson did not really have convictions on this
                        subject and could not have been the real author of that provision.
               Activities and writings of Jefferson prior to June, 1776, indicate that the thought of
                        independence was so new to him that his thinking had not yet matured to the level of the
                        "Declaration of Independence."
            
            The reviewer submits that it is possible to reconstruct the course of events somewhat differently
                    without doing violence to the evidence. One may assume that Jefferson himself drew an original
                    Declaration of Independence, revised it by striking out and interlining until the document became
                    almost unreadable to anyone other than himself; that he then made a clean copy of this which he
                    styled the Rough Draft; that it was this draft that he passed to John Adams and that John Adams
                    copied it, capitalizing important words, primarily nouns, on his own accord since he, like Paine,
                    had the habit of using capitals freely. At any rate, Jefferson, if he copied from Paine, did not
                    feel obliged to reproduce the capitals as Adams did. After submitting his Rough Draft to Adams,
                    Jefferson continued to correct and to polish it by striking out and interlining before submitting
                    the amended draft to the committee. If one assumes this sequence of events, one has a perfectly
                    natural explanation of how in Jefferson's Rough Draft one phrase came to be repeated. The
                    Rough Draft was a copy, but a copy of Jefferson's original.
            The author makes the sweeping statement that he has examined the writings of Jefferson and that among
                    them there is no evidence that Jefferson was in favor of the abolition of slavery prior to the
                    drafting of the "Declaration of Independence." The simple fact is that in
                    Jefferson's Instructions to the 
                        Virginia
                     Delegates to the First Continental Congress, written by him about two years before
                    this, he does emphatically express himself as committed to the abolition of slavery and condemns the
                    King for having fastened this institution upon the colonies through his encouragement  of the slave trade. In this document also Jefferson states that the
                    people have received their rights from the law of nature and not from the King, that if the King
                    dissolves their colonial assemblies, all powers revert to the people. He condemns almost all acts of
                    Parliament condemned in the Declaration of Independence.
            Mr. Lewis takes an entirely different attitude with respect to the nature of the Declaration of
                    Independence than does the reviewer. Apparently Mr. Lewis assumes that the document embodies an
                    effort at the clear expression of absolute political truth and is horrified at the statement that
                    Adams and Jefferson made concerning the casual way in which they decided who was to try his hand at
                    drafting the document. He is inclined to believe they did not remember correctly. The reviewer
                    believes that their memory was probably accurate enough. It was not the task of the draftsman to say
                    anything new. If he did, it would defeat the purpose of the document. He must restate the
                    revolutionary philosophy that had been accepted by the colonists from the days of John Locke, repeat
                    the indictments against Parliament and King, using phrases to which they were accustomed. Jefferson
                    no doubt unconsciously borrowed from Paine. He probably was more indebted to Locke. The reviewer
                    looks upon the "Declaration of Independence" as a document of practical politics,
                    nothing less than a platform for a political party–the Whigs. The virtue of the document
                    would then lie in the fact that it was so drawn that it would receive the acceptance of the greatest
                    possible number of people and alienate as few as possible. Differences of view and of interest must
                    either be omitted from such a document or must be phrased as to permit different people to read
                    different meanings into it. Jefferson was only playing the part of the practical politician when,
                    after having performed the task of drafting such a document, he did not stubbornly insist upon the
                    retention of the antislavery clause but was willing to stand by and see the document so modified
                    that it would not drive some of the slavery states out of the budding Union. Without union the
                    resolution for independence could not have become effective and the formal Declaration of
                    Independence would have become an expression of academic idealism, of idealistic but blasted hopes
                    and intentions.
            The reviewer, along with some other historians, has long  assumed
                    that Jefferson was one of the most unscrupulous men that ever occupied the presidential chair, but
                    he cannot bring himself to believe that he was morally as low as the acceptance of Mr. Lewis' thesis
                    would compel one to believe. Think of the moral depravity of a man who would ask to have placed on
                    his tombstone the statement that he was the author of something or other that was really written by
                    someone else! Neither can the reviewer believe that Jefferson was fool enough to take such a risk.
                    Just think of the foolhardiness of a man claiming such authorship and accepting without hesitation
                    the credit universally ascribed to him, when old John Adams, his political enemy, and Ton Paine were
                    still living and, by revealing the truth, could have blown him and his reputation sky high!
            Mr. Lewis has produced a remarkable book. It is marred somewhat by the author's categorical
                    statement of personal opinions about matters that can be neither proved or disproved. For example,
                    the author states that the production of Common Sense "was the the
                    greatest single literary achievement in the history of the printed word." It may have been,
                    but it can't be proved. He has, however, made a strong case in his main contention. Men
                    have been hung before now when the prosecution had a much weaker case. An array of selected facts,
                    even though they have stood the test of the canons of historical criticism, do not always add up to
                    the truth.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Albert L. Kohlmeier
         
         
            
               Midwest at Noon. By Graham Hutton. (
                  Chicago, Illinois
               , University
                    of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1946, pp. xv, 351. End maps, line drawings, and index. $3.50.)
            Graham Hutton, war-time director of the Office of British Information at 
                        Chicago
                    , was Britain's ambassador at large to the Middle West. That he found time to
                    learn so much about us, and to write this book in the midst of other duties is certainly a testimony
                    to his energies. In Midwest at Noon he has done, in many respects, a more
                    difficult thing than his compatriots of an earlier day–Basil Hall, Mrs. Trollope, even
                    James Bryce.
            
               Midwest at Noon is not a history; it is a survey and an interpretation. The climate
                    and the environment are treated  in relation to the frontier
                    influence. The early population, based on the "Unconsidered Earth," was modified
                    by industrialization, different foreign immigration, business, science. "The Cities
                    Rise" and profusely affect the "Folk and Ways." The chapters on
                    "The Cult of the Average," "Ideas Incorporated," and
                    "We the People" contain some of the best observations in the book.
            One might question the somewhat arbitrary delineation of the Midwest–just why the 
                        Ohio
                     should be a dividing line and not the 
                        Mississippi
                     is not clear. The author saves himself, however, in referring to his
                    area–the Old Northwest plus 
                        Minnesota
                    , 
                        Iowa
                    , and 
                        Missouri
                    –as the "core" of the Midwest. There are historical
                    errors–for instance, p. 62, a great overemphasis on the contributions of the Yankees to
                    civilization in the area; the statement, p.115, that the Midwest "farmers were frozen
                    completely out" of politics during the period of industrialization; "the old
                    uniform equality of the settlers," p. 127; "the best black earth could be had
                    … at $1.25 per acre"; etc.–but one is amazed at their
                    fewness and insignificance. Errors of interpretation and analysis are also at a minimum. Perhaps
                    there is an overemphasis on business as god (basketball at times seems equally important) ;
                    "To the businessmen and bankers who dominated the Republican party, security meant
                    … rendering the costs of industry rigid" would hardly stand the test of facts;
                    the statement that "foreign trade was thought to be immoral" by the Midwest would
                    be hard to document–perhaps, forgetting their own early derelictions along that line, it
                    was the foreigners who did not pay their bills whom Midwesterners considered immoral;
                    "there is no folklore or family background" to the Midwesterner's
                    history. But here again the strikes are few and the hits many.
            Though the author is at his best on the big cities and the effects of industrial urbanization, the
                    small towns, rural areas, and byways are not neglected. Though naturally he is not acquainted with
                    the latter as well, he understands their basic importance. "Those fundamental and
                    remarkably searching political discussions in the stores, taverns, farms, and courthouses of 
                        Ohio
                    , and Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     before the Civil War do not seem so long ago when you go among Midwest farmers today.
                    This may seem very near to romantic idealism; but it goes on. It simply is not heard of by the  three-fifths of the population who are city dwellers in the
                    Midwest. And that seems to me a pity for both of the great divisions of the Midwest people. 'There
                    is a great gulf fixed. … " And again when he points out that American newspapers
                    are likely to fool outsiders more than the natives he is but recognizing the old pioneer use of
                    humor as a critical prop.
            So frequent are the shrewd and illuminating observations and bits of inspired writing that it would
                    be impossible to spoil the book for the reader even though the reviewer quoted dozens of them. He
                    cannot resist the temptation to quote one: 
                        There is more politeness in thanking than in asking. That is probably because midwesterners
                            like to be asked to do things or to help and are the most approachable (and approaching)
                            people. One is struck by the extent to which kindliness and considerateness form the basis
                            and justification of Midwest manners. It is as if the mutual aid and comfort of pioneers and
                            alien immigrants had been turned into sympathetic consideration for all men. But it is a
                            realistic sympathy and consideration. For instance, self-help must be exhausted before
                            consideration will be forthcoming. There is more help for someone who has suffered by an act
                            of God than for someone who has only himself to blame or can look after himself. A man will
                            take off his hat before a young stenographer in the office elevator; he will not give up his
                            seat to her in the streetcar; but he will get up for an elderly woman or an obviously
                            expectant mother. When he does get up, there is an awkwardness in his approach because he is
                            doing something good in public: "Here, take this seat," or "You
                            sit right here," he will say. In this there is some evidence of the midwesterners'
                            deep distrust of gallantry and "the gentleman."
                        This is strange because, between 1870 and 1910, in every big Midwest city there was what is
                            now called the "old school" of courtesy, manners, and elegance: a society
                            which could, on its home ground, compare with its counterparts anywhere in the world. These
                            were ‘the old men with beautiful manners.’ Some of them remain. Their
                            world has vanished. Instead, a new school of free-and-easy, familiar, natural bonhomie has sprung up. Its members, now in their forties, think the old school
                            "stuffy." They emancipated themselves from the old school of manners
                            during and after the first World War. Meanwhile, however, their children have been in the
                            second World War, and there are evidences of a return to more formal manners in this
                            informally brought-up younger generation. So does the wheel come full circle, and so are
                            parents surprised–and grandparents often delighted.
                    
            
            The shrewd and clever observations and at times brilliant writing in Midwest at
                    Noon could only have been the  product of the peculiar
                    combination of talents and experiences of a man such as Graham Hutton: a fine scholarship in
                    languages, literature and history, wide travel, a curious mind, a traveling man's
                    disposition, a businessman's experience, a facil pen, and the artist's intuition.
            The author draws upon his firsthand acquaintance with much of the world for many comparisons,
                    contrasts, and allusions; he gives the Midwest a kind of valuation which a Midwesterner could not
                    give it. There is no malice or prejudice in the book; nor is there the slightest striving for the
                    spectacular or an attempt to flatter us. Of the author's sincere liking for the region
                    there can be no question. In fact, the Midwest being, as it is, a state of mind, Hutton must have
                    been a Midwesterner long before he came here; his ancestors, by some quirk of fate, just happened to
                    have stayed in 
                        England
                    .
            
               Midwest at Noon and Era Bell Thompson's American
                    Daughter (1946) were sponsored by Newberry Library fellowships in Midwest History. These first
                    two publications by Newberry fellows have set a high standard for the projects still under way.
            The book with its end maps, line drawings for chapter heads, and neat typography makes an attractive
                    volume, as well as an important one.
            Indiana University
            R. Carlyle Buley
         
         
            
               The 
                            Lincoln
                         Reader. Edited by Paul M. Angle. (
                        New Brunswick
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    , Rutgers University Press, 1947, pp. xii, 564. Illustrations. $3.75.)
            Preparing a biography of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     is a difficult and involved task. The literature is extensive and the varied career of 
                        Lincoln
                     requires a writer to know much about the 
                        United States
                     from 1809 to 1865. A greater difficulty is found in the traditions and reminiscences
                    that have grown around the great man. In an effort to glorify him, his humble origins have been
                    exaggerated and his parents and wife subjected to very questionable treatment. Writers seeking to
                    make the man human have succeeded in picturing him as more eccentric, romantic, and melancholy than
                    he probably was. A true biographer needs to be a hardboiled scholar who will not hesitate to declare
                    that reminiscences  written twenty and thirty years after the
                    fact are scarcely reliable, that myths based upon such evidence hardly deserve to be dignified by
                    the attention they have received, and that there is a body of authentic 
                        Lincoln
                     material from which an adequate biography can be written.
            The present work is not such a biography, but it is a highly interesting and very useful substitute
                    for a new life. It is 
                        Lincoln
                    's career pieced together from the writings of many authors. Contemporaries of 
                        Lincoln
                    , modern writers, prominent officials, relatively unknown authors, historians, literary
                    figures and even 
                        Lincoln
                    's writings are drawn upon for these selections. At the beginning of each of
                    the twenty-four chapters is an introduction by the editor, and before each selection is a brief
                    comment about the event to be described or the author whose description is reproduced. These
                    introductions and comments are excellently done. They give evidence of the ability and knowledge of
                    the editor. Like his Shelf of 
                            Lincoln
                         Books (reviewed in this magazine in volume XLII, 413–414), they
                    establish his familiarity with the literature about 
                        Lincoln
                    . Sometimes they are more critical than the writing which follows. Generally, the
                    selections are well chosen. Almost any reader who is interested in 
                        Lincoln
                     will find several hours of instructive and fascinating reading in the volume. Because
                    of its brevity, its arrangement, and its low cost, its readers will probably be quite numerous. It
                    represents a very creditable performance.
            In evaluating its place in historical literature, it is necessary to note that its chief value will
                    probably be as a popular, but satisfactory brief account of 
                        Lincoln
                    's life. From its nature it cannot contain anything new. In bringing together
                    accounts of so many authors there could not help but be some inconsistency in approach and
                    treatment. This the author has skillfully kept at a minimum. The most glaring instance, perhaps, is
                    the editor's introduction to the chapter "Romance and Marriage," which is
                    scholarly and unemotional, but followed by a selection from Carl Sandburg which is an emotional
                    acceptance of the Ann Rutledge story with all its romantic details. The servant's view, pp.
                    190–192, is probably unfortunate for it gives evidence of a servant's prejudice
                    against any one who attempted to rise in the world. The picture of 
                        Lincoln
                    's visit to 
                        Richmond
                     has a mythical ring about it and was probably written several years after the  event. In the final chapter, too much attention seems to be
                    devoted to dreams. In general, the readers might have been given more information upon which to base
                    an evaluation of each selection.
            One might also ask whether or not the editor has met the standards which an adequate biography should
                    meet. He is well informed and scholarly, and obviously well-prepared for the task he has undertaken.
                    This volume is generally quite excellent, but it contains a small amount of material of questionable
                    worth, and some of the myths that surround 
                        Lincoln
                    . Isn't it time that someone should rescue one of the nation's
                    greatest leaders from the fogs that somewhat obscure him. Angle appears to be one of a very small
                    group of scholars who possess the necessary requirements.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               Motherhood on the 
                            Wisconsin
                         Frontier. By Lillian Krueger. (Published by the Author. 330 N. Carroll Street,
                            
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               , pp. ix, 44. $1.10.)
            This is a reprint of two articles in the 
                  
                            Wisconsin
                         Magazine of History. It is a review of the process of settlement on the
                    frontier from the woman's point of view. Original sources have been used and real people
                    and their actual experiences have been woven quite skillfully into the narrative. Building the cabin
                    home, caring for travelers and new settlers, religious services, teaching school, working out,
                    marrying, rearing children, and nursing the sick are topics that are treated in a simple yet
                    effective manner.
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            George Gill 
                        Knox
                    —Pioneer Cabinetmaker and Miller
            
                    Julie LeClerc Knox
                    ⋆
                
            I have always thought I'd enjoy a grandfather, but one of those I was entitled to passed off
                    the stage of life long before I came on, and the other, when I was too young to realize what a
                    grandfather meant. I have a vague recollection of a white-haired kindly old man, that might have
                    been Santa Claus for all I know, bending above my cradle. But he has always been a cherished
                    tradition with me. I have always regretted that I was not permitted to know him. From the county
                    history, old family letters, scrapbooks, and what I've heard my father and others say of
                    him, I know he was a fine, kindly gentleman, a good citizen, loved and respected by his family and
                    friends.
            Among some old papers yellow and tattered with age, I found a poem he had written entitled
                    "The Christian's Spring" which shows his love of nature and religious
                    convictions, and more culture than is usually found in nonprofessionals of that early time. Letters
                    from and to his children indicate that they depended on his judgment and advice. The relationship
                    which usually exists between children and their mother was assumed by him. I have an idea that
                    grandmother who was of the Poindexter family, that traced its lineage back to the thirteenth century
                    and to the counts de 
                        Granville
                     of the Isle of Jersey where the old manor house still stands near St. Helier, was proud
                    and of a colder nature. I have pictured her as somewhat remote and dignified in stiff, black silk
                    and lace mitts, leaving much of the mothering of her family to her husband and unmarried sister,
                    Louisa. In those days the only place in the universe for spinsters was that of the patient drudge in
                    the home of her married sisters. My father always spoke of his Aunt Louisa as an angel of mercy. She
                    risked her life crossing the 
                        Ohio
                     River on thin ice to be with her sister Maria who lived in Ghent, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and was expecting the stork. Louisa con- 
                  
                     ⋆ Julie LeClerc 
                                Knox
                             is a resident of 
                                Vevay
                            , Indiana, and president of the 
                                Switzerland
                             County Historical Society.
               
                     tracted Asiatic cholera from nursing an orphaned great nephew
                    and ended a life of abnegation.
            Amanda Ruter Dufour, a poetess of some distinction at that time, is quoted in the History of 
                     Dearborn, Ohio
                   and 
                            Switzerland
                         Counties, Indiana, as writing "We have spent many hours, that are
                    sweet to memory now, in the pleasant home of Mr. 
                        Knox
                    , hard by the mill. His gentle wife and sister, Miss Louise Poindexter, and Lizzie, his
                    daughter, near my own age then, are all tenderly 'remembered."1
            
            According to my father, grandfather believed, as did most people in those good, old days, that
                    children should obey their parents and took no foolishness from his progeny, although kind and fair
                    in meting out justice. He was fond of children and was wont to plane off curly shavings at his
                    carpenter shop for them to play with, as I've been told by the descendants of some of those
                    village children.
            A small photograph of grandfather, called a carde de visite, in those days, in the
                    old family album shows a hardy, elderly man with a heavy head of white hair, expectant looking eyes,
                    evidently blue, spectacled, straight nose, and firm but good-natured looking mouth, left out in the
                    open by white whiskers, landscaped off his face, and hanging fringelike under a square, steady chin.
            George Gill 
                        Knox
                    , who was born in 
                        Madison County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , came to 
                        Vevay
                     from 
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               , in 1815. He was a cabinetmaker, the first in 
                        Vevay
                    , and the evidence of his skill may be seen in some of the old homes of the county. A
                    maple bedstead of the style of 1830 and a graceful walnut table are in the possession of Evelyn
                    Craig of 
                        Vevay
                    , while a tall, handsome grandfather clock, cherry chest, walnut bureau, and
                    picturesque, old rocker are the prized property of the writer.
            When cabinetmaking ceased to be remunerative, he erected a carding machine to which he afterwards
                    attached a mill for grinding corn and wheat. This was said to have been one of the first, if not the
                    first gristmill in the county.
            Together with two or three other mechanics and John Mendenhall, he worked for some time on a
                    perpetual motion machine. They kept this a secret at the time. Needless to say the project failed
                    signally, but the fact of their essaying 
                  
                     1
                            History of 
                           Dearborn, Ohio
                         and 
                                    Switzerland
                                 Counties, Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885), 1131.
               
                     such an experiment shows ttiey were 'reaching out for
                    scientific progress.
            When there was a movement to locate the county seat at several other places, he offered to contribute
                    fifty dollars in carpenter work or ten dollars in cash. The value of the dollar has changed greatly
                    as is shown by the fact this offer was considered worthy of mention in the county history. Besides
                    his no other financial contribution was noted, except those of the Dufour brothers who founded the
                        town.2
            
            Grandfather was one of those who established the Methodist Episcopal church in 
                        Vevay
                    , and in 1828 as trustee, was one of a committee to attend to the erection of a suitable
                    building for worship. He was a leader of the temperance movement, which took moral courage, for then
                    as now, it was not popular. He was prominent in the Masonic and I.O.O.F. lodges and served as county
                    treasurer from 1830 to 1841.
            Grandfather was an enthusiastic supporter of Henry 
                        Clay
                     for president. At an early day 
                        Clay
                     visited the French-Swiss Colony at 
                        Vevay
                    , the guest of Jean Francois Dufour, Louis Gex Oboussier, and Jean Daniel Morerod. He
                    enjoyed quaffing the homemade wine of great Grandfather Morerod on the spacious lawn of what is now
                    the home of James S. Wright and his wife. The 
                        Vevay
                     friends of the Great Compromiser met in 1824 at the tavern of Thomas Armstrong, now the
                    home of Russell Pickett, and organized to promote 
                        Clay
                    's candidacy for president and of Andrew Jackson for vice-president. Jean
                    Francois Siebenthal was appointed chairman, and Grandfather 
                        Knox
                    , secretary. It is curious to note that at the same time another group of citizens met
                    at the courthouse to endorse DeWitt 
                        Clinton
                     for president and Andrew Jackson for vice-president; while a month later a larger group
                    pledged support to Andrew Jackson as president. While there seemed some difference of opinion as to
                    where "Old Hickory" belonged, there was a general agreement that he belonged on
                    the ticket, as succeeding events proved.
            Grandfather was a friend and associate of Jean Francois Dufour in promoting the interests of the town
                    and at the 
                  
                     2 Perret Dufour, The Swiss Settlement of 
                                    Switzerland
                                 County, Indiana, in the Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1916- ), XIII (1925), 365.
               
                     death of my maternal great Uncle Dufour, he served as executor
                    of the estate.
            Grandfather's commission from Governor Jonathan Jennings, as captain of a Rifle Company is
                    in the possession of the writer. This he later resigned to accept the appointment as adjutant of the
                    Fourteenth Regiment of Indiana Militia. In 1817 or 1818 the military companies of Jefferson, Craig,
                    Pleasant, and part of Cotton townships of 
                        Switzerland
                     County composed the Fourteenth Regiment of Indiana Militia, and it was one of these
                    companies that grandfather commanded.
            The first house grandfather built in 
                        Vevay
                     is located on 
                        Pike
                     Street. In the county history it is noted that he cut the logs and floated them down
                    the river.3 He built well for the house still sturdily stands and greatly belies
                    its age. Grandmother was the proud possessor of the first rag carpet in 
                        Vevay
                    . In an old family scrapbook appears an interview with Mrs. Loraine Wilcox, a pioneer of
                    the village, in which she tells about this carpet. She says grandmother bought forty yards of it for
                    forty dollars from a peddler. It seems grandfather had saved up that money for some fixed purpose,
                    and when he heard of her purchase he exclaimed, "Why, you have ruined me!" But he
                    did not scold, which illustrates his mildness or just the opposite characteristic of her for the
                    Poindexters were considered rather "highly strung." Everybody, however, came to
                    see the carpet.
            Mrs. Wilcox told the reporter that she had put the first clothes on Robert, the first child of my
                    grandparents, and that every year on the thirteenth of February, his birthday, he sent her a silver
                    dollar. When seventy-six, he jokingly used to say he came precious near being a valentine.
            The residence grandfather erected about 1827 on Main and Main Cross streets, opposite the courthouse,
                    continues as one of the quaintest and most interesting, old homesteads in the town. There are two
                    lots, 108 and 109 of the original plat as first laid out by Jean Francois Dufour from the land
                    purchased from Congress by his oldest brother, Jean Jacques. Dufour sold 108 to Jacob Evertson in
                    1823, for one hundred dollars, and Evertson sold it to grandfather in 1827 for the same price. Lot
                    109 was sold to Louis Gex Oboussier and Marianne, his wife, for two hundred dollars, and they in
                    turn 
                  
                     3
                            History of 
                           Dearborn, Ohio
                         and 
                                    Switzerland
                                 Counties, Indiana, 1238.
               
                     sold it to grandfather for the same in 1830. These deeds are in
                    my possession. The property belonged in the 
                        Knox
                     family until it was purchased in 1916 by William Lamson and is now owned and occupied
                    by his daughters, Laura, Josephine, and Mary (Mrs. Stevens).
            The old dwelling continues to sit for its picture by artists and photographers. It figures in the
                    little volume of thirteen woodcuts of the historic old places in 
                        Vevay
                     by August Meade, a descendant of old Robert 
                        Knox
                    , revolutionary hero, father of George G.; in neighborhood sketches made by Walter H.
                    Kiser of New 
                        Albany
                     and published in the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Times; and in a series of photographs by Jack 
                        Warren
                     Fox, in the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Enquirer, a few years ago."
            My earliest 'recollections of the homestead go back only to its occupancy by my father's
                    oldest brother and his wife to whom the place descended after my grandfather's death. Of 
                        New Orleans
                     French architecture, it sports a narrow front terrace, guarded by an iron grille, as
                    did the old home of Maurice Thompson in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , demolished some years ago. Two heavily paneled front doors open on this terrace.
                    Scarcely two rooms in the two-story edifice are on the same level. Entire walnut trees in their
                    natural state form the underpinning of the floors, and visitors are wont to descend to the basement
                    to look at them. The porches on the west and north are enclosed, but the one at the east is open and
                    leads into a spacious, pleasant 'room that was my father's birthchamber. From it through
                    French doors one steps up into what was the formal parlor. A tall, walnut grandfather clock,
                    handiwork of grandfather—now my prized possession —stood in a corner and was
                    an object of great reverence. There were horsehair sofas and chairs and marble-topped tables. Family
                    portraits and engravings in heavy gilt frames and a brass-framed pier glass kept each other company.
                    The elegant, dignified apartment was held sacred for special occasions.
            The other front room, large and attractive, had massive oak cupboards built in on each side of the
                    marble-manteled fireplace. In one of these auntie kept the cookie jar, which was never empty and was
                    the most exciting feature of the whole house to us children. There was a lovely, old bureau, 
                  
                     4
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Enquirer, November 6, 1938.
               
                     a marble-topped washstand, a large bowl and pitcher, and
                    accompanying slop jar at the side. In the large front window, potted blooming geraniums occupied a
                    series of stands, like an audience at a ball game.
            Back of the room just described is the dining room with its mantel piece. All the rooms except two
                    small, upper bedrooms had fireplaces. In those days a house was valued by the number of chimneys it
                    had. The furnishings in the dining 'room consisted of a large sideboard with quaint, old silver and
                    dainty fragile china with gold bands. A step down, one entered the large, cozy kitchen with built-in
                    cupboards opposite the stove. We often ate informally at the table here, after my uncle's
                    death, of the delicious food—hams, chicken, pickles, preserves, jellies, biscuits,
                    salt-rising bread, etc., prepared by auntie and the faithful handmaids, a succession of Sallies.
                    Those were the days when a good hired girl stayed on for years in a substantial, prosperous family.
            In one corner of the latticed side porch, leading into the garden, stood a large earthen ice cold
                    water jar, carefully swathed. There was a picturesque old well, now robbed of its sweep and
                    windlass, which we children loved to operate. "The Old Oaken Bucket" might have
                    been inspired by it. Old-fashioned flowers flourish in the large ga'rdens, wide fern beds
                    border the house, and rock roses used to peep between the rocks that formed the walk to the bam.
                    Gooseberries and currants offered refreshment on the way, and we were always ready to take a chance
                    on the persimmons, although the unpredictable fruit frequently left our mouth all a pucker.
            There are four bedrooms, two narrow crisscrossing halls upstairs with queer, little closets under the
                    roof. The two front bedrooms are dignified in size and content, with lovely, antique
                    furniture—old settees, four posters, wardrobes, etc. The other two bedrooms are smaller
                    and cozier with low ceilings and small-paned windows, casements swinging out doorlike.
            The stairway is narrow and crooked as a corkscrew, with the perilous, triangular steps of ye olden
                    time, as picturesque as an old fairy story book.
            There was a gentle restraint in the atmosphere of the place, that we did not race through the
                    dignified rooms as at my maternal grandmother's. We, however, always felt  welcome, but put on our best behavior and never found the cookie jar
                    empty.
            Uncle Bob was the oldest of the family and my father the youngest. There was so much difference in
                    their ages, that Uncle Bob was generally thought of as my grandfather. He was plump and short of
                    leg, addicted to a corncob pipe and high silk hat, then popularly called a "stove
                    pipe" or "plug" hat. He had made his "pile" farming and
                    flatboating, and at one time or another had done some work as clerk in the offices of the county
                    treasurer and recorder, but from my earliest recollections, he was retired and jokingly referred to
                    himself as "the most retired man" in the community. He was one of the founders of
                    the 
                        Vevay
                     Deposit Bank and its first president. His picture hangs there today. He was regarded as
                    one of the most solid financial citizens of the community. He loved to play the violin and spin
                    yarns and make jokes and spent much time chatting with his pals, the courthouse officials. He was a
                    picturesque pioneer figure.
            Uncle Bob's wife, Louisa Kern, was a member of a well-known family of the early times. There
                    is a legend that one of her ancestors lived in a hallow sycamore tree until he could get his cabin
                    built. This always appealed to me as fearless and heroic endurance. Aunt Louisa was tall and spare,
                    moving about on slender-slippered feet with a graceful, springing step, greatly belying her age. The
                    fact that she clung to a modified hoopskirt long after dame fashion had consigned such style to the
                    discard may have accounted for some measure for her billowy movements. I never saw her without the
                    be-ribboned lace cap that all elderly ladies wore then. Scott's lines in "Lady of
                    the Lake" describe her—"The mistress of the mansion came,
                    Matu're of age, a graceful dame." She looked well to the ways of her household,
                    seldom moving beyond its precincts, except to attend her church or to visit the sick. Kindly,
                    hospitable, great-souled, she often seasoned her remarks with quaint, quiet humor. Although she
                    lived to be almost eighty-nine, she never seemed to be old. She survived Uncle Bob some years and
                    was ready to accept the innovations he with pioneer snobbery had frowned upon. She installed
                    furnace, bath, and electric lights and was not above 'riding occasionally in her son's
                    auto, the first in the town. A remarkable woman, she kept a perennial interest in life, but when she
                    found it time to lay it down she did so with no regrets  saying
                    she had lived so long on earth, she was eager to see what the next life was like and regarded dying
                    as the great adventure. It seemed fitting, therefore, that during her funeral rites, her pet canary
                    should break forth in an exhileration of rejoicing as of a soul's release from its narrow
                    bounds into infinite freedom.
            Around the hospitable board of this delightful old homestead many distinguished guests were
                    entertained. Among others in the time of grandfather were Governors Robert P. Letcher and Thomas
                    Metcalfe of 
                        Kentucky
                    , Governor William Bebb of 
                        Ohio
                    , and Governor George Poindexter of 
                        Mississippi
                    , grandfather's uncle. Uncle Bob continued to dispense the hospitality for
                    which the place was known. Governor William Hendricks and Lieutenant-Governor Ira P. Chase of
                    Indiana were also among his guests—a record of governors as guests for one village home.
                    Ole Bull, the famous Norwegian violinist, marooned in 
                        Vevay
                     by a steamboat accident was also entertained there.
            Edward Eggleston says in his "Recollections of 
                        Vevay
                    ," that he remembers when Governors Metcalfe and Poindexter spoke from a
                    platform at the top of the 
                        Knox
                     mill in 1844. This old mill was afterwards moved to the rear of the yard where it now
                    stands.
            The gracious, old homestead still holds up its chin, as it we're, and retains much of its
                    original charm under the loving care of the Misses Lamson, whose kind hospitality and tasteful
                    arrangement of antiques and flowers carry on the traditions of the place.
         
         
         
            Indiana Branch of Shipman Genealogy
            Contributed by Mrs. Sylvan L. Mouser
               
                        ⋆
                    
            
            I 1 Samuel Shipman, Sr., came to 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana, soon after the War of 1812 in which he served from 
                        New Jersey
                    . He was descended from early American families chiefly of English descent. He was the
                    only son of David Shipman who d. 10–12-1787, Morris Co., N.J., and of his wife Elizabeth
                    (Betsey) Tingley, whose ancestry is given in Raymon M. Tingley, The Tingley Family
                    (Rutland, 
                        Vermont
                    , 1910), 30. She m. 2nd 7–4-1790, Benjamin Bonnell, III.) David Ship-man was
                    one of the children of Jabesh (Jabez) Shipman, Sr., a Revolutionary soldier who d. 1781, will
                    probated 12–9-1781, Morris Co., N.J., and of his wife Phebe Rogers who d.
                    11–16-1792, intestate Morris Co., N.J., and whose ancestry will be published later
                    showing lines established in D.A.R., and D.A.C. Samuel Shipman, Sr., was b.c. 1787, Morris Co.,
                    N.J.; r. Clark to Floyd Co., Ind., before 1820; m. Clark Co., Ind., 9–11-1818, Lavina Ann
                    (Luan) Hatfield who came to Clark Co., Ind., from Va. with parents 1816, b.c. 1798, Va., d.c. 1863,
                    New 
                        Albany
                    , buried Fairview Cem., sister of John B. Hatfield; children: a, John L., b, Samuel,
                    Jr., c, Mary A., d, William Kelber, e, said to be a daughter perhaps named Martha, who d. no heirs.
            II. 1 John L. Shipman, s. of I, 1; b. 11–20-1825, New 
                        Albany
                    , Ind.; d. 1–27-1870, New 
                        Albany
                    , buried Fairview Cem.; pattern-maker for machinery for many of steamboats on 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                    , particularly for that of the well-known "Robert E. Lee" which won
                    the race; m. 1–1-1850, New 
                        Albany
                    , Lucinda Evelyn Graham, b. 5–27-1827, near New 
                        Albany
                    , d. 4–25-1898, New 
                        Albany
                    , buried Fairview; children: a, Samuel Charles, b, Anna Vesta, c, Durett F., d, Edward
                    Walter, e, Charles, f, Cassius C, g, James David, h, Harry. For all their descent see
                    "Graham Genealogy," in Indiana Magazine of History (
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, 1905- ), XXXIX (1943), 210–220. See also Bible records on
                    microfilm in the William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana. This is the author's direct line.
            2 Samuel Shipman, Jr., s. of I, 1; b.c. 1827/8, New 
                        Albany
                    , Ind.; r. 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Ind.; d.c. 1889, buried Walnut Hill Cem., 
                        Jeffersonville
                    ; m. before 1853, Clarrissa Lovell (or Lovelace?), d. 1906, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; children: a, Anne, b, Emma, 
                  
                     ⋆ Mrs. Sylvan L. Mouser nee Evelyn Mae Shipman is a
                            resident of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, All material given is from documentary proofs such as Bible records,
                            cemetery records, state, and county records.
               
                     c, Will, d, Mary, e, Sally, f, George, g, Ella, h, Charles, i,
                    Harry, j, Dam
            3 Mary A. Shipman, dau. of I, 1; b. New 
                        Albany
                    , Ind., 1832: r. New 
                  Albany, Little Rock
               , Ark., Moravia, N.Y.; d. Moravia, buried
                    there; m. 1st John W. Harmonson before 1850, New 
                        Albany
                    , d. c. 1860, 
                        Little Rock
                    ; children: a, Florence Luella, b, Anna Elizabeth, c, William W., d, Minnie A.; m. 2nd
                    1862, Timothy T. Taylor, New 
                        Albany
                    , Ind., d. c. 1864; no chilldren; m. 3rd Moravia, N.Y., Hiram Ercanbrack, b. 1816, d.
                    1897; no children.
            4 William Kelber Shipman (called "Kelby"), s. of I, 1; b. 5–6-1841, New 
                        Albany
                    , Ind.; r. Normanda, Goldsmith, 
                        Tipton
                    , Rossville, Ind.; d. Rossville, 10–7-1913, Civil War veteran, gov't
                    marker; m. 1862, Mary Jane Lutz, b. 4–7-1843, d. 9–12-1905, dau. of Jacob G.
                    Lutz; children: a, Thomas, b, Carolina Eliza, c, Jacob Lorraine, d, Orville Evert, e, Ada May.
            5 May have been 5th child, Martha, who d. no heirs.
            III 1–8 Children of John L. Shipman and Lucinda Evelyn Graham, see "Graham
                    Genealogy," in Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIX, 210–220.
            9 Anna Shipman, dau. of II, 2; b. 1853; d. 7–16-1934; not married.
            10 Emma Shipman, dau. of II, 2; m. Harry 
                        Brown
                    ; children: a, Harry, Jr., b, Mattie.
            11 William Kelby Shipman, s. of II, 2; b. 2–14-1862, New 
                        Albany
                    , r. 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; d. 2–10-1943, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; m. Lida Katherine Spaulding, b. 11–4-1861, Jennings Co., Ind., d.
                    10–19-1943, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; children: a, Ethel Amelia, b, Edward Glen, c, Maud, d, Stella.
            12 Mary Shipman, dau. of II, 2; m. Homer Ball; children: a, Lula, b, Leila, c, Marcus, d, 
                        Granville
                    .
            13 Sally Shipman, dau. of II, 2; d. c. 1888, r. 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; m. Henry Adams; children: a, Clara.
            14 George Shipman, s. of II, 2; r. 
                        Louisville
                    , Ky.; d. there, buried Cave Hill Cem.; m. 1st Sally 
                        Brown
                    ; children: a, name unknown; m. 2nd Lillian Chandler, 1–8-1917, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; no children.
            15 Ella Shipman, dau. of II, 2; m. Joe Freund; children: a, Lee.
            16 Charles Shipman, s. of II, 2; r. 
                        Fairland
                    , Ind.; d. c. 1945; m. 1st Emma Luebtan about 1892; children, a, Kelby; m. 2nd Flora
                    Belle Miller Johnson, 12–8-1895, widow of Frank Johnson; children: b, Charles Vern.
            17 Harry Shipman, s. of II, 2; d. young no childlren.
            18 Dan Shipman, s. of II, 2; b. c. 1875, d. 1900, no chilldren.
            19 Florence Luella Harmonson, dau. of II, 3; b. 1850, d. 1905 Moravia, N.Y.; m. 1st James E. Ogden,
                    Sr., New 
                        Albany
                    , Ind., b. 1848, d. 1928, buried New 
                        Albany
                    , Ind.; divorced after 1869; children: a, James E. Ogden, Jr.; m. 2nd before 1873,
                    Corydon L. Arnold, b. 1847, d. 1904 buried Moravia, N.Y.; chilldren: b. Nora E. Arnold.
            
            20 Anna Elizabeth Harmonson, dau. of II, 3; b. c. 1852/4; r. Grand Rapids, Mich.; d. c. 1918; m. John
                    Benedict, d. c. 1922; no children.
            21 William W. Harmonson, s. of II, 3; b. 1856; r. Moravia, N.Y.; d. 1927, buried there; m. Rosette
                    Holden, b. 1850, d. 1935; no children.
            22 Minnie A. Harmonson, dau. of II, 3; b. c. 1858/9; r. Niagara Palls, N. Y.; d. 1925 buried there;
                    m. 1st before 1885, Andy Eldredge; divorced; children: a, John Eldredge (who took name of Bills); m.
                    2nd 
                        Newton
                     Bills, d. 1931; no children.
            23 Thomas Shipman, s. of II, 4; b. 1866; r. 
                        Clinton
                     Co., Ind.; m. and divorced Lida Pence; no chilldren.
            24 Caroline Eliza Shipman, dau. of II, 4; b. 1869; r. 
                        Danville
                    , 111., and 
                        Covington
                    , Ind.; m. Simon Jacobs, 6–10-1889; children: a, Don.
            25 Jacob Lorraine Shipman, s. of II, 4; b. 7–26-1873; d. 7–25-1874.
            26 Orville Everet Shipman, s. of II, 4; b. 3–4-1876; r. Rossville, Ind.; m. Margaret Jane
                    Mohler of 
                        Delphi
                    , Ind.; children: a, Goldie Elizabeth, b, Artus 
                        Elwood
                    , c. Pauline, d, Paul.
            27 Ada May Shipman, dau. of II, 4; b. 4–18-1881; d. 1–22-1908; unmarried.
            IV 1 Harry 
                        Brown
                    , Jr., s. of III, 10; r. College Corner; children: a, Walter.
            2 Mattie 
                        Brown
                    , dau. of III, 10; d. infancy.
            3 Ethel Amelia Shipman, dau. of III, 11; b. 3–16-1895, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; r. 
                        Beech Grove
                    ; m. 5–31-1917, Everett Hunt, b. 3–25-1895, 
                        Richmond
                    , Ind., s. of Oliver Hunt (family history in hands of sister, Dorothy Hunt, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ); children: a, Mar-jorie, b, Loren.
            4 Edward Glen Shipman, s. of III, 11; b. 11–26-1895, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; r. 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; m. 7–5-1917, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Pearl Wil-kins, b. 11–8-1899, dau. of Charles O. Wilkins and Laura E.
                    Moore; children: a, Ethel May, b, Mary Katherine.
            5 Maud Shipman, dau. of III, 11; r. 
                        Duluth
                    , Minn.; m. c. 1920, Martin Haggardy, Sr., who d. at sister's home 
                        Chicago
                     July 1946, buried 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; children: a, Martin, Jr.
            6 Stella Shipman, dau. of III, 11; b. 5–28-1899; r. 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; m. 10–8-1917, Hugh M. Anderson; divorced May, 1944; no children.
            7 Lula Ball, dau. of III, 12; d. 
                        Madison
                    , Ind., buried there; m. ——?; children: a, Irene, b,
                    ——?, c, ——?
            8 Leila Ball, dau. of III, 12; r. 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Pa.; m. Carl Bates, Sr.; children: a, Carl, Jr., b, 
                        Granville
                    .
            9 Clara Adams, dau. of III, 13; b. c. 1888; r. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Oil Dale., Calif.; m. Walter Minnick; children: a, Helen, b, Dorothy, c, Arthur,
                    d, Viola.
            10 ——? child.of III, 14; d. infancy.
            11 Lee Freund, s. of III, 15; r. 
                        Louisville
                    , Ky.; m. Anna ——?; children: a, LaVerne.
            12 Kelby Shipman, s. of III, 16; d. infancy.
            
            13 Charles Vern Shipman, s. of III, 16; b. 11–23-1897; r. Fair-land, Ind.; m.
                    1–8-1918, Agnes McDonough; children: a, Joan Theressa.
            14 James E. Ogden, Jr.; s. of III, 19; b. 1869; r. Homer, N.Y.; m. Katherine M. Ammerman, b. 1870, d.
                    1928, buried Moravia, N.Y.; no children.
            15 Nora E. Arnold, dau. of III, 19; b. 1873; r. Moravia, N. Y.; m. Millwood Fitch; no children.
            16 John Eldredge Bills, s. of III, 22; nee Eldredge but took name of step-father Bills; b. c. 1885;
                    r. N. Y., and Fla.; m. Alice —? of 
                        Niagara Falls
                    , N.Y.; no children.
            17 Don Jacobs, s. of III, 24; r. near 
                        Covington
                    , Ind.
            18 Goldie Elizabeth Shipman, dau. of III, 26; b. c. 1903; r. 
                        Frankfort
                    , Ind.; m. Dr. O. N. Childress, D.D.S., 1927; no children.
            19 Artus 
                        Elwood
                     Shipman, s. of III, 26; b. 1906; r. 
                        Plainfield
                    , Ind.; m. 1st Delia Mae Miller; children: a, Linda Sue; m. 2nd Martha B. Vice, sister
                    of H. Paul and 
                        Geneva
                     Vice; no children.
            20 Pauline Shipman, dau. of III, 26; b. c. 1911; r. Rossville, Ind.; m. 1931 Maurice C. Peters;
                    children: a, Patricia Louise, b, Terry Joe, c, Kenneth Lee.
            21 Paul Shipman, s. of III, 26; b. c. 1914; r. Superior, Mont.
            V 1 Marjorie Hunt, dau. of IV, 3; b. 12–4-1918, r. 
                  Beech Grove, Indianapolis
               ; m.
                    3–16-1937, Leo Skillman; children: a, Sandra Lee, b, Deanna Joyce.
            2 Loren Hunt, s. of IV, 3; b. 4–15-1933; r. 
                        Beech Grove
                    .
            3 Ethel May Shipman, dau. of IV, 4; b. 4–26-1918, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; r. 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; m. 6–26-1936, Charles E. Burks, b. 11–4-1916; children: a,
                    Billy, b. Patricia Ann.
            4 Mary Katherine Shipman, dau. of IV, 4; b. 3–15-1921, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; m. 3–27-1943, Leland P. Lux, b. 1–30-1916; no children.
            5 Irene—?, dau. of IV, 7; m. Joe Alte.
            6 Helen Minnick, dau. of IV, 9; m. Dr. ——? and divorced; r. 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            7 Dorothy Minnick, dau. of IV, 9; m. and r. Oil Dale, Calif.
            8 Arthur Minnick, s. of IV, 9; m. and r. 
                        California
                    .
            9 Viola Minnick, dau. of IV, 9; r. 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            10 La Verne Freund, dau. of IV, 11; b. c. 1915, nun in Order of Sisters of Ursuline, 
                        Louisville
                    , Ky.
            11 Joan Theressa Shipman, dau. of IV, 13; b. 10–8-1927, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; r. 
                        Fairland
                    , Ind.
            12 Linda Sue Shipman, dau. of IV, 19; b. 1–19-1934; r. Plain-field, Ind.
            I 1 Sanda Lee Skillman, dau. of V, 1; b. 3–16-1939; r. 
                        Beech Grove
                    .
            2 Deanna Joyce Skillman, dau. of V, 1; b. 2–19-1942; r. 
                        Beech Grove
                    .
            3 Billy Burks, s. of V, 3; b. 9–17-1937; r. 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            
            4 Patricia Ann Burks, dau. of V, 3; b. 9–1-1946; r. 
                        Indianapolis
                    . (For the rest of the Shipman descendants of the fourth, fifth, and sixth generations
                    see "Graham Genealogy," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIX,
                    210–220.)
         
         
         
            Wanted–County Histories
            The Indiana University Library is attempting to add to its present holdings on Indiana History all of
                    the Indiana county histories and atlases that have been published. If any of the readers of the
                    Indiana Magazine of History have county histories or atlases which they desire to dispose of, please
                    write Miss Irene Ryan, Indiana University Library, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, giving the author and title of the volume and the price which they would
                    expect to receive. We are particularly interested in the following:
            
               Rollie A. Coil and Samuel Cleland, Complete survey and atlas of Noble County,
                            Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1914).
               
                  Atlas and Directory of Noble County, Indiana (Elmhurst, 
                            Illinois
                        , 1939).
               Weston A. Goodspeed, Counties of 
                                Whitley
                             and Noble, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1882).
               
                  Illustrated historical atlas of Noble County, Indiana (1874).
               Samuel E. Alvord, History of Noble County, Indiana (
                            Logansport
                        , Indiana, 1902).
               
                  History of 
                        Dearborn, Ohio
                      and 
                                Switzerland
                             Counties Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1885).
               
                  An Atlas of 
                                Switzerland
                             and 
                                Ohio
                             Counties, Indiana (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1883).
               Carl Anderson, The Wagons: A Story of 
                                Owen County
                            
                   (
                            Spencer
                        , Indiana, 1935).
               A. T. Andreas (comp.), 
                     
                                Parke County
                            , Indiana, Atlas Map (
                            Chicago
                        , 1874).
               John H. Beadle, History of 
                                Parke County
                            .
               
               Goodspeed Brothers & Co., History of 
                        Warrick, Spencer
                     , and
                            Perry Counties, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1885).
               Thomas J. De la Hunt, The Pageant of 
                                Perry County
                            , 1814–1916.
               
               Alice P. Stoops, The Pageant of 
                                Petersburg
                             and 
                                Pike
                             County (
                            Petersburg
                        , Indiana, 1916).
               George A. Ogle (comp.), Standard Atlas of 
                                Porter County
                            . Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1921).
               
                  Illustrated Historical Atlas of 
                                Porter County
                            , Indiana (
                            Valparaiso
                        , Indiana, 1876).
               Harry G. Cutler, History of 
                                Porter County
                            , Indiana (2 vols., 1912).
               
               Hubert M. Skinner, Complete History of 
                                Porter County
                            , Indiana (1878).
               
                  
                     
                                Posey County
                            , Indiana, Illustrated Atlas (
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana, 1900).
               William P. Leonard, History and Directory of 
                                Posey County
                            
                   (
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana, 1882).
               John C. Leffel, History of 
                                Posey County
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1913).
               William Hebert, Visit to the Colony of Harmony, in Indiana (
                            London
                        , 1825).
               F. A. Battey & Co., Counties of White and 
                                Pulaski
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1883).
               George A. Ogle & Co., Standard Atlas of 
                                Pulaski
                             County, Indiana.
               
               Jesse W. Weik, History of 
                                Putnam
                             County, Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1910).
               J. H. Beers & Co., Atlas of 
                                Putnam
                             County, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1879).
               
                  Biographical and Historical Record of 
                                Putnam
                             County Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1887).
               
                  
                     
                                Randolph County
                            , Indiana, Atlas (1874).
               John L. Smith and L. L. Driver, Past and Present of 
                                Randolph County
                            , Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1914).
               E. Tucker, History of 
                                Randolph County
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1882).
               O. W. Pegee, Atlas of 
                                Ripley
                             County, Indiana (
                            Versailles
                        , Indiana, 1900).
               Ed. C. Jerman, History and Directory of 
                                Ripley
                             County (
                            Versailles
                        , Indiana, 1888).
               B. N. Griffing, Atlas of 
                                Ripley
                             County, Indiana (1883).
               
                  
                     
                                Rush County
                            , Indiana Atlas and Directory (
                            Rushville
                        , Indiana, 1908).
               
                  Atlas of 
                                Rush County
                            , Indiana (1879).
               Mary M. Alexander and Capitola G. Dill (eds.), Sketches of 
                                Rush County
                            , Indiana (
                            Rushville
                        , Indiana, 1915).
               Brant & Fuller, History of 
                                Rush County
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1888).
               Caroline A. Clark, The History of the First Fifty Years of 
                                Carthage
                             and Vicinity (Liberty, Indiana, n.d.).
               A. L. Gary (ed.), Centennial History of 
                                Rush County
                            , Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1921).
               
                        A History of the Town of 
                        Carthage,
                                    Rush County
                     , Indiana.
                    
            
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
