
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 81, Issue 4, pages 309-413. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:81+issue:4+year:1985&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            "The Homes of Indiana": Albion Fellows Bacon and Housing Reform Legislation,
                    1907–1917
            
                    Robert G. Barrows
                    ∗
                
            During the midst of the General Assembly session of 1913, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News published a lengthy letter entitled "The Housing Bill." The
                    letter's author, Albion Fellows Bacon, began by enumerating several objections to a bill
                    under consideration in the legislature. Then, one by one, she proceeded to refute each of the
                    arguments that had been raised against the measure. The proposed legislation, she noted,
                    "does not mean that anything must be provided which decency does not demand. . . . Simply
                    light and air, water, drainage, provision for waste and a degree of privacy, without which decency
                    is difficult and home life is impossible." But it was not simply a matter of decency or of
                    starry-eyed humanitarianism. "Against the great cost [to] the state in caring for crime and
                    dependency," the bill represented "one of the few efforts made for prevention of
                    the evils whose cure costs the state so much."1
            
            The bill in question—"An act relative to the construction, alteration and
                    maintenance of tenement houses"—had passed the Senate and was bottled up in a
                    House committee when Bacon's letter, an effort to rouse public support, appeared in the News. On February 22 the 
                        Indianapolis
                     press advised that the bill had been reported to the full House for consideration, and
                    five days later the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star headlined an article "Mrs. Bacon Sees 
                  
                     ∗ Robert G. Barrows is an editor at the Indiana Historical
                            Bureau and assistant editor of the Journal of the Early Republic at
                            Indiana University-Purdue University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . The author wishes to thank the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Chamber of Commerce for access to the records of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Commercial Club (records the Chamber subsequently donated to the Indiana
                            Historical Society) and the Indiana Federation of Clubs for permission to use their
                            historical records on deposit in the Indiana State Library. The research for this article
                            was supported in part by a grant from the Penrose Fund of the American Philosophical
                            Society.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 14, 1913.
               
                     Success Crown Years of Labor for Better Housing
                    Statute." An editorial in the same issue recorded that the measure's passage was
                    "the successful outcome of a campaign of several years originating with Mrs. Albion Fellows
                    Bacon of 
                        Evansville
                     and carried on by her with patience and unremitting zeal in the face of many rebuffs
                    and discouragements."2
            
            The story of that campaign, which had its origins in 1907 and was to continue until 1917, weaves
                    together many threads of Indiana's history: progressive social reform, the women's
                    club movement, public health, legislative politics, the Social Gospel. It is, moreover, a story of
                    the impact of a single personality upon events. No one in the state had a better grasp of housing
                    than did Bacon. Edith Elmer Wood did not exaggerate when, writing at the end of the decade, she
                    observed that Indiana's housing legislation "has a certain human interest quality
                    because it is so truly the work of one woman."3
            
            Reform efforts of many kinds, proposed by reformers of many stripes, were an important part of the
                    public agenda during the Progressive era. "Never before," observe two historians
                    of the phenomenon, "had the people of the 
                        United States
                     engaged in so many diverse movements for the improvement of their political system,
                    economy, and communities." Their goals and remedies were varied (and sometimes
                    contradictory), but progressives "made the first comprehensive efforts to grapple with the
                    ills of a modern urban-industrial society" and to "intervene in economic and
                    social affairs in order to control natural forces and impose a measure of order upon
                        them."4
            
            Indiana was not immune to these initiatives. The seeds of progressive reform had been planted in the
                    state during the last decade of the nineteenth century when the General Assembly had
                    "created an important body of political reform measures, albeit of a relatively moderate
                    nature." Indeed, the closest student of Progressive era politics in Indiana argues that
                    although the state "shared in the reform wave that submerged America nationally in the
                    years 1900–16," the roots of those developments "lay deeper in time and
                    reflected . . . the distinct native context in which they grew." Although the impulse ebbed
                    during the earliest years of the twentieth century, the decade before World War I witnessed the
                    enactment of notable reform measures. 
                  
                     2 Indiana, Laws (1913), chapter 149; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 4, 27, 1913.
                  
                     3 Edith Elmer Wood, The Housing of the Unskilled Wage
                                Earner: America's Next Problem (
                                New York
                            , 19191, 85.
                  
                     4 Arthur S. Link and Richard L. McCormick, Progressivism (Arlington Heights, Ill., 1983), 2–3, 22.
               
                    
                    
                  ALBION FELLOWS BACON,
                            C. 1910
                  Courtesy Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, Indianapoli
               
                     These included bills to regulate trusts, railroads, and private
                    banks; a corrupt practices act; a public utilities commission; and a system of workmen's
                        compensation.5
            
            It is not surprising in an era of reform that housing conditions should have become a subject of
                    legislative concern. The "Housing Question" was a subject much discussed in the
                    late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, and an extensive literature on the topic was already
                    available by 1900. Of particular concern was housing for those variously described as the
                    "poor," the "working classes," or the "laboring
                        classes."6
            
            Housing reform in America had its genesis in 
                        New York City
                    , the subject being "forced upon the attention of the city" by the
                    "overcrowding incident to its being the initial port of entry for foreign
                        immigration."7 Agitation for some form of regulation began in the
                    1840s, and the nation's first tenement law was enacted for 
                        New York City
                     in 1867. Concern with this problem grew as urbanization continued apace during the last
                    third of the nineteenth century. While not every city had a tenement problem, "nearly all
                    had slums inherited from the free-wheeling expansion" of the era.8
                    Publication in 1890 of How the Other Half Lives, Jacob Riis's classic
                    examination of tenement life, further focused attention on deficiencies in urban housing. The late
                    nineteenth-century movement culminated with passage of the 
                        New York State
                     Tenement House Law of 1901. Similar legislation was enacted shortly thereafter in 
                        New Jersey
                     (1904), 
                        Connecticut
                     (1905), and 
                        Wisconsin
                     (1907).9
            
            The origin of a crusade for statewide housing reform in Indiana can be dated with some precision. In
                    October, 1907, the Indiana Conference of Charities and Correction met in 
                        Evansville
                    . One of the conference's participants was Albion Fellows 
                  
                     5 Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The
                                Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth, 1880–1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 95–97, 99, 110, 120–21; Richard John Del Vecchio,
                            "Indiana Politics during the Progressive Era, 1912–1916" (Ph.D.
                            dissertation, University of Notre Dame, 19731, 42–43; John D. Barnhart and Donald
                            F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), 11, 369; Jacob Piatt Dunn, Indiana and Indianans (5
                            vols., 
                                Chicago
                             and 
                                New York
                            , 19191, 11, 778–79.
                  
                     6 Robert C. Brooks, "A Bibliography of Municipal Problems and
                            City Conditions," Municipal Affairs, V (March, 1901), especially
                            99–107.
                  
                     7 Robert W. DeForest, "A Brief History of the Housing
                            Movement in America," Annals of the American Academy of Political and
                                Social Science, LI (January, 1914), 8.
                  
                     8 Roy Lubove, The Progressives and the Slums: Tenement
                                House Reform in 
                                    New York City
                                , 1890–1917 (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1962), 140.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 140–42, 248; DeForest, "A Brief
                            History," 10; Lawrence M. Friedman, Government and Slum Housing: A
                                Century of Frustration (
                                Chicago
                            , 1968), 36.
               
                     Bacon, a resident of the Pocket City.10
                    Born in 
                        Evansville
                     on April 8, 1865, a few weeks following her father's death, Bacon was reared
                    in her mother's family home in the nearby village of McCutchanville. Apparently a good
                    student—she wrote and illustrated poems while in her early teens and later was to exhibit
                    considerable flair at both written and oral expression—she hoped to attend an art
                    institute. Her mother could not afford the expense, however, so her formal education was limited to
                    a country school and to 
                        Evansville
                     High School, from which she graduated in 1883. In 1888, after several years service as
                    a private secretary, she married Hilary E. Bacon, an 
                        Evansville
                     merchant, and settled down to what a biographer has described as "the pleasant
                    existence of the middle-class housewife at the fin de
                        siècle."
               11 The union produced four children:
                    Margaret (1889), Albion Mary (1892), and twins Joy and Hilary (1901).
            While her second daughter was still a baby, Bacon was stricken with an illness that left her
                    virtually a semi-invalid for some eight years. As her strength returned, she began to take a renewed
                    interest in literature and art, but in little else. Only after her two oldest children contracted
                    scarlet fever, presumably from schoolmates, did she begin to examine the environment of her
                    community. She was profoundly shocked by what she discovered: "something was wrong, and I
                    wanted to take hold somewhere."12 Take hold she did, becoming a
                    "friendly visitor" for the city's associated charities and involving
                    herself in civic and charitable organizations. She became convinced that unsanitary housing was the
                    root cause of the social distress of which she was increasingly aware. When the Monday Night Club
                    (an organization of civic leaders interested in social service that she had helped launch)
                    established a housing committee, she became actively involved in the committee's work.13
            
            It is not surprising, then, that Bacon had agreed to deliver a paper at the 
                        Evansville
                     charities meeting describing "The Homes of the Poor" in her native
                        city.14 Indeed, in the months immediately preceding the conference she had
                    been active in an 
                  
                     10 The best short biographical treatment of Albion Fellows Bacon is
                            Roy Lubove's sketch in Edward T. James, ed., Notable American
                            Women (3 vols., 
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1971), I, 76–78. See also Lubove's "Albion
                            Fellows Bacon and the Awakening of a State," Midwest Reuiew
                            (19621, 63–72, and Bacon's autobiographical Beauty for
                                Ashes (
                                New York
                            , 1914), hereafter cited simply as Beauty.
                  
                     11 Lubove, "Albion Fellows Bacon and the Awakening of a
                            State," 64–65.
                  
                     12 Bacon, Beauty, 21, 28.
                  
                     13 Lubove, "Albion Fellows Bacon and the Awakening of a
                            State," 65–66.
                  
                     14 Albion Fellows Bacon, "The Homes of the Poor,"
                                Indiana Bulletin of Charities and Correction (June, 1908),
                            47–52.
               
                     effort to include tenement regulation in a building ordinance
                    being considered by the 
                        Evansville city
                     council. The proposed ordinance had been pigeonholed, however, and by the time of the
                    conference she had apparently become convinced that local action was not the most promising way to
                    proceed. Accordingly, she "took every opportunity to discuss the need of a state housing
                    law with leading members of the conference." Most of her conferees supported the idea and
                    Bacon's course was soon set: "I determined to get all the necessary information,
                    and the advice of housing experts, then to compile different housing laws, and find some
                    organization that would secure the passage of a state Iaw."15
            
            Bacon had already begun to assemble information regarding the "housing question"
                    during her work on the proposed 
                        Evansville
                     ordinance, and these efforts continued during the winter of 1907–1908. Then
                    in May of the latter year, she attended the National Conference of Charities and Correction in
                            
                  Richmond, Virginia
               , and participated in a roundtable discussion on housing. Here
                    she met several leaders prominent in national reform efforts and came away with many new ideas and a
                    list of housing materials to read. Here, too, she met C. S. Grout, director of the Charity
                    Organization Society in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Grout informed her that his organization was conducting a survey of housing conditions
                    in the capital city and that the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Commercial Club, which was assisting with the investigation, was "
                    ‘looking about for a suitable housing ordinance.’" He advised her to
                    " ‘get in touch with them and interest them in the movement for a state
                    law.’ "16
            
            Back in 
                        Evansville
                    , Bacon "rushed off letters hither and yon, for laws and books and
                    pamphlets." Two of her correspondents were Jacob Riis and Lawrence Veiller, the latter the
                    author of the 
                        New York
                     tenement law of 1901 and the nation's acknowledged expert in housing reform.
                    Both men provided useful advice, and in the early summer of 1908 Bacon set about drafting a state
                    tenement law. With the draft completed and subjected to scrutiny for correct legal form, she
                    double-checked the state statutes to make sure there was not already some obscure legislation on the
                    subject. Satisfied "that Indiana would have nothing to say if her tenements were built
                    fifty stories high, without a single window in one of them," she set about the task of
                    assembling proof that the bill she had drafted was in fact needed.17
            
            
               
                  15 Bacon, Beauty, 169–70.
               
                  16
                        Ibid., 170–71.
               
                  17
                        Ibid., 171–73.
            
            
            The remainder of Bacon's summer and early fall was taken up by an extensive correspondence.
                    First of all, she needed to obtain reliable information concerning housing conditions in cities
                    other than 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . To this end she sent a questionnaire to all the charities' secretaries in the
                    state. The replies convinced her that "all the large cities, most of the towns, and many of
                    the villages contained slums." Secondly, "realizing that housing reform was a new
                    thought in our state, and that the responsibility of the landlord was an unpopular as well as an
                    unfamiliar doctrine," she began a campaign of education. "The endless part of my
                    task," she later remembered, "was the per sonal letters that simply had to be
                    written. . . . Click, click, click, click, click, went the typewriter, from June [1908] till January
                    [1909], all day from morning till twilight, with stops only for household cares or for the
                        children."18
            
            In October Bacon attended her second Indiana Conference of Charities and Correction, held at 
                        South Bend
                    . Again she was on the program, this time with a paper discussing "The Housing
                    Problem of Indiana."19 She also took along her draft of a tenement
                    house bill, which the conference voted to approve. Equally important was the message conveyed by
                    Grout, who also attended the 
                        South Bend
                     meeting: " ‘The educational committee of the [
                        Indianapolis
                    ] Commercial Club invites you to meet them at luncheon, as you return home, to discuss
                    your housing bill.’ "20
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Commercial Club, forerunner of the city's Chamber of Commerce, was founded in
                    1890 for the purpose of promoting the "commercial and manufacturing interests and the
                    general welfare" of the city.21 The club's directors had been
                    an early target in Bacon's educational campaign and in her search for "some
                    organization that would secure the passage of a state law." She had written them early in
                    June, 1908, and her letter was referred to the club's committee on education. That body
                        
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 173–74, 180–81. Asked if some of the drudgery
                            of correspondence could not have been alleviated by a secretary, Bacon responded:
                            "In a city of our size? A mother and housekeeper doing so much public work that she
                            had to employ a secretary! That would have been a scandal, indeed, almost as bad as to have
                            an office!" Ibid., 181.
                  
                     19 Albion Fellows Bacon, "The Housing Problem in
                            Indiana," Charities and the Commons (later The
                                Survey), XXI (December 5, 1908), 376–83. This piece also appeared in the
                                Indiana Bulletin of Charities and Correction (June, 1909),
                            212–19.
                  
                     20 Bacon, Beauty, 184–85.
                  
                     21
                            Annual Report of the Commercial Club of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 . . . 1891 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1891); "Articles of Association" of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Commercial Club (copy in the pamphlet collection of the Indiana Division,
                            Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
               
                     spent the next few months surveying housing conditions in the
                    capital city and considering Bacon's proposed legislation. At a meeting of the committee in
                    late September two club members (one of whom was Grout) were requested "to secure what
                    information they could from Mrs. Albion Fellows Bacon, and, if they considered it advisable, to
                    invite her to be present at a meeting of the Educational Committee at some future date."
                    Two weeks later a five member subcommittee (again including Grout) was appointed "to
                    examine and report upon the draft for a bill entitled the ‘Housing Act,’ and
                    also to confer with Mrs. Albion Fellows Bacon, of 
                        Evansville
                    , on her visit to the city next week."22
            
            The fateful meeting took place on October 22, 1908. Grout had told Bacon privately that her letter to
                    the club "had won by being practical and business-like." Fearful of spoiling that
                    impression, she later remembered "checking myself in a description of the conditions of the
                    poor, for fear I should verge on sentiment." The luncheon and meeting lasted three hours,
                    and at the conclusion the committee expressed general satisfaction with the bill but asked if Bacon
                    would go over it, word by word, with a subcommittee. She readily agreed, and a second three-hour
                    meeting took place that evening. The subcommittee was chaired by Arthur W. Dunn (head of the
                    Department of History and Civics at Shortridge High School in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ) and included Grout, Dr. John N. Hurty (secretary of the State Board of Health), and
                    State Senator Linton A. Cox (R-
                        Marion County
                    ). Dunn's subsequent report noted that Bacon's draft was
                    "approved in all its general features" by the subcommittee and then
                    "recommended to the Board of Directors of the Commercial Club for their
                        endorsement."23 The club's board of directors approved the
                    subcommittee's report and went on record "as favoring a housing bill."24
            
            Bacon had succeeded in finding an organization to sponsor the bill, but to her surprise the
                    Commercial Club men insisted that she lead the legislative fight: "we will stand back of
                    you and do whatever you want done, but you will have to be the leader. . . . You will have to come
                    to the legislature." "I saw my 
                  
                     22 Meeting of June 16, 1908, Directors' Minutes, November,
                            1906-June, 1909, p. 287, 
                                Indianapolis
                             Commercial Club Collection (Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); meetings of July 1, September 30, October 12, 1908, Committee Reports, May,
                            1908-July 1909, pp. 23, 42, 46, ibid.
                  
                     23 Bacon, Beauty, 186–87; handwritten
                            report by Dunn dated October 26, 1908, Committee Reports, May, 1908-July, 1909, p. 52, 
                                Indianapolis
                             Commercial Club Collection.
                  
                     24 Meeting of November 17, 1908, Directors' Minutes,
                            November, 1906-June, 1909, pp. 330–31, 
                                Indianapolis
                             Commercial Club Collection.
               
                     self," she remembered, "with horror, a
                    married woman with a ‘career.’ I saw my family, whom I had never left except
                    for a few days, suffering for my care; . . . my husband, with a southern man's ideas of
                    such things, his indulgence already strained. I saw my friends, disgusted at such publicity. I saw
                    enemies, frowns,—brickbats!" She remonstrated that she had never seen a
                    legislature in action, did not know what to do, and wanted no honor for herself. The committee
                    members stood firm, however, and after a few moments reflection Bacon agreed to their request. She
                    "took the leap," she recalled, "with the desperate deliberation of a
                    suicide who jumps into the icy water."25
            
            The tenement bill (a more exact term than "housing bill," since it did not propose
                    to regulate all houses) was introduced in both chambers of the General Assembly on
                    January 13, 1909, and assigned to the health committee of each house.26 In 
                        Evansville
                     Bacon received the "dread summons" and hurried north by train,
                    fearful of "doing the wrong thing, that would wreck the whole business." A joint
                    meeting of the House and Senate health committees had been arranged for the evening of January 19,
                    and Bacon was the principal speaker. Though hardly a novice at public address by this time, her fear
                    of "doing the wrong thing" was not alleviated by the circumstances of this
                    legislative hearing: some in her audience were "haggard and sleepy from a late caucus of
                    the night before" while others came and went "with a slight confusion in the
                    room." She later wrote: "I had thought to speak with some of the fire that burned
                    within me, but my sentences seemed to me as if just taken out of an ice box."27 This self-assessment was clearly too modest. The next day a reporter from her hometown
                    described her presentation as "eloquent," and an 
                        Indianapolis
                     journalist noted that she "impressed the committee members as an advocate
                    thoroughly conversant with the tenement-house question in Indiana."28
            
            Bacon was followed by Dunn, who served as spokesman for a contingent from the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Commercial Club. Dr. Eugene Buehler, secretary of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Board of Health, also 
                  
                     25 Bacon, Beauty, 179, 188–90.
                  
                     26 The measure was designated House Bill 3 in the lower chamber and
                            Senate Bill 51 in the upper house. Although both bills received consideration in both
                            chambers, attention came to focus on the House measure and action on the Senate bill
                            eventually ceased.
                  
                     27 Bacon, Beauty, 192, 196–97.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Press, January 20, 1909; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 20, 1909.
               
                     testified, telling of the "futile attempts to compel
                    landlords to remedy evils in rooms and houses kept for lodging purposes." As the hearing
                    concluded, Bacon recalled, "every one woke up, and, to my surprise, the meeting ended in
                    enthusiasm, and we were given the assurance that both committees would report favourably on the
                        bill."29
            
            Two days later Bacon had an opportunity to sway more than just a legislative committee: she was
                    accorded the rare privilege of addressing a joint session of the General Assembly. Describing her
                    investigations of the homes of the poor, she "asked the Representatives if they would not
                    make these homes fit for human beings to live in." With the heartfelt environmental
                    determinism so common among Progressive era social reformers, she argued that "tenement
                    houses . . . produced disease and criminals and forced young girls into the streets because of the
                    fact that they could not entertain at home. These unfortunates were elbow companions with the
                    children of the members [of the General Assembly] and others in the same class of life."30
            
            While her address to the joint session insured that virtually every legislator had his
                    "consciousness raised on the issue of tenement reform, the less ceremonial lobbying efforts
                    engaged in by Bacon and her supporters probably had more telling effect. Before leaving 
                        Evansville
                     for the capital she had secured photographs of some of the Pocket City's worst
                    tenements, mounted them on cards, and added "sketches and suggestive titles" on
                    the margins. They made "a very striking set of posters," Bacon thought, and she
                    hung them on a line in the corridor of the State House.31 Her "entire
                    days were spent at the state house" buttonholing members, explaining the bill to them, and
                    showing her photographic display. When the legislators were busy, she talked with their wives. But
                    she took care, as she put it, "to avoid sentimentality, and to stick to the practical
                    issues, in a practical way, having ready all the business arguments in favour of the law.
                        "32
            
            
               
                  29
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, January 20, 1909; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, January 20, 1909; meeting of January 18, 1909, Committee Reports, May,
                        1908-July, 1909, p. 80, 
                            Indianapolis
                         Commercial Club Collection; Bacon, Beauty, 197.
               
                  30 Bacon, Beauty, 199–200; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, January 21, 1909; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, January 22, 1909.
               
                  31 Bacon, Beauty, 175–76. Her hometown
                        newspaper, with a mixture of pride and embarrassment, remarked that "Mrs. Bacon has
                        hung out 
                            Evansville
                        's ‘dirty wash on the line,’ " and observed
                        that "an interested crowd of statesmen and ‘just common people’
                        is always gathered" around the pictures. The article was headlined: "PICTURES
                        OF OUR BACK YARDS ADORN (?) STATE HOUSE WALLS." 
                            Evansville
                        
                        Press, January 22, 1909.
               
                  32 Bacon, Beauty, 201.
            
            
            
               DEATH KEEPS WATCH OVER THIS HOUSE
               
               Reproduced from Albion Fellows Bacon, "The Housing Problem in
                        Indiana," Chanties and the Commons, XXI (December 5, 1908), p.
                    376.
            
            Bacon used graphic pictures of slums as part of her effort to persuade the public and the legislature
                    of the need for housing legislation. The picutre above was part of a display prepared by Bacon for
                    the legislature and later an illustration for one of the many articles she published on housing
                    reform. The six pictures on the following pages are selections from among the photographs she used
                    in her autobiography, Beauty for Ashes (
                        New York
                    , 1914), following pages 72, 90, 100, 168, 280, 328. The captions for these seven
                    pictures are the ones used by Bacon.
            
            
               "CHEESE HILL" EVANSVILLE
               
               Notorious for vice, crime, murder. Torn down by city administration, 1914.
            
            
               WHAT IDEALS CAN THE CHILDREN HAVE WHO LIVE HERE?
            
            
            
               "COCAINE ALLEY"
               A breeding-place of vice. Negroes and whites herd together in filthy, crowded
                    dens.
            
            
               THE UNANNEXED SUBURB
               
               Filth, disease, vice, degradation unspeakable exist here, beyond reach of the
                        city's laws.
            
            
            
               WHERE THE WHITE DEATH THROTTLES ITS VICTIMS
               
            
            
               DAY SHIFTS AND NIGHT SHIFTS USED THE SAME BED
               
            
            
            Although Bacon possessed the technical expertise to explain the complex bill and was quickly
                    understood to be an "ambassador of the poor" with no personal stake in the
                    tenement bill, she had no background in legislative maneuvering. She needed help, she knew it, and
                    she freely acknowledged such assistance in her memoirs. Besides the sponsors of the bill, Republican
                    Ezra Mattingly in the Senate and Democrat Homer L. McGinnis in the House, she leaned heavily on the
                    abilities and encouragement of Senator Cox, Representative J. Delbert Foor (D-
                        Vigo County
                    ), and their wives. Foor, a physician, and Cox were on the health committees of their
                    respective chambers and supported the bill both in committee and on the floor. Republican Senator
                    William R. Wood, who was president pro tem in 1909, and Representative Jesse Eschbach, Republican
                    minority leader in the House, were both recruited to the cause.33
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Commercial Club, of course, worked energetically for passage. In early March the
                    club's legislative committee reported to the directors that "the active interest
                    we have been taking in the . . . ‘Housing Bill’ is having effect."
                    Also working behind the scenes was the secretary of the State Board of Health, Dr. Hurty. Bacon had
                    originally contacted him during her letter writing campaign the previous summer (Hurty was also a
                    member of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Commercial Club), and the two continued to correspond as the legislative session
                    approached. Hurty was an old hand at dealing with the General Assembly (he had held his position
                    since 1896) and made a number of practical suggestions. In addition, he arranged to convey an
                    article by Bacon explaining the background and necessity of the proposed law to an agent of the
                    American Press Association, which distributed typeset copies to member newspapers throughout the
                    state. And during the Assembly session, when Hurty wrote letters detailing the measures
                    "bearing upon the public health and morals of the people ... in which the State Board of
                    Health is deeply interested," he never failed to mention the tenement bill.34
            
            
               
                  33
                        Ibid., 206–11. Throughout this article the political affiliations
                        and districts of legislators are drawn from: Rebecca A. Shepherd et al., eds.,
                            A Biographical Directory of the Indiana General Assembly (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1980, 1984).
               
                  34 Meeting of March 1, 1909, in Directors’ Minutes, November,
                        1906-June, 1909, 
                            Indianapolis
                         Commercial Club Collection; Hurty to Bacon, July 29, October 10, November 18, 21,
                        December 8, 24, 1908, January 9, 1909, Hurty to T. B. Pearson, January 30, 1909, Hurty to Dr.
                        Frederick Green, February 15, 1909, and Hurty to Eliza Wilson, February 18, 1909, all in Dr.
                        John Hurty Letter Books, Records of the State Board of Health (Archives Division, Indiana
                        Commission on Public Records, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ).
            
            
            Following the joint meeting of the House and Senate health committees and Bacon's address to
                    the joint session, the two bills began to wend their separate ways through the legislative process.
                    The Senate bill (S.B. 51), when taken up for final action, was amended to apply only to cities of
                    50,000 or more population. Senator 
                        Franklin
                     Kistler (D-Cass and 
                        Pulaski
                     counties), who offered the amendment, argued that smaller cities should not be asked to
                    meet the requirements of the statute. "He said that the matter was an experiment, and if
                    the larger cities wanted a law of the kind, he would help them get it, but he stood opposed to any
                    move to saddle the bill on the smaller cities of the State." Senators Cox and Mattingly
                    opposed the Kistler amendment, the latter arguing that the bill should be passed as it stood since
                    it was intended to protect "poor people all over the State who were forced to live in
                    tenement houses." The amendment was approved by a vote of 30–18, however, and
                    the bill then went on to final passage by a margin of 37–6.35
            
            In the lower chamber, H.B. 3 was read a second time on January 26 and brought up as a special order
                    of business on January 29. At this point several amendments were offered, and the bill, with all
                    pending amendments, was recommitted to the health committee. It surfaced again before the full House
                    on February 4, when it was considered section by section as amended in committee. The News reported that Bacon "trembled for the fate of her bill and flitted from
                    member to member, as opposition showed itself. As action advanced and section by section the
                    amendments were adopted unanimously, her spirits rose."36 On February 8
                    the committee report, with all pending amendments, was adopted and ordered engrossed, and one week
                    later the bill came up for final consideration. Representative Charles Gauss, a Democrat from 
                        Marion County
                    , made the only speech in opposition to the measure, reportedly arguing that
                    "if the people of the state kept on being ‘so nice’ they would cease
                    to live for lack of microbes to disturb them, an argument built up on the theory that a reasonable
                    number of fleas is good for a dog." A sufficient number of House members were apparently
                    "nice" enough since the bill was approved by a vote of 62–27.37
            
            
               
                  35
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Star, February 1, 1909; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, February 4, 1909;Indiana, Senate Journal (19091,
                        423–29. The Star, February 5, reported that the Kistler amendment
                        passed by a "rising vote" of 22–18; the News,
                        February 4, and the Senate Journal, 426, both give the count as
                        30–18. S. B. 51 was subsequently referred to the House, where it did not come out of
                        committee until February 26. No further action was taken on the Senate bill, however, as
                        attention shifted to H. B. 3, the companion measure introduced in the House.
               
                  36
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News. February 4. 1909.
               
                  37
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, February " 16, 1909; Indiana, House Journal
                        (19091, 361, 501–2.
            
            
            The House bill was introduced in the Senate the next day and the health committee quickly reported it
                    out with a "do pass" recommendation. Although passed by the House and endorsed by
                    the relevant Senate committee, passage was by no means assured: as time passed opposition became
                    more organized. Hurty had commented in a letter written at the end of January that "this
                    good bill has met with rough sledding, and I do not know why, unless it is because some interests are opposed to it." An 
                        Evansville
                     reporter put the case more baldly: "A real estate and landlord's
                    lobby has fought the bill from the start."38
            
            Bacon quickly discovered the same thing. She had gone home during a brief lull in the proceedings and
                    upon returning to the capital "found that enemies had been busy. Letters had been pouring
                    in, and a horde of landlords had come in my absence . . . stirring up opposition and sowing
                    doubts." She later recounted, without naming names, that some of the strongest opposition
                    to the bill "came from men, in both houses, who owned tenements, or whose brothers, cousins
                    or clients owned them." Many of the opponents, she noted, "did not even plead the
                    common cause of landlords. It was, ‘My house.’
                    ‘It will cost me.’ " There was also opposition from
                    some concerned with the specter of government "paternalism" and from
                    "little towns, that were not willing to yield even so much space on their building lots as 
                        New York City
                     gives!"39
            
            At this crucial juncture the bill received "lobbying" assistance from an unexpected
                    source—William Jennings Bryan. The "Great Commoner" visited 
                        Indianapolis
                     on February 26, and it was arranged that he should address the legislature. Seizing the
                    opportunity, Bacon wrangled a brief interview with Bryan, briefly presented the situation, and asked
                    if housing reform could be included among the topics of his speech. Bryan's reply was
                    noncommittal, but in the course of his address to a joint session of the General Assembly he indeed
                    found time to "call attention to laws that are being made necessary for the better homes of
                    the poor."40
            
            The day following Bryan's address the Senate took up H.B. 3 for final consideration. This
                    turned out to be a virtual replay of Senate action on S.B. 51 three weeks earlier. Senator Kistler
                    began the proceedings by moving an amendment that would make the bill applicable only in cities with
                    a population of 59,000 
                  
                     38 Hurty to T. B. Pearson, January 30, 1909, Hurty Letter Books; 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Press, February 5, 1909.
                  
                     39 Bacon, Beauty, 213–14,
                            216–18.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 219–22; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 27, 1909.
               
                     or more (that is, 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Evansville
                    ). Mattingly once again objected, arguing that "the small cities and towns are
                    just as filthy and congested" as the state's two largest cities. But Senator Edgar
                    Kling (R-Howard and Miami counties), referring to the bill as an experiment, suggested that the
                    scope of the measure could be expanded during the next legislative session if such action then
                    seemed warranted. In the end the Kistler amendment passed 29–13.41
            
            Then, in a bit of legislative sleight of hand, Democratic Senator Samuel Royse of Clay and Vigo
                    counties moved to amend the House bill by deleting everything after the first
                    section and substituting the language of S.B. 51 as it had passed the Senate on February 4. This
                    maneuver was promptly accepted, and, so amended, the bill was ready for a final vote. The outcome
                    remained in doubt until the last moments. When the roll was called, there was a deadlock: 25 aye, 20
                    no, with 26 needed for a constitutional majority. Just as the doorkeepers were to be instructed to
                    locate absent members, Senator Robert Proctor (DElkhart) announced that, to expedite matters, he
                    would change his "no" to an "aye." Two days later the House
                    concurred in the Senate amendments, and on March 3 Governor Thomas R. Marshall signed the measure
                    into law.42
            
            In early February, when her proposed law was facing a raft of amendments in both houses of the
                    legislature, Bacon was heard to remark: "Better a half loaf than none." In 1909
                    that is precisely what she got. The law applied only to tenement, lodging, and apartment houses, not
                    to all residential dwellings; many minor, technical features of the original proposal were stricken
                    out; and enforcement of the law was left to local health boards instead of the State Board of
                    Health. Finally, and most disappointingly, the law affected only the state's two largest
                    cities. But it was a beginning—and the expectation was that a future General Assembly
                    would broaden the law's applicability.43
            
            
               
                  41 Indiana, Senate Journal (1909), 1391; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, February 27,1909.
               
                  42
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, February 28, 1909; Indiana, Senate Journal (1909),
                        1404; Indiana, House Journal (1909), 1206–17, 1299; Indiana, Laws (1909), chapter 47. Bacon and her supporters considered this bill a
                        nonpartisan measure and certainly worked both sides of the aisle in an effort to secure passage.
                        In the House the bill's support did come from both parties; of the 62
                        "aye" votes on final passage, 33 were cast by Democrats and 29 by Republicans.
                        Of the 27 representatives voting "no," however, 21 were Democrats. In the
                        Senate the division was sharply along party lines: 24 Republicans and 2 Democrats voted in favor
                        on the final roll call, while 19 Democrats and 1 Republican voted against the measure. For the
                        roll calls, see Indiana, House Journal (19091, 502, and Indiana, Senate Journal (1909), 1404.
               
                  43
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, February 4, 1909.
            
            
            Upon her return to 
                        Evansville
                    , Bacon spent some time over the spring and summer of 1909 working to create the office
                    of building inspector in her home town. She and her family also suffered from the shock and sorrow
                    occasioned by the sudden death of her eldest daughter; for some months thereafter she was too grief
                    stricken to continue with outside activities. But as winter gave way to spring she "began
                    to feel a craving for work, employment, something to force my mind to new channels." At
                    first this need was met by work with various charitable organizations in 
                        Evansville
                    . Housing reform was never far from her mind, however, and she soon found herself faced
                    with "a challenge to all my powers" as the 1909 law came under attack from various
                        quarters.44
            
            The measure's constitutionality had been questioned almost immediately. A test case filed in 
                        Marion County
                     concerned a "very handsome" 
                        Indianapolis
                     flat "that failed to conform to the law in some slight particular."
                    The case dragged on for some time, but eventually the legality of the statute was upheld. A
                    potentially more serious challenge came from various real estate men and architects in 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     who had discovered the implications of the tenement law. As early as July, 1909, they
                    had approached the Civic Improvement Commission (an arm of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Commercial Club) with their concerns, and that body had appointed a tenement house
                    committee "to investigate the merits of this law in all particulars."45
            
            The committee pursued its investigations over the course of the next year, culminating with a meeting
                    of the full Civic Improvement Commission in June, 1910. W. K. Eldridge, an architect and member of
                    the tenement house committee, read a lengthy paper criticizing the law. He was at pains to point out
                    that he was not "attacking the principle upon which [the tenement law] is founded or the
                    motives of those who framed it." Indeed, he maintained that reputable architects, property
                    owners, and real estate dealers "feel in hearty sympathy with the objects and aims of the
                    law, and would aid in its enforcement if properly drawn." Following
                    Eldridge's presentation the commission moved to appoint a committee (in effect, to
                    reappoint the tenement house committee) "for the purpose of studying the law 
                  
                     44 Bacon, Beauty, 230–39.
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., 231–32; State, ex rel., v. Winterrowd (174 Ind. 592); meeting of July 7, 1909, Committee Reports,
                            July, 1909-January, 1913, p. 29, 
                                Indianapolis
                             Commercial Club Collection.
               
                     with a view to protecting it in all its features which
                    eventually would be regarded as right."46
            
            Bacon, who was no doubt kept apprised of these developments by her friends in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , naturally felt that the 1909 law was properly drawn and that any changes should be for
                    the purpose of broadening and strengthening the measure. Thus, she thought "the authors of
                    the proposed bill should have demonstrated to them just what the effect of every change would
                    be." She concluded that "there was no one in the 
                        United States
                     who could do that with such authority and conclusiveness as could Mr. Lawrence
                        Veiller."47
            
            Veiller, as noted above, had authored the 
                        New York State
                     Tenement House Law of 1901; he was also instrumental in founding the National Housing
                    Association and had years of experience shepherding legislation through the 
                        New York
                     Assembly. He had just published two important books on housing reform when he responded
                    to Bacon's plea for assistance. Veiller arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in early September, 1910, and, as Bacon put it, the Commercial Club "decreed a
                    banquet, in Mr. Veiller's honour, and mine," to which were invited both the
                    friends of housing reform and "the framers of the proposed dangerous bill, so that we might
                    cement our purposes with patés and coffee, and friendly discussion."48
            
            The banquet was an impressive affair. The entire membership of the Civic Improvement Commission was
                    present, as well as eight of the Commercial Club's directors. Among the many guests were
                    veterans of the 1909 campaign (Cox, Hurty, Grout); the 
                        Indianapolis
                     building inspector, Thomas Winterrowd; the secretary of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Board of Health, Dr. C. S. Woods; and several architects, including Eldridge. Following
                    a brief talk by Bacon, in which she summarized the struggle for the 1909 law, Veiller made the
                    principal address and discussed the "symptoms, causes, and remedies" of bad
                    housing. Then Eldridge and another architect "set forth what they termed the defects in the
                    present law, showing where in their opinion the law should be strengthened." At
                    Veiller's suggestion a committee of five was appointed (Cox, Grout, Eldridge, Winterrowd,
                    Thomas A. White) to meet with him and Bacon the next day "to discuss 
                  
                     46 Meeting of June 2, 1910, Committee Reports, July, 1909-January,
                            1913, p. 42 and attachment, 
                                Indianapolis
                             Commercial Club Collection.
                  
                     47 Bacon, Beauty, 239–40.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., 240. The two books Veiller had just published were A
                                Model Tenement House Law (
                                New York
                            , 1910) and Housing Reform: A Hand-Book for Practical Use in
                                American Cities (
                                New York
                            , 1910).
               
                     the law fully and make suggestions for changes that will be for
                    the betterment of all." The meeting adjourned following a "rising vote of
                    thanks" to Bacon and Veiller.49
            
            Bacon described the following day's meeting, attended by several architects and builders as
                    well as herself, Veiller, and the tenement house committee, as an "extended
                    session" at which the participants "mowed, reaped, shocked, threshed, ground,
                    sifted, baked, masticated and digested every grain of the proposed bill." At the conclusion
                    of the discussion Veiller "gathered up the views of the company, and took them back to 
                        New York
                    , to reduce the chaos to order."50
            
            There matters stood until early January, 1911, when Veiller returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     with the draft of a proposed new law. Cox, who chaired the Civic Improvement
                    Commission's tenement committee, called together all those who had an interest in the bill.
                    Those responding included lawyers, doctors, real estate men, bankers, charity workers, and
                    representatives of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and state architects' associations. The meetings lasted for several days as
                    Veiller patiently explained each section and drew diagrams to show what the results would be if
                    certain dimensions were changed or certain restrictions were modified. In a speech the next year
                    Bacon described the experience as "the most continuous and exhausting mental strain I ever
                    went through." At length, however, "no one could ask any more questions, and we
                    all shook hands and promised to work together for the bill we had agreed upon, and Mr. Veiller
                    returned to 
                        New York
                    ."51
            
            In 1911 Bacon returned to the General Assembly to fight for a new housing bill. Although she feared
                    "that it would give me the savour of a professional lobbyist, or a
                    ‘crank,’ " she could not resist the opportunity to try for her goal
                    of a statewide law. Moreover, those architects who had joined the movement for Hoosier housing
                    reform expected her to help "remedy the shortcomings of the law of 1909 which had been
                    caused by hasty amendments."52
            
            Although she hoped to have the bill introduced quickly, "some of the parties to it began to
                    haggle over little points," and 
                  
                     49 Meeting of September 12, 1910, Committee Reports, July,
                            1909-January, 1913, p. 44, 
                                Indianapolis
                             Commercial Club Collection.
                  
                     50 Bacon, Beauty, 241.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., 241–42; meeting of February 3, 1911, Committee Reports,
                            July, 1909-January, 1913, p. 51 and attached letter from Cox, 
                                Indianapolis
                             Commercial Club Collection; Albion Fellows Bacon, "Women, the
                            Legislature and the Homes of Indiana," Indiana Federation of Clubs Year Book (1911–1912), 136.
                  
                     52 Bacon, Beauty, 243.
               
                     the measure (H.B. 578) was not dropped into the hopper until
                    February 14.53 The late introduction of the proposed law, as well as its bulk
                    (at ninety-nine sections, the second longest bill introduced in the House that year), almost proved
                    to be its immediate undoing. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star reported on February 16 that the health committee, to which the bill had been
                    referred, recommended indefinite postponement since there was not enough time left to consider such
                    a complicated piece of legislation. Bacon and her supporters swung into action immediately; they
                    "convinced the committee members that there was no use shelving it because the time was
                    short, [and] saw to it that it was reported out." Reversing field literally overnight, the
                    committee reported the bill on February 17 with a "do pass" recommendation.54
            
            On February 22 the Star carried a letter that Cox had written and sent to every
                    member of the House of Representatives. In it he reviewed the history of the "pioneer
                    measure" of 1909, explained the objections that architects and builders had raised against
                    the law, and detailed the subsequent efforts that had been made to "reach an agreement upon
                    a bill that would remove all criticism and also preserve the benefits sought in such a
                    law." Passage of H.B. 578, he argued, would "clear up matters of confusion and . .
                    . [provide] as good a law from the standpoint of health and morals as the former law." Cox
                    closed with the hope that the bill might be approved "without any serious modifications of
                    any of the technical parts, which the official committee of the architects' association
                    says are well prepared."55
            
            Whether Cox's letter actually changed any votes is impossible to know, but it certainly
                    seems to have had an effect. The same morning that his missive was published in the Star the House
                    took up the bill under suspension of the rules, made one minor amendment, and passed the measure,
                    without debate, by the stunning vote of 82 to 2. Bacon later recorded that "it was all over
                    in five minutes, before I hardly realised what they were doing, and fairly took my breath."
                    The 
                        Indianapolis
                     press thought the achievement no less remarkable, one paper referring to the seeming
                    "insurmountable lot of difficulties" the bill faced and 
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., 245. Although Bacon does not name the "parties"
                            who caused the delay, Cox blamed "the committees of the architects'
                            association and . . . the building inspector of 
                                Indianapolis
                            ." Meeting of February 3, 1911, Committee Reports, July, 1909 January,
                            1913, p. 51 and attached letter from Cox, 
                                Indianapolis
                             Commercial Club Collection.
                  
                     54
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Journal-News, February 23, 1911; Indiana, House Journal
                            (1911), 1256.
                  
                     55
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 22, 1911.
               
                     calling its passage in the lower chamber a
                    "monument" to Bacon's "indefatigable work."56
            
            With such overwhelming support in the House it appeared, in the words of the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Journal-News, "fairly certain that it will go through the Senate with
                    flying colors." The bill was introduced in the upper house on February 24, referred to
                    committee, reported back favorably the next day, and read for a second time on February 27. Then, as
                    Bacon put it, the bill "stuck fast" in the face of "the same vicious
                    lobby . . . both inside and out of the legislature" that had opposed the measure two years
                        earlier.57 Over the course of the next week the bill was brought up for
                    third reading on several occasions, but each time opponents managed to have it postponed. The
                    staunchest foe of the bill was Senator Levi Harlan (D-
                        Marion County
                    ), who argued that the measure should be titled "a bill raising the rent of
                    poor people." "It was a bill also in the interest of contractors, he said, and
                    would drive capital out of the rental business, and prevent further investments along this
                        line."58 Senator Stephen Powers, a 
                        Steuben County
                     Democrat, also spoke against the bill and, in the words of a reporter, "rung
                    in the old-fashioned log house where he was born, and the old-fashioned log schoolhouse where he was
                        educated."59
            
            The bill was finally handed down for third reading on March 6, the last day of the session. The
                    proceedings are best described by Bacon herself: 
                        It was fought off till the night session. That night they could not withstand the pressure,
                            and it came to a vote. Two of our men were sick, one was absent, members who didn't
                            want to offend the party leader ran and hid in the cloak rooms. And yet the vote showed 26
                            to 17 in our favor. . . . We hurried our bill to the engrossing room, so as to have a copy
                            for the Governor to sign. The senators crowded around to congratulate me.
                            "I'm afraid to take your congratulations," I said, "till
                            the vote is announced." My fears were well grounded. Our enemies stood at the
                            Lieutenant Governor's elbow, and kept him from announcing the vote for an hour,
                            till they could scour the halls and cloak rooms, and get another vote.
                            Finally they got one man to change his vote, and our victory was stolen 
                        
                           56 Indiana, House Journal (1911),
                                    1385–86; Bacon, Beauty, 245–46; 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    News, February 22, 1911.
                        
                           57
                                    
                                        Evansville
                                    
                                    Journal-News, February 23, 1911; Indiana, Senate
                                        Journal (1911), 1395, 1424, 1468; Bacon, Beauty,
                                    246–47.
                        
                           58
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    News, March 7, 1911. An
                                    
                                        Evansville
                                     paper observed that "Senator Harlan, who led the opposition,
                                    rents, Mrs. Bacon is told, some of the worst tenements in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    ." 
                                        Evansville
                                    
                                    Journal-News, March 8, 1911.
                        
                           59
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    News, March 7, 1911. The reporter noted that "this school
                                    house has been pictured to the legislators many times."
                     
                             from us, the last hour of the last night of the
                            session. We asked for the roll, but they said the clerk had stolen the roll, too.60
                  
                    
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star headlined its story "Harlan Triumphs Over Frail Woman," and
                    an editorial in the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Journal News suggested that "Infloonces Were at Work." The
                    latter paper blamed the bill's defeat on "wealthy architects, wealthier apartment
                    house owners, monied people who go to Florida in the winter and Bar Harbor in the summer on the
                    fruits of $4-a-month rooms in decayed mansions on ash-covered streets .... The
                    Democrats," concluded Bacon's hometown paper, "had the power. And the
                    ‘infloonces’ had the ear of the Democrats." This may have been merely
                    partisan sniping, or support for a native daughter, but analysis of the vote supports the
                    contention. Of the 25 "aye" votes in the Senate, 19 were cast by Republicans; of
                    the 18 "no" votes, 17 were cast by Democrats.61
            
            For Bacon "there was nothing to do but to be game, nothing to say but ‘thank
                    you,’ and ‘good-bye."’ As she rode the train back to 
                        Evansville
                    , reading the Star's account of the previous night's
                    events, she "thought of the ultimate effect of this defeat upon the housing movement
                    throughout the state" and judged that it might "give just the touch of sympathy
                    and interest the cause needed."62 The newspapers had called passage of
                    the bill in the House a "monument" to her efforts. Upon that monument, she
                    reflected, the Senate had written: "Here lies the body of the Tenement Bill, slain March,
                    1911." She resolved to add a second line: "Awaiting the resurrection."63
            
            The biennium between the 1911 and 1913 sessions of the General Assembly was a period of intense
                    activity for Bacon. Her early efforts on behalf of housing reform had been principally (though never
                    exclusively) conducted by means of extensive correspondence. By 1911, however, she was an
                    experienced, polished public speaker with a growing regional, even national, reputation, and she was
                    much in demand for presentations before various conventions, conferences, and chautauquas. In the
                        
                  
                     60 Bacon, "Women, the Legislature and the Homes of
                            Indiana," 138. See also Bacon, Beauty, 254–56, and
                            Indiana, Senate Journal (1911), 1822–24. For a somewhat more
                            detailed discussion of the roll call proceedings, see the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star and the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, March 7, 1911. Both accounts indicate that the Senate's
                            Roll Clerk, one William Steelman, cooperated with Senator Harlan to prevent the original
                            vote from being announced promptly.
                  
                     61
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, March 7, 1911; 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Journal-News, March 7, 1911.
                  
                     62 Bacon, Beauty, 257–58.
                  
                     63 Bacon, "Women, the Legislature and the Homes of
                            Indiana," 138.
               
                     months after the bitter defeat of 1911 she used her speaking
                    engagements, as well as her membership in several voluntary associations, to advance the cause
                    closest to her heart. So successful was her campaign that when Bacon and her supporters returned to
                    the legislature in 1913 they "had the help of prominent men all over the state,. . . men of
                    all parties, and women of all beliefs."64
            
            Among the various organizations with which she became affiliated, the most important was perhaps the
                    Indiana Federation of Clubs (IFC). This statewide federation, comprised of women's clubs in
                    virtually every community, became very active in the housing reform movement. This support was
                    indicative of a national trend among many women's organizations during the early twentieth
                    century: a shift from an emphasis on "culture" to a greater concern for
                    "municipal housekeeping." One writer in 1913, observing the "yeoman
                    work" done by many state federations of women's clubs in civics, civil service,
                    and sanitation, reflected that "it seems incredible that any one can still be found who
                    thinks of this great force for public service as ‘Ladies Culture Clubs.’
                    " A few years earlier Ida Husted Harper, a leader in the movement for women's
                    suffrage, noted that a significant number of women had "found that home and children are
                    but the center of an ever-widening circumference which included the whole municipality";
                    giving women the vote was only logical and proper, she argued, since there was "scarcely a
                    locality in which the women are not becoming recognized public factors." Whether one views
                    these developments as merely a logical outgrowth of the Progressive era ethos, or as a conscious
                    effort by proto-feminists to "leave the confines of the home without abandoning domestic
                    values," or both, the fact remains that many women were calling on their sisters to
                    "learn to make of their cities great community homes for all people."65
            
            Bacon's first association with the IFC was in October, 1910, when she addressed their annual
                    convention on "The Housing 
                  
                     64 Bacon, Beauty, 300.
                  
                     65 Helen M. Winslow, "The Modern Club Woman: What
                            Women's Clubs Really Stand For," Delineator, LXXXI
                            (January, 1913), 57; Ida Husted Harper, "Woman's Broom in Municipal
                            Housekeeping," ibid., LXXIII (February, 1909), 213; Karen J.
                            Blair, The Clubwoman as Feminist: True Womanhood Redefined,
                                1868–1914 (
                                New York
                            , 19801, 3–4 (and see also Blair's excellent bibliography);
                            Mrs. T. J. Bowlker, "Woman's Home-Making Function Applied to the
                            Municipality," American City, VI (June, 1912), 863. A reporter
                            who attended the annual convention of the 
                                New York
                             Federation of Women's Clubs in 1911 subtitled his subsequent article:
                            "Startling Experience of a Man Who Thought She [the club woman] Devoted Herself to
                            Italian Art and Browning." Arthur Ruhl, "Discovering the Club
                            Woman," Collier's, XLVIII (December 9, 1911),
                            20–21.
               
                     Problem of Indiana."66 The
                    following June she journeyed to 
                        Winona
                     Lake to speak to a summer session, and there, she later recalled, "the
                    Federation opened its arms to me and took me in." Bacon had "never had time to be
                    a club woman, and this first close view of them was a revelation." She was impressed with
                    the group's dignity and "parliamentary precision," with the earnestness
                    of the members' deliberations and the absence of "small talk or chatter."
                    And when she told them "A Tale of the Tenements" the audience "sat hushed
                    for a moment" and then "rose and pledged support to the housing
                        movement."67
            
            The key meeting, however, was the IFC's annual convention held at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in October, 1911. In an address titled "Women, the Legislature and the Homes
                    of Indiana," Bacon told the story of the legislative defeat suffered the previous winter
                    and asked for the federation's support of future housing reform efforts. She suggested,
                    moreover, that the IFC adopt "The Homes of Indiana" as its slogan. The federation
                    members not only agreed to these requests, they went one step farther: they created a standing
                    housing committee and made Bacon its chairman. In her words: "It became my part,
                    thereafter, to explain the need and nature of housing reform to the clubs of the state. And so, up
                    and down, from the Ohio to the great lake I went, and back and forth across our state, telling the
                    story of ‘The Homes of Indiana.’ "68
            
            In the fall of 1911 Bacon also helped to form the Indiana Housing Association, the first such
                    state-level group in the country. Modeled after the National Housing Association (of which Bacon was
                    by this time a director), the state group's primary objective was: "To protect and
                    foster the Homes of Indiana by encouraging right housing conditions, and by helping to eliminate
                    those unfit, unsafe and unsanitary conditions which are a menace to morals, health, safety and
                    comfort." The principal officers were all veterans of the 1909 and 1911 legislative
                        campaigns.69
            
            
               
                  66 Indiana Federation of Clubs, program of the fourth annual convention,
                        October 25–27, 1910, Box 3, Indiana Federation of Clubs Papers (Indiana Division,
                        Indiana State Library). This talk was printed as a small pamphlet by the Charity Organization
                        Society of 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; a copy is in the pamphlet collection of the Indiana Division, Indiana State
                        Library.
               
                  67 Bacon, Beauty, 261–65. A copy of
                        "A Tale of the Tenements," published in 1912 by the Indiana Housing
                        Association, may be found in the pamphlet collection of the Indiana Division, Indiana State
                        Library.
               
                  68 Bacon, Beauty, 281–85; Indiana Federation
                        of Clubs Year Book (1911–1912), 133–41.
               
                  69 Bacon, Beauty, 294; "Here's to the
                        Homes of All Hoosierdom," Survey, XXVII (November 18, 1911), 1196;
                        Indiana Housing Association, "Constitution and By Laws," March, 1912, copy in
                        pamphlet collection, Indiana Division, Indiana State Library. The officers were Cox (president),
                        Grout (treasurer), and Bacon (secretary).
            
            
            Throughout 1912, from one end of the state to the other, Bacon carried the message, serving now not
                    just as a self-appointed spokeswoman but as a representative of the IFC and the Indiana Housing
                    Association. Since the goal remained a statewide law, her audiences were not just
                    in the major cities but also in "those quaint old sleepy towns in our state that are as
                    beautiful as bits of Arcady." She felt that it was "almost cruel to wound those
                    gentle hearts with the story I had to bring, but they wanted to know of life in the world outside .
                    . .[and] they had to know, so that their representative should be instructed how to vote
                    properly." Still, it was "a sad business ... to go about the state, thrusting
                    thorns into tender hearts. ‘No one can look at me without thinking of slums,’
                    [she] told them, ‘and I almost feel as if my name is Bill, from the constant references
                    to it.’ "70
            
            In 1909 the movement for a statewide housing law in Indiana had been little more than a somewhat
                    idiosyncratic, one-woman campaign. But by New Year's Day, 1913, a well-organized,
                    politically sophisticated coalition had emerged, and the various elements of that coalition stepped
                    up their activity in the days and weeks immediately preceding introduction of housing legislation
                    for the third time. The Indiana Housing Association, in conjunction with the state's
                    charity organizations, designated January 5 as "Housing Sunday." Charities
                    secretaries distributed a letter from Bacon "To the Pastors" asking that one
                    session of their church services that day be devoted to consideration of the condition of the poor
                    in their city. Enclosed with this letter was a four-part sermonette containing facts and arguments
                    for better housing, organized so that a pastor might substitute his own comments in place of any
                        part.71
            
            Dr. Hurty remained committed to the proposed legislation and threw the influence of the State Board
                    of Health behind it. At the board's quarterly meeting on January 10, he urged the members
                    to adopt a resolution "endorsing and supporting the Housing Bill." He noted that
                    he had "examined [the bill] carefully and believe it is all right in every
                    particular" and "certainly has a good deal to do with public health." The
                    board not only agreed to support the measure but ordered Hurty to "have printed a circular
                    concerning the housing problem, the same to be properly distributed in order to further the housing
                        bill."72
            
            
               
                  70 Bacon, Beauty, 270, 287.
               
                  71 Bacon, Beauty, 296–97; 
                            Evansville
                        
                        Journal-News, January 3, 5, 1913; Bacon "To the Pastors"
                        (draft), Folder 8, Box 1, Albion Fellows Bacon Papers (Willard Library, 
                            Evansville
                        ).
               
                  72 Minutes of the Executive Board, Records of the State Board of Health,
                        microfilm, reel 4, pp. 385, 394 (Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records). See
                        also Thirty-Second Annual Report of the State Board of Health . . . 1913 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1914), 42.
            
            
            Various voluntary associations also lined up behind the proposed law. The Domestic Science Club of 
                        Evansville
                    , for example, "composed of fifty women, who have made a careful study of
                    sanitation and home making," sent letters of support to their legislators. In 
                        Indianapolis
                     a mass meeting was called at the Propylaeum (headquarters for many women's
                    organizations in the capital city) to discuss the housing bill. Bacon, the principal speaker, showed
                    stereopticon views of blighted housing taken in several cities. She was joined by the dean of the
                    Indiana University School of Medicine, an assistant secretary of the State Board of Health, and the
                    presidents of the Indiana Housing Association (Cox), the Woman's Department Club, and the
                    Indiana Federation of Clubs.73
            
            Bacon also sought support from influential politicians outside the General Assembly. An important
                    ally was gained when Governor Samuel Ralston declared himself in favor of the tenement bill. Bacon
                    arranged an audience with the governor at which the probation officer of 
                        Lake County
                     described living conditions among the immigrant homes in her district. That evening,
                    addressing a meeting of the YMCA state executive committee called to discuss the
                    association's work among young men and boys, Ralston digressed from his prepared remarks
                    and spoke about young women as well. Alluding to the meeting with Bacon and her supporters, the
                    governor "expressed himself as emphatically in favor of changing housing conditions which
                    tend to retard the moral advancement of young women." Bacon observed that the effect of
                    this speech, "which was in all of the papers, was all we could have asked."74
            
            Among the state's major political leaders, there was only one whom Bacon had never
                    met—"Mr. Democracy," Thomas Taggart. When members of both parties
                    recommended that he be consulted, her husband arranged for a brief interview with the former
                    chairman of the Democratic national committee. She discovered, 
                  
                     73
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Journal-News, January 5, 1913; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, January 22, 24, 28, 1913. Organizations instrumental in calling the
                            meeting at the included, besides those mentioned above, the Charity Organization Society,
                            the Jewish Council of Women, the Children's Aid Association, the Equal Suffrage
                            Association of Indiana, the YWCA, and the Women's Christian Temperance Union. Note
                            that the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Commercial Club, so heavily involved in the housing reform struggles of 1909
                            and 1911, is not mentioned here. The Commercial Club transformed itself into the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Chamber of Commerce in 1912 and seems to have become somewhat less interested
                            in issues (especially when statewide) of this kind.
                  
                     74 Bacon, Beauty, 319–20; column headed
                            "Fairbanks Meets Y.M.C.A. Workers," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, January 25, 1913. The meeting was held in the home of Charles W.
                            Fairbanks.
               
                     to her surprise, that Taggart was well informed on the history
                    and provisions of the tenement law. One student of the era has described the Democratic boss as a
                    man whose "position on any particular issue, whether for or against a reform, was always a
                    matter of practical politics, not ideology," and his discussion with Bacon supports that
                    assessment. His only question when she used the phrase "we are asking for this
                    law," was "who are ‘we’?" Bacon enumerated the many
                    individuals and organizations supporting the bill, and Taggart promised to give what assistance he
                        could.75
            
            Senate Bill 118, a virtual replica of the 1911 proposal, was introduced on January 21 by Senator
                    Charles B. Clarke (D-
                        Marion County
                    ) and reported out of committee in just three days with a "do pass"
                        recommendation.76 Bacon later recalled that "there was really quite
                    a fight" when the bill came up for final consideration in the Senate on February 3,
                    "enough to rally all our friends to the defence, and call out all our artillery of
                    oratory." The press concurred: an 
                        Evansville
                     reporter called the debate "two hours of the hardest fighting of the
                    session," and an 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper described it as "a vigorous effort on the part of a hostile minority ...
                    to pull the teeth of the measure."77
            
            Opponents of the proposal pursued two lines of resistance. Senator 
                        Franklin
                     Kattman, a Democrat from 
                  Brazil, Clay County
               , moved to amend the bill so that the law
                    would apply only in those communities in which the common council enacted a similar ordinance. Such
                    a provision would, in effect, have permitted any city to veto the law within its corporate
                    boundaries. The proposal "raised a storm of debate," and eventually the motion
                    failed. Senator Kistler, whose home town was 
                        Logansport
                    , then proposed that the law not apply to those cities with a population of less than
                    20,000 at the preceding census. When that 
                  
                     75 Bacon, Beauty, 301–2; Del Vecchio,
                            "Indiana Politics during the Progressive Era," 145.
                  
                     76 Indiana, Senate Journal (1913), 117, 174. Clarke,
                            a newly-elected legislator, had decided to run for the General Assembly after hearing Bacon
                            appeal for support during a lay sermon she delivered in an 
                                Indianapolis
                             church. (Bacon, Beauty, 297–98.1 His wife, Grace
                            Julian Clarke, was the daughter of Indiana abolitionist George W. Julian and was herself an
                            influential lecturer and writer. Active in the women's suffrage movement, she and
                            Bacon had become acquainted through their involvement with the Indiana Federation of Clubs.
                            Grace Clarke was also active in the Indiana Housing Association. In a pleasant bit of
                            serendipity, the Indiana State Library's copy of Bacon's Beauty for Ashes used during the preparation of this article bears the hand
                            written inscription: "A present to Charles and me from Albion Fellows Bacon. G.J.C.
                            1914." The volume came to the State Library in 1938, an accession from Grace
                            Clarke's estate.
                  
                     77 Indiana, Senate Journal (1913), 117, 174, 483;
                            Bacon, Beauty, 307–8; 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Journal-News, February 3, 1913; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 4, 1913.
               
                     motion failed, he tried again with a figure of 19,100 and was
                    again defeated. Although he was obviously operating purely on the basis of local interest (
                        Logansport
                    's population at the 1910 census had been 19,050), Kistler appealed to
                    "party"—arguing that a cardinal tenet of Democracy (that is, the
                    Democratic party) was home rule. Clarke replied that the quality of his Democracy was as good as any
                    man's, "but that he believed in humanity as well and the slightest thought should
                    convince any man that tuberculosis can not be stamped out of the state if 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Evansville
                     [the only cities affected by the 1909 law] were to enact drastic tenement house laws
                    while 
                        Brazil
                     and 
                        Logansport
                     should be permitted to retain disease-breeding tenements." Republican Senator
                    Oscar Ratts, representing Lawrence, Martin, and Orange counties, supported Clarke by observing that
                    no "locality has the right to start a sore on humanity and let it run. This is a social
                    matter," he argued. "If it is good for one place it is good for
                        another."78
            
            Following defeat of the proposed amendments by Kattman and Kistler, several minor changes
                    "not affecting the general force or tenor of the bill" were adopted. One amendment
                    was accepted, however, that did substantially limit the scope of the bill. This was a
                    "grandfather clause" limiting the law to coverage of new
                    tenements but not buildings erected prior to the passage of the act. Following this compromise the
                    bill passed by a vote of 36–9. Bacon and her friends found themselves
                    "congratulating ourselves over a rousing victory—there, on that same old
                    ghost-haunted battle ground of other days!" But the battle was not yet over, and they still
                    "had to thread the mazes that led to the other House."79
            
            The bill was handed down in the lower chamber on February 4 and referred to committee. Two days
                    later, in a column entitled "Our Legislature as Seen by the Outstate Editors," the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News quoted the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier: "The housing bill, which has passed the senate, was an unlooked
                    for piece of 
                  
                     78 Indiana, Senate Journal (1913),
                            612–14; 
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, February 4, 1913; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 4, 1913. Kistler replied to Clarke by challenging the
                            assertion "that the tenements breed disease and degeneracy. Why, gentlem[e]n[,] it
                            is not true. Every one knows that if the rich were suddenly transported to the tenements and
                            the poor to the mansions of the rich, the mansions of the rich would soon look like
                            tenements and the tenements would soon resemble mansions." 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 4, 1913.
                  
                     79 Indiana, Senate Journal (1913),
                            615–18; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 4, 1913; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 4, 1913; Bacon, Beauty, 308. The 36
                            "aye" votes were cast by 28 Democrats, 7 Republicans, and 1 Progressive;
                            all 9 "no" votes were cast by Democrats.
               
                     progressivism. If the interests which it affects had seen it
                    coming they would have been exceedingly busy. As it is, the house will be literally beseiged [sic] not to pass it."80
            
            Bacon herself reflected something of a siege mentality as "news poured in ... from every
                    side of the doings of the opposition." She became especially fearful when the bill stuck in
                    the House committee. At the final hearing a large group of "well known and respected
                    business men" appeared with three typewritten pages of objections. At Bacon's
                    urging they agreed to a separate meeting with her and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     building inspector in an attempt to resolve the impasse. Most of the objections were
                    found to be "the result of misinterpretation, or misunderstanding of the effect of certain
                    provisions." In the end there were only three points of contention, and Bacon and her
                    allies considered these relatively minor. They "yielded cheerfully" and sent the
                    agreed upon amendments to the committee for inclusion.81
            
            But still the measure languished in committee. In an effort to get it reported out for consideration
                    by the full House, Bacon orchestrated one final, massive lobbying effort. On February 14 the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News carried her lengthy explanation and justification of the bill (referred to in
                    the opening paragraph above) in which she stressed that the state could not afford "to let
                    any class live amid conditions that breed disease that endangers the whole community." She
                    also called together her Indiana Federation of Clubs housing committee and other IFC leaders, and
                    they "arranged to send word to every corner of the state, that the time had come for their
                    help. How the letters and telegrams came pouring back . . .," she later recalled,
                    "to the members of the legislature; not only from the club women, but from prominent men
                    whom they had seen, in different communities."82
            
            The bill was finally reported out of committee on February 21, but in a manner which indicates that
                    the friends of the measure were no less averse to employing legislative sleight of hand than its
                    opponents had been two years earlier. The bill was advanced to third reading "after being
                    amended according to the recommendations of the committee . . . that several members of the
                    committee didn't know anything about." Four members of the thirteen-man committee
                    (all supporters of the bill) met early in the afternoon and decided to submit a report containing
                        
                  
                     80
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 6, 1913. The News identified the Courier as a Progressive organ.
                  
                     81 Bacon, Beauty, 310–14.
                  
                     82
                            Ibid., 319; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 14, 1913.
               
                     amendments in keeping with the agreement reached between Bacon
                    and those businessmen who had earlier opposed the bill. They then presented their report to the
                    committee chairman and convinced him to sign it and submit it as a unanimous recommendation. One of
                    the absent committee members, who had opposed the measure in 1911 and was "not friendly to
                    the present bill," was "astonished" when the report was issued. The
                    chairman argued, however, that the committee had already expended much effort on the bill, that
                    members were familiar with the proposed amendments, and that the bill had to be reported out to
                    afford ample time for its consideration on the floor.83
            
            In fact, when S.B. 118 was handed down for final reading on the afternoon of February 26, its
                    consideration took only minutes. Three minor amendments (one of which postponed the law's
                    effective date until July 1 in order to give those affected time to achieve compliance) were agreed
                    to by unanimous consent. When the bill came up for final vote it was "the first time in the
                    history of [the House that] a bill was put on its passage without explanation." One of the
                    representatives "facetiously called attention to the fact that the bill had not been
                    explained . . . but he added that it made no difference, as every one knew what it was."
                    Bacon "sat unnoticed in one of the side seats, her hands pressed so tightly together that
                    the knuckles whitened, her tense gaze fastened on each member as his name was called." When
                    the bill passed by the remarkable margin of 92–1, a reporter observed that "the
                    sweeping approval of the measure she has worked ... to place upon the statute books affected her
                    deeply." All that remained was Senate concurrence in the House amendments (which was
                    accomplished the following day) and signature by the governor.84
            
            Why did the housing bill succeed in 1913 after its humiliating (if underhanded) defeat two years
                    earlier? A principal explanation, 
                  
                     83 Indiana, House Journal (1913), 1268; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 22, 1913; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 22, 1913. The News reported that
                            "Thomas Taggart is credited with ‘building a fire’ under some
                            of the committee members contributing toward getting the bill out." On at least one
                            occasion during the 1913 session Taggart is reported to have "literally appeared on
                            the floor of the House to cajole the more reluctant members into endorsing necessary reform
                            measures." Del Vecchio, "Indiana Politics during the Progressive
                            Era," 145.
                  
                     84 Indiana, House Journal (1913), 1400–2; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 27, 1913; Bacon, Beauty,
                            322–23; Indiana, Senate Journal (19131, 1335; Indiana, Laws (1913), chapter 149. The overwhelming margin of support on the final
                            House vote is perhaps misleading. As a result of the Republican-Progressive split in 1912,
                            Democrats held a uniquely one-sided plurality in the 1913 session—95 of the 100
                            House seats. With both Democratic governor Ralston and Democratic kingpin Taggart supporting
                            the bill, at least some members' votes may have been cast more out of a spirit of
                            party regularity than personal (or constituent) conviction.
               
                     of course, is the spirited lobbying effort mounted by Bacon and
                    her coalition of supporters. But from a political point of view, 1913 was an especially propitious
                    time to advocate such a measure. By that year "a general climate of opinion which was
                    receptive to and even expectant of new reforms had settled over Indiana." The deep division
                    in Republican ranks between conservatives and progressives the previous year, and the subsequent
                    formation of a separate Progressive party, reflected the heightened reform spirit. In addition,
                    Hoosiers of all political faiths had noted the electoral gains made by the Socialists in 1912.
                    Indeed, Governor Marshall's valedictory message to the General Assembly in January, 1913,
                    called for progressive legislation as a bulwark against potential revolutionary change. Given this
                    backdrop, it is not surprising that Ralston, Taggart, and their lieutenants actively promoted
                    various reforms. The result, in the words of a contemporary observer, was "a body of reform
                    legislation that was most creditable to the State," including the housing bill.85
            
            Following a victory dinner at the Denison Hotel, with "flowers and felicitations, pleasant
                    words, and some sad ones," Bacon sped home. The 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Press, which interviewed her immediately upon her return, praised her efforts by
                    noting that "practically all of Mrs. Bacon's time during the last 12 years has
                    been given to visiting slums and tenement districts and she has lectured in nearly every city in the
                    state in the interest of the bill. She says," the paper reported, "she is glad to
                    be back home."86
            
            However glad Bacon might have been to be home again, it was obvious she could not remain there long.
                    By 1913 she had become a symbol of the housing reform movement as well as an expert in this field.
                    The success of the Indiana campaign only increased the request for her aid from various reform
                    groups. Barely a month after her return to 
                        Evansville
                    , in the course of a letter of appreciation to Governor Ralston for his support, she
                    noted that she had been asked to speak in several midwestern states and to provide advice on
                    securing statewide housing laws. She was pleased "that Indiana can lead, among these
                    states" in housing reform and wanted the governor to know that "other states are
                    looking to us for help and encouragement, in this matter." But was
                    Indiana in the lead? If so, could the state maintain 
                  
                     85 Del Vecchio, "Indiana Politics during the Progressive
                            Era," 199–202 (quotation on 200); Phillips, Indiana in
                                Transition, 110, 118; Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, 11,
                            778–79.
                  
                     86 Bacon, Beauty, 324–25; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, March 1, 1913; 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Press, March 4, 1913.
               
                     that position? Perhaps little noticed in the wake of her
                    triumph at the General Assembly, but not without significance, was a comment Bacon made casually
                    during her interview with the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Press: "The [1913] housing bill is just the first step."87
            
            For all the passion it aroused among both supporters and opponents the 1913 tenement house law was a
                    decidedly limited piece of legislation. Although it was a statewide law, it only applied to
                    incorporated cities; it did not affect small urban places that had not incorporated, suburban tracts
                    outside city corporation boundaries, or the rural areas in which a majority of the state's
                    residents still lived. In addition, it did not apply to all dwellings in the cities but only to
                    tenements—defined as the "home or residence of two or more families living
                    independently of each other . . . and having a common right in the halls, stairways, yard, cellar,
                    water-closets or privies . . . . Moreover, as noted above, the law covered only tenements
                    "hereafter erected" or extant buildings converted into multiple dwellings; it did
                    not apply to the many tenement houses already in existence. Finally, in a concession to localism,
                    the law was to be enforced by community building inspectors or boards of health; these officials
                    were not always well qualified and were certainly more susceptible to local pressure than inspectors
                    from the State Board of Health would have been.88
            
            Bacon was, of course, fully aware of the weaknesses in the 1913 law. She was also aware that those
                    who had opposed the tenement law through three successive General Assemblies were not likely
                    suddenly to disappear. In presenting the report of her housing committee at the IFC annual
                    convention in October, 1913, she thanked the assembled club women for their support but noted:
                    "We fought to win our victory—we must [now] fight to hold our ground."
                    Reminding her audience that "no law is automatic," she presaged future housing
                    reform activity when she asked the IFC membership to "Stand by me. Help me
                        still."89
            
            By this time her crowded schedule of traveling and lecturing was beginning to take its toll. In a
                    letter to Grace Julian Clarke in mid-1914 Bacon apologized to her friend for not writing 
                  
                     87 Bacon to Ralston, March 12, 1913, Folder 4, Box 91, Samuel M.
                            Ralston Papers, Governors' Papers (Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public
                            Records); 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Press, March 4, 1913.
                  
                     88 Indiana, Lams (1913), chapter 149.
                  
                     89 Indiana Federation of Clubs, Official Report of
                                Seventh Annual Convention (1913), 31.
               
                     sooner but noted that correspondence had been delayed because
                    "it was so hot it took the little breath I had left when I got home. ... I am getting over
                    a second spell, since my return, and just beginning to feel alive. I think I am going to take these
                    warnings, and go a little slow. In August I am to lecture in Bay View, [
                        Michigan
                     (?)] a series of three, and I dread the exertion."90
            
            Bacon's various other "exertions" on behalf of housing reform did not
                    stand in the way of preparations for the next session of the legislature. By December a plan of
                    action for the forthcoming General Assembly was fairly well determined, and in a remarkably detailed
                    and candid letter to Governor Ralston she set forth "a frank and complete statement of the
                    subject of proposed housing legislation." The Indiana "housers" had two
                    goals in 1915: "To take no backward step, and lower no standards"—that
                    is, to protect the 1913 tenement law from repeal or weakening amendments; and, "if
                    possible, to take a forward step" by securing even stronger legislation that would
                    "regulate the classes of dwellings that now defy the state, county, or local health boards
                    or building inspectors." Bacon and her colleagues in the Indiana Housing Association had
                    prepared two separate proposals: a "long bill" that would regulate all dwellings
                    as the 1913 law regulated tenements, and a "short bill" that focused specifically
                    on control of dwellings deemed "infected and uninhabitable." Depending on
                    legislative contingencies they would try "whichever seems best and wisest, and most hopeful
                    of passing." She concluded her letter to the governor by observing that she was
                    "willing to again make a great effort and sacrifice, in the interest of my state, for all
                    there is a hope of winning, but to do no rash or foolish thing."91
            
            The "long bill," which Bacon clearly preferred, would have virtually restated the
                    1913 tenement law and extended its coverage to every dwelling unit in the state. But she
                    acknowledged that "people will resent being dictated to about space on their
                    lots—the one vital essential, the keystone of the whole law," and conceded that
                    such a measure would be difficult to pass. Politically astute enough to attempt "no foolish
                    thing," she had decided 
                  
                     90 Bacon to Clarke, July 1, 1914, Grace Julian Clarke Papers (Indiana
                            Division, Indiana State Library).
                  
                     91 Bacon to Ralston, December 18, 1914 (with enclosures), Folder 4,
                            Box 91, Ralston Papers, Governors' Papers. The "long bill" was,
                            with a few minor changes, a copy of a model housing law just published by Veiller; the
                            "short bill" was essentially sections 112 and 113 of the model law.
                            Lawrence Veiller, A Model Housing Law (
                                New York
                            , 1914).
               
                     even before the General Assembly convened that passage of the
                    "long bill" was too ambitious a goal and that the "short bill,"
                    which would "prepare the way for a future step," was all that could be
                    realistically attempted.92
            
            In early January, 1915, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News reported that Bacon was in the capital to observe the legislative session and
                    that she hoped "a bill will be passed that will give the state board of health the same
                    power over ‘death traps’ as the fire marshal now has over fire
                    traps." Senate Bill 61, the "short bill," was introduced by Clarke on
                    January 18. A column in the Star headlined "BILL DOOMS GERM TRAP
                    BUILDINGS" summarized the bill's intent: "The measure seeks to confer on
                    the health authorities the same power over dwellings that might be [or would soon become] infested
                    with disease as the present [tenement] law gives the state department of inspection and local
                    building inspectors over structures that are improperly built from an architectural
                        standpoint."93
            
            While the "death trap" bill (as it came to be known) began to work its way through
                    the legislature, Bacon and her adherents found themselves struggling to avoid taking a
                    "backward step." As she had foretold, both in her address to the IFC the previous
                    fall and in her letter to the governor, the tenement house law now came under attack. The
                    "point man" in this effort was Representative Willard B. Van Horne, a Republican
                    from Lake and 
                        Newton
                     counties, who during the course of the Assembly session introduced several bills to
                    repeal or seriously weaken the 1913 law. Van Horne was clearly acting on the desires of some of his
                    more influential constituents; at a hearing on one of his bills the measure was supported by a 
                        Lake County
                     architect (who had apparently drafted the bill), the 
                        Hammond
                     building inspector, and the 
                        Lake County
                     Democratic chairman.94
            
            The "housers" fought back. Jacob H. Hilkene, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     building commissioner, expressed surprise at Van Horne's proposals and told an
                    interviewer that the law "certainly governs arrangements whereby the building and sanitary
                    conditions ... in this city are bettered and are such that they in comparison stand far above other
                    large cities in this country." 
                  
                     92 Bacon to Ralston, December 18, 26, 1914, Folder 4, Box 91, Ralston
                            Papers, Governors' Papers.
                  
                     93
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 8, 1915; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, January 19, 1915. For the full text of the measure, see the
                            manuscript copy of Senate Bill 61 (1915) in the Archives Division, Indiana Commission on
                            Public Records. Properly speaking, S.B. 61 was more of a public health measure than a true
                            housing law.
                  
                     94
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 17, 1915.
               
                     Bacon also testified against repealing or amending the tenement
                    law, as did Cox (still president of the Indiana Housing Association) and a spokesperson for the
                    Legislative Council of Indiana Women. The defenders carried the day: none of Van Horne's
                    bills was enacted.95
            
            The "death trap" bill was favorably reported by the Senate health committee on
                    January 21, read a second time the next day, and passed by the full Senate on January 27.96 The following day it was handed down in the lower chamber and referred to
                    committee, from whence it reappeared on February 10 with a "do pass"
                    recommendation. Then, no action was taken on the measure for a week. During this period an 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper carried a short "parable" written by Bacon, an obvious attempt
                    to gain support for the bill. In her story four men meet in an alley, each searching for the cause
                    of tuberculosis in his city. Each has a pet theory—dark rooms, the house fly, polluted
                    water and insufficient food, foul air and dampness—and in one particularly bad house each
                    man finds an example that supports his position. The landlord in the story naturally refuses to make
                    the needed improvements, observing that "There ain't no law to make me do
                        it."97
            
            As it happened, there was & ill no law at the conclusion of the legislative session; the
                    "death trap" bill came up for a final vote in the House on February 17 and was
                    defeated. Summarizing the debate, the Star reported that opposition revolved
                    around the "drastic powers" given health authorities to condemn unsanitary
                    residences. "It was argued that the bill, if applied literally, would take his home from
                    many a poor man." Understating the case the paper observed that Bacon "was an
                    interested spectator of the proceedings."98
            
            
               
                  95
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, January 22, 1915; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, February 17, 1915; Indiana, House Journal (1915), 157,
                        627, 783–84 (for H.B. go), 235, 475, 549, 906, 947–48 (for H.B. 172),
                        590–91, 940, 1191 (for H.B. 372).
               
                  96 Indiana, Senate Journal (1915), 141, 159, 210; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, January 27, 1915. Both the Senate Journal and the News report that the bill passed by a vote of 39–2; the Journal, however, actually lists the names of only 38 senators who voted in
                        the affirmative. The Senate was heavily Democratic that year (41 of 50 seats), and 33 of the
                        "aye" votes were cast by members of the majority party.
               
                  97 Albion Fellows Bacon, "There Ain't No Law!" 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana Daily Times, February 13, 1915.
               
                  98
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, February 18, 1915; Indiana, House Journal (1915), 280,
                        621, 742, 849. Both the Star and the Journal report that the
                        bill was defeated by a vote of 44–46. The Journal, however,
                        actually lists the names of 46 representatives who voted in the affirmative. Republican members
                        of the House were somewhat more favorable toward the bill than their Democratic colleagues, but
                        it was by no means a straight party-line vote. Twenty-three of the 39 Republicans (59 percent)
                        voted for the measure, while 22 of 60 Democrats (37 percent)
            
            
            Bacon was, of course, much more than just another interested spectator, and she was deeply disturbed
                    by the defeat of the bill. Although she had been extremely disappointed when the apparent victory
                    for the tenement law in 1911 had been turned to defeat by opponents' questionable tactics,
                    in 1915 her disappointment seemed, for the first time, tinged with bitterness. She had previously
                    been neutral (at least publicly) on the issue of women's suffrage, but an 
                        Evansville
                     newspaper reported that the 1915 defeat had made her "the latest recruit to
                    the ranks of the suffragists." " ‘If all men were like some
                    men,’ " she reportedly said, " ‘the indirect influence of
                    women would be enough and we would not need the ballot. But they are not.’"
                    Several months later she was still describing how the "death trap" bill had been
                    lost in "a general political upheaval."99
            
            Determined to see the matter through, Bacon resolved to try again. In the interim she remained active
                    in a variety of housing reform enterprises. She continued to chair the housing committee of the
                    Indiana Federation of Clubs, urging the state's club women to see that the 1913 tenement
                    law was enforced in their communities and to support passage of the "death trap"
                    legislation. Her involvement with the National Housing Association also continued, as did her busy
                    lecture schedule. In mid-May, 1916, for example, she made several presentations before a national
                    meeting of "housers" in the Hoosier capital (a meeting presided over by Veiller).
                    But in January, 1917, now as if by habit, Bacon and her supporters in Indiana were ready to
                    reintroduce the failed legislation of two years earlier.100
            
            After the enervating struggles of the previous four assemblies, the 1917 session proved to be almost
                    anticlimactic. House Bill 69, a virtual replica of the 1915 "death trap" measure,
                    was introduced by Representative Donald Jameson (a Republican from 
                        Marion County
                    ) on January 12 and referred to the Committee 
                  supported it. The lone Progressive voted "aye." In a letter to the
                            governor just days before the final vote, Bacon observed that Charles Bedwell (D-
                                Sullivan County
                            ), the speaker of the House, seemed opposed to the measure. Bedwell did not vote
                            on the bill's final consideration; what influence he may have exerted behind the
                            scenes is not known. Bacon to Ralston, February 13, 1915, Folder 4, Box 91, Ralston Papers,
                            Governors' Papers.
                  
                     99
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Press, February 18, 1915; Indiana Federation of Clubs, Official Report of Ninth Annual Convention (1915), 75.
                  
                     100 Indiana Federation of Clubs, Official Report of Ninth
                                Annual Convention (1915), 75–76; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 16, 1916 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, May 17, 1916. For examples of Bacon's speeches during this
                            period, see typescripts of her address before the Johnstown, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , Chamber of Commerce (February 14, 1916) and two talks to a meeting of
                            Indiana's local health officers (May 2–3, 1916). Folders 6, 42, 53, Box
                            1, Bacon Papers, Willard Library, 
                                Evansville
                            .
               
                     on Cities and Towns. The committee reported the bill and four
                    minor amendments on the 24th, recommending passage as amended, and the measure was read for a second
                    time on the 29th. On the morning the bill was scheduled for final consideration, members of the
                    House arrived to find letters on their desks from the Church Federation of 
                        Indianapolis
                     (a union of the city's Protestant churches) urging "hearty and
                    unqualified support" for the proposed law. Perhaps this letter swayed a few votes. Or
                    perhaps, as Bacon claimed in the aftermath, there had been "an awakening sense everywhere
                    of the need for better housing." In any event, in striking contrast to the divided House
                    vote of two years earlier, the lower chamber passed the bill by a unanimous vote of 90–0.
                    Even Bacon allowed that the margin of victory "was really a surprise."101
            
            The bill was introduced in the Senate the following day and a favorable committee report was
                    submitted within the week. The result in the upper chamber was just as convincing as in the House;
                    the bill passed without a single dissenting vote. Regrettably, although appropriately, since she
                    always claimed that her interest in housing reform was the most important thing in her life after her family, Bacon was not present for the final vote: she had returned to 
                        Evansville
                     for the birth of a grandson. When informed by her hometown paper that the measure had
                    passed, she expressed "relief and pleasure" that the decade-long campaign was over
                    and that the state's towns, villages, and rural communities "that had hitherto
                    been unprotected by any kind of housing law, might now be protected from the diseases arising from
                    unfit surroundings."102
            
            And so the long struggle was over, a struggle that had begun years before when Bacon had become
                    convinced "that nothing but a housing law would ever enable us to get relief from the
                    conditions that caused our poor so much misery."103 As the state and
                    nation prepared to embark on another crusade—the First World War—Indiana had
                    two housing statutes in place. The first, the 1913 tenement law, regulated the construction of
                    multi-family 
                  
                     101 Indiana, House Journal (1917), 89, 143, 185,
                            220–21; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 31, 1917; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 1, 1917.
                  
                     102 Indiana, Senate Journal (1917), 428, 532, 620,
                            781; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, and 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Press, February 16, 1917. The Star reported that the
                            bill passed by a vote of 40–0, while the News said
                            41–0. The Senate Journal records 43 affirmative votes, but
                            actually lists the names of 44 senators who voted "aye." The law was
                            promulgated as chapter 21 of Indiana, Laws (1917).
                  
                     103 Bacon, Beauty, 163.
               
                     dwellings; the second, the "death trap" law
                    of 1917, empowered the state's health officers to order corrective action when any dwelling
                    was deemed to be unfit for human habitation. It is necessary to bear in mind that these laws had no
                    claim to originality. While Bacon was clearly the key personality behind passage
                    of the Indiana legislation, the content of the statutes owed more to the models
                    prepared and propounded by Veiller. Yet enactment of the two measures stands as a major
                    accomplishment of Indiana's Progressive era social reformers and marks a signal advance in
                    the state's use of its police power.
            It is also important to keep in mind that these housing laws were by no means unique. As suggested
                    above, reform was "in the air" in the early twentieth century. Bacon and her
                    colleagues in the Indiana Housing Association were not sui generis either to or
                    within the Hoosier state. There was in these years a "yearning to purge society of what now
                    seemed its individualistic excesses" (in the case at hand read "irresponsible
                    landlords"), a yearning that led, in one form, to "a new interest in the social
                    and physical environment." The housing statutes, as well as other progressive laws adopted
                    during Marshall's and Ralston's administrations, reflect "the triumph for
                    a few years of the reform spirit which sought to make conditions better, and the recognition on the
                    part of the people and the politicians that the state had some further responsibility than it had
                    exercised in the past."104 As one student of the era has put it, none
                    "worked harder than the progressives to rationalize and organize what they saw as their
                    chaotic surroundings." For Bacon and other "housers," many of whom had
                    grown to adulthood in rural areas, nothing better exemplified this "chaos" than
                    inadequate, overcrowded housing.105
            
            If, as some have claimed, the "fundamental assumption" of Progressive era social
                    reformers was a "deeply held conviction that men and women were creatures of their
                    environment," then it is not hard to understand why housing reform had such a prominent
                    place on their agendas.106 But the crusade for restrictive legislation (such as
                    Indiana's laws) was not without its limitations. For one thing, it was difficult to sustain
                    the momentum. 
                  
                     104 Daniel T. Rodgers, "In Search of Progressivism,"
                            in Stanley I. Kutler and Stanley N. Katz, eds., The Promise of American
                                History: Progress and Prospects (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1982), 117, 125; Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 374.
                  
                     105 Rodgers, "In Search of Progressivism," 117. On
                            the background of many Progressive era reformers, see Wayne E. Fuller, "The Rural
                            Roots of the Progressive Leaders," Agricultural History, XLII
                            (January, 1968), 1–13.
                  
                     106 Link and McCormick, Progressivism, 68.
               
                     "Reform movements that are oriented toward the passage
                    of legislation," observes a close student of the subject, "measure enactment as
                    success. Some relaxation of passion is afterwards hard to avoid." Some reformers
                    "assumed that passing a law was equivalent to solving a problem and that government
                    officials could be entrusted to enforce the measure in a progressive spirit. This frequently was not
                    the case."107 This description does not apply to Bacon, who constantly
                    urged her audiences to see that the laws were used in their communities. But it is
                    also clear that Indiana's tenement and housing laws, while they may have ameliorated the
                    most extreme situations, did not eliminate bad housing conditions in the state—in short,
                    that they did not fulfill the expectations of many of their supporters.108
            
            Moreover, restrictive legislation could at best prevent or correct bad housing; it could not create
                    additional good housing. By the time Indiana's "death trap" statute was
                    passed the movement for restrictive codes based on Veiller's model laws had crested.
                    Increasingly thereafter the debate in housing reform circles revolved around what could and should
                    be done to provide decent housing for those most in need. But this was a step that
                    Indiana, at least the public sector, was not prepared to take on the eve of the 1920s. If the
                    Hoosier state's record of reform legislation during the Progressive era was, as one
                    historian claims, "a large and significant one," it is also true that the record
                    was accomplished in a political climate "compounded of nearly equal parts of conservatism
                    and cautious liberalism, neither dominant for long and each force acting as a check upon the
                        other."109 The demise of the Progressive party in 1916,
                    preoccupation with American involvement in World War I in 1917–1918, and struggle with a
                    variety of social and economic dislocations in the immediate postwar years marked the beginning of a
                    period of quiescence for the reform impulse in Indiana.
            Although 1917 marked the completion of her major work on behalf of "the homes of
                    Indiana," Bacon's interest in housing 
                  
                     107 Friedman, Government and Slum Housing, 44; Link
                            and McCormick, Progressiuism, 84.
                  
                     108 This should not be read as a sharply critical evaluation, but
                            merely as a recognition of many reformers' honest beliefs in a somewhat simplistic
                            environmental determinism and "the almost unlimited potentialities of science and
                            administration." As two historians of the Progressive era suggest: "Our
                            late twentieth-century skepticism of these wonders should not blinci us to the faith with
                            which the progressives embraced them and imbued them with what now seem magical properties.
                            .. . They missed some of their marks because they sought to do so much . . . [but] despite
                            all their shortcomings, they accomplished an enormous part of what they set out to
                            achieve." Link and McCormick, Progressiuism, 116–17.
                  
                     109 Phillips, Indiana in Transition, 128.
               
                     reform continued through the 1920s. She remained active in the
                    Indiana and national housing associations, writing a number of pamphlets for the national
                        organization.110 And she helped to create the 
                        Evansville City
                     Planning Commission, subsequently serving as its president for many years. Her
                    wide-ranging social concerns manifested themselves in other activities as well. In
                    1919–1920 she served as president of the Indiana Conference of Charities and Correction
                    (the group at whose 1907 meeting she first became committed to a state housing law). Always
                    interested in the well-being of children, she was involved in the Child Welfare Association, served
                    on a state commission that dealt with questions of school attendance and child labor, and headed the
                    Juvenile Advisory Commission of the State Probation Department for many years. Besides her tracts on
                    housing reform, her literary and artistic talents led to the publication of devotional articles and
                    books and the preparation of pageants for various public occasions. She died in her hometown in
                    1933, 
                        Evansville
                    's "best known and loved woman."111
            
            Writing two years after passage of the state's 1917 law, Edith Wood observed that
                    "housing reform in the 
                        United States
                     has produced three magnetic personalities." She identified this trio as Riis,
                    "who first made us care how the other half lived"; Veiller, "the high
                    priest of restrictive housing legislation"; and Bacon, "who won a housing law for
                    her state by sheer, disinterested persistence."112
            
            
               
                  110 See, for example, "Housing—Its Relation to Social
                        Work," National Housing Association Publications, No. 48 (June, 1918).
               
                  111
                        Notable American Women, I, 77; Lubove, "Albion Fellows Bacon and the
                        Awakening of a State," 71; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, October 7, 1919; 
                            Evansville
                        
                        Courier, December 11, 1933.
               
                  112 Wood, The Housing of the Unskilled Wage Earner,
                    287.
            
         
         
         
            Dick Powell: The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Years, 1926–1929
            
                    John L. Marsh
                    ∗
                
            He was neither a big he-man, nor a sophisticated male, nor a rough, tough lover whether on the screen
                    or off. To moviegoers of the 1930s, Dick Powell—with his dimpled face, boyish manner, and
                    piercing tenor voice—was the nice guy down the street, America's boyfriend. A
                    serious, ambitious, and sincere youngster, Powell embodied for his fans the American story: he was
                    the boy of obscure origins who began his great adventure with a pleasant voice, a smile, and little
                    else and who emerged by the mid-1930s as one of the most successful and popular stars on any of the
                    studio lots.1 Publicly at least, Powell deprecated his achievement; but to
                    friends and well-wishers in 
                        Indianapolis
                     it came as no surprise, for this "charming and lovable personality and
                    altogether grand sweetheart" was the creation of the live presentations—the
                    "flesh shows—that graced the stages of the 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and Circle theaters in the Hoosier capital.2
            
            Richard Ewing Powell was born in the north Arkansas farm town of Mountain View on November 14, 1904.
                    In 1909 the Powell family moved to Berryville, yet another rural Arkansas community, where Dick got
                    his first singmg "job." A railroad engineer visiting the family home asked young
                    Powell to sing "Casey Jones," for which Dick was paid a nickel. It was such
                    "easy money" that the boy hung about whenever he knew his father's 
                  
                     ∗ John L. Marsh is professor of English at Edinboro
                            University of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            .
                  
                     1 Film exhibitors numbered Dick Powell among the nation's ten
                            top box office stars in 1935 and 1936. In 1935 he was seventh; Claudette Colbert was sixth
                            and Wallace Beery, eighth. In 1936 Powell was sixth; Joe E. Brown was fifth, and Joan
                            Crawford, seventh. See Cobbett S. Steinberg, Film Facts (
                                New York
                            , 1980), 57.
                  
                     2 The encomium, attributed to Sonny Ray, 
                        Toronto, Canada
                     ,
                            is quoted from an article, "Pardoned," in Scrapbook No. 14, Dick Powell
                            Scrapbook Collection (University of California at 
                                Los Angeles
                             Library); cited hereafter as DPSC. Note that the scrapbooks are not
                        paged.
               
                    
                    
                  DICK POWELL (LEFT) AT AGE EIGHT IN BERRYVILLE, ARKANSAS. WITH HIM IS HIS YOUNGER BROTHER, LUTHER.
                  Courtesy John L. Marsh.
                friend was to return. Of course, he hoped the man would request his favorite song and
                    again give him five cents. The trainman regularly did as Powell had hoped until a labor dispute
                    soured his desire to hear "Casey Jones" and so lost Dick his first job.3
            
            Powell may have sung, as well, in a Berryville church choir. Without specifying which year, one
                    account, at any rate, records that he sang at Easter time because all of the boys who participated
                    were given free boxes of candy.4 No such treats were in the offing, however,
                    when Dick joined first one and then another choir in 
                        Little Rock
                    , the family home after 1916. Initially, he appeared with a Catholic children's
                    group, but after his voice 
                  
                     3 Howard Powell, the eldest of the three Powell brothers, reviewed an
                            earlier manuscript by the author and let this story stand; however, the report of the
                            incident, taken from a feature story in the 
                                Pittsburgh
                            
                            Press, September 14, 1936, may not be factually accurate.
                  
                     4 Unidentified clipping, Scrapbook No. 14, DPSC.
               
                     changed to "the loudest in the city," he sang
                    in the Baptist, Episcopal, and Presbyterian choirs. He sang, too, at the synagogue and at the
                    Masonic hall.5 In time, he was paid for his vocal prowess. The money may not
                    have been "easy," but it was "good": fifteen dollars from the
                    Presbyterians on Sunday, ten dollars from the synagogue on Friday, and another "ten
                    spot" from the Episcopalians on Wednesday.6
            
            Powell's youthful goal was to sing in grand opera, fancying himself someday as the
                    philandering Duke of Mantua in Rigoletto.7 His first
                    profession opportunity, however, found him singing "Serenade" from The Student Prince. As Powell recalled the incident, he was paid seventy dollars:
                    "Pretty soon, though, I found if I sang a hot popular number I could earn as much
                    elsewhere, so I went in for singing popular numbers."8 He did so as a
                    member of a five-man musical aggregation called "the Peter Pan." Organized in
                    1923, the group was led by Tommy Scott at the piano; Powell played the saxophone and clarinet.
                    Presumably, Dick sang when they played area dance engagements, but when they were accompanying
                    silent films in the pit of the New Theatre on Main Street, he very likely confined himself to one or
                    another of his instruments.
            Although in later years Powell told an interviewer that the group was as "terrible"
                    as its name, he and Scott exhibited sufficient talent to attract the attention of a small-time
                    agent, who booked them in 1923 as a two-man vaudeville act into small theaters on the outskirts of 
                        St. Louis
                    .9 It was a disastrous venture that Dick described with feeling
                    years afterward: "There was a winter in 
                        St. Louis
                     . . . that I almost starved. With a piano player as partner, I managed to get a few
                    bookings at the cheaper neighborhood theatres. I'd tell jokes, and sing. And oh, how
                    we'd flop! After that whole winter [1923–19241 of living in cheap boarding
                    houses on practically no money at all, I had made just enough to get myself back home
                        again."10
            
            
               
                  5 Dick Powell, "A Man's Will to His Son," in
                        Edward P. Morgan and R. Swing, eds., This I Believe (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1952–1954), I, 141–42.
               
                  6 The source of this information is a can-you-top-this conversation
                        between Powell and George Burns, which Dick's third wife recalled. See June Allyson
                        with Frances Spatz Leighton, June Allyson (
                            New York
                        , 1982), 103–104.
               
                  7 Grace L. Rosa, Mountain View, 
                            Arkansas
                        , to the author, November 24, 1981.
               
                  8 Quoted in Roy G. Swanfelt, "No Time for Love, Says Dick
                        Powell," newspaper interview, Scrapbook No. 16, DPSC.
               
                  9 Powell's estimate of the group was noted by Walter Ramsey in
                        Walter Ramsey, "The Private Life of a Crooner," Modern
                        Screen, 7 (February, 1934), 66. Not to be confused with Ramsey's "The
                        Private History of a Crooner," Modern Screen, 7 (January, 1934),
                        29–31, 106.
               
                  10 Linda Heath, "Why Dick Powell Wants Marriage," fan
                        magazine article, Scrapbook No. 4, DPSC.
            
            
            In 
                        Little Rock
                     once more, Dick reluctantly heeded the wishes of his parents and took a job with the
                    Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, taking orders for new phones during the day. His evenings were
                    devoted to singing with local church choirs and to appearing with "the Peter Pan."
                    And it was as a singer as well as a musician that he was recommended to the Royal Peacock Orchestra,
                    led by Myron Schulz of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The Peacocks had opened an engagement on December 27, 1924, at 
                        Little Rock
                    's popular Rainbow Gardens Ballroom, and Powell, with his attractive tenor
                    voice, was touted as a natural addition to their ranks.11 Unfortunately, they
                    could not afford him at the moment, and when the Peacocks left 
                        Little Rock
                    , they promised only that they would get in touch with him should their situation
                    change. Neither party realized it, of course, but that highly tentative commitment brought Powell
                    that much closer to 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Dick was doubtless heartened by the Peacock's interest in him, but he was otherwise
                    distracted at just about this time. While taking orders for phones, he met Mildred Maund from
                    Shreveport, 
                        Louisiana
                    , who was visiting her aunt in 
                        Little Rock
                     in the spring of 1925. A "gorgeous" girl with an olive complexion,
                    big brown eyes, and coal-black hair, she was to prove an "armload of calamity" on
                    the road to fame and fortune—though Powell could not appreciate the future on May 28,
                    1925, when he and Mildred, "Mid," ran off and were married in 
                  Benton, Arkansas
               .
                    Years afterward he told June Allyson, his third wife, that "it was a boyhood romance . . .
                    and I thought marriage was proof of my manhood. But it was never much of a marriage and we parted
                        friends."12
            
            Their parting "friends" is probably untrue since Powell, who took the initiative in
                    obtaining the divorce, charged Mid with cruelty, maintaining that she "got mad
                    frequently" and threw things at him.13 The divorce was granted in 
                        Little Rock
                     on December 1, 1932. By way of explaining his wife's anger, Dick told a writer
                    for a Hollywood fan magazine that he and Mid were incompatible—that she stood: between
                    him and his future: "She couldn't understand why I was not satisfied to work for
                    the phone company. ... I couldn't understand why she couldn't realize that I would
                    never be happy doing that. What I had to do was try to 
                  
                     11 Duncan P. Schiedt, The Jazz State of Indiana
                            (Pittsboro, Ind., 1977), 115.
                  
                     12 Quoted in Allyson, Allyson, 72.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Pittsburgh
                            
                            Post-Gazette, December 8, 1932.
               
                    
                    
                  DURING THE INDIANAPOLIS YEARS, C. 1926–1928
                  Courtesy Duncan Schledt, Pittsboro. Indiana
               
                     sing my way to whatever success I'd make. That was the
                    only thing that meant anything to me."14
            
            The chance to "sing his way to success" was embodied in a telegram from the
                    Peacocks dated August 12, 1925. The details of the "wonderful opportunity" it
                    promised were spelled out in the contract between "Richard" Powell and the Royal
                    Peacock Orchestra. This document called upon Dick to start with the band, August 31, 1925, at the
                    Hotel Kentucky in 
                        Louisville
                    , where the Peacocks were to play for concert and dinner dancing.15
                    Powell was ecstatic, not so Mid. Until she became Dick's wife, she had been petted,
                    admired, and rushed with more dates than there were evenings in the week. Now married to a road band
                    singer in 
                        Louisville
                    , she lived an existence of lonely nights in a hotel room with nothing more exciting to
                    look forward to than a visit to a movie theater or a circulating library.16
            
            H. Reagan Carey, then playing with the Connaughton orchestra from 
                        Indianapolis
                     at the Elks Club in 
                        Louisville
                    , had an apartment next to the Powells at the Hampton Arms and got to know the couple
                        well.17 According to Carey, Mid was never punctual and kept her husband
                    waiting for as much as an hour or two at a time, "which I'm sure was deliberate.
                    She teased him constantly about being a singer and not a businessman. Dick's popularity
                    with the guys and gals compelled her to belittle him."18 That Carey is
                    certainly correct in affirming Powell's popularity seems borne out by the number of dancers
                    who crowded the floor to catch a glimpse of his good looks and to bask in his "wholesome
                        personality."19 Unfortunately for Dick, dissension developed among
                    the Peacocks in the spring of 1926 at just about the time that they were concluding their engagement
                    at the Kentucky Hotel, leading various of the band's members to return to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to reorganize. Those remaining, Powell included, formed a
                    "partnership" band led by Dick 
                        Kent
                     and Lyst Reynolds.20
            
            
               
                  14 Kathryn White, "Dick Powell Tells ‘Why I'm
                        Afraid of Marriage,’ " feature story, Scrapbook No. 4, DPSC.
               
                  15 A copy of the contract is preserved in Scrapbook No. 8, DPSC. According
                        to its terms, Powell was to be paid seventy dollars per week for forty weeks. In return, he was
                        to furnish all his instruments and clothes and to become a member of the American Federation of
                        Musicians.
               
                  16 Ramsey, "Private Life," 94.
               
                  17 Schiedt calls Lawrence Connaughton, the orchestra's leader,
                        "one of the best-loved of all white band leaders in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ." Schiedt, Jazz State, 60.
               
                  18 H. Reagan Carey, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , to the author, October 11, 1981.
               
                  19 Howard 
                            Caldwell
                        , "Remember a Local Singer Named Dick Powell," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Magazine, 13 (February, 1976), 19.
               
                  20 Schiedt, Jazz State, 116–17.
            
            
            
               OHIO THEATRE, C. 1929
               Opened in November, 1919, it was a 1,500 seat house.
               Courtesy Theatre Historical Society, 
                            Chicago
                        
               
            
            
            In the summer of 1926, however, the 
                        Kent
                    -Reynolds group ran out of bookings and broke up in Anderson, Indiana. Recalling those
                    days for June Allyson, Powell said he was down to forty cents and living on one ten-cent hamburger a
                    day in Anderson. Then, on the fourth day, after he had eaten his last hamburger, he got a wire
                    offering him a job.21 Duncan Schiedt, writing in The Jazz State of
                        Indiana, notes that Powell owed his good fortune to Lawrence "Connie"
                    Connaughton, who led the band in which Carey played the saxophone. Connie had heard Powell sing at
                    the Kentucky Hotel in the winter of 1925–1926. Subsequently, at a weekend poker game in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Connaughton recommended him to Charlie Davis, whose orchestra was then appearing at
                    the Ohio Theatre in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .22 Though the latter was badly in need of a vocalist, he appears
                    not to have acted upon Connaughton's recommendation until he learned that Powell was
                    stranded in Anderson. It was then that he directed Fritz Morris, his band's manager, to
                    send Dick a ticket and "eating money" to get to 
                        Indianapolis
                    .23
            
            In that city on September 3, 1926, Powell signed a contract with the Charlie Davis Orchestra that
                    called upon him to appear with Davis as a banjo player and vocalist, starting Sunday, September 12.
                    In return for ninety dollars weekly, Powell was to perform with the orchestra daily, first for the
                    live entertainment portions of the program at the Ohio Theatre and then for late night dancing at
                    the 
                        Columbia
                     Club.24 Although the contract's principals failed to
                    realize it at the time, "Richard" Powell was about to become the
                    "Dick" Powell who was to beguile twenty million sweethearts nationwide into
                    believing that they could paint the clouds with sunshine—no mean feat in Depression
                    haunted America.
            The Ohio Theatre (40 West Ohio Street), the initial site of that transformation, was a 1,500-seat
                    silent film house that, until the Charlie Davis era, had been something less than a gold mine,
                    playing to customers "who didn't mind a really bad picture."25 This very state of affirs was responsible for owner Dave Coulter's
                    engaging Davis and his band in February, 1924, to put on a forty-minute stage show four times
                        daily.26 Though the accompanying 
                  
                     21 Allyson, Allyson, 104.
                  
                     22 Schiedt, Jazz State, 60–61.
                  
                     23 Charlie Davis, 
                        Oswego, New York
                     , to
                            the author, July 27, 1981.
                  
                     24 Contract, Scrapbook No. 8, DPSC.
                  
                     25 Charlie Davis, That Band from Indiana, ed. Lewis
                            Turco (
                        Oswego, New York
                     , 1982), 24.
                  
                     26 Howard 
                                Caldwell
                            , "The Charlie Davis Era in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Magazine, 14 (January, 1977), 11; Davis, That Band,
                            24. There were two shows in the afternoon together with shows at 7 and 9 p.m. Davis and his
                            band were paid $880.00 per week for doing these shows.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     A BIT OF OLD HOLLAND
                     , TYPICAL OF THE CHARLIE DAVIS SHOWS AT THE OHIO THEATRE IN THE 1926–1927 SEASON
                  
                  Courtesy Duncan Schiedt, Pittsboro, Indiana
               
                    
                  POWELL AND HIS BANJO
                                WITH THE CHARLIE DAVIS BAND
                  
                  The band is shown participating in a 1927 publicity stunt in which Davis became
                            "Mayor for the Day."
                  Courtesy Duncan Schiedt, Pittsboro, Indiana.
               
                     film changed weekly, the Davis organization remained a month
                    and a half. Then, the following September, they became a permanent fixture at the theater. By the
                    time Dick Powell joined them in the fall of 1926, audiences expected to see Charles Davis and his
                    men in the pit, playing for the newsreel and the comedy. Patrons also enjoyed the specialty numbers
                    that the band sometimes offered in the closing minutes of the feature fiim.27
            
            Then, in the wake of an organ solo by Dessa Byrd, the house organist, it was time for the stage show.
                    At this point, the band's members, who had assembled backstage, climbed aboard a two level
                    band car operated by a stage hand named Charlie Kuhn. On cue, the latter turned a hand crank and
                    literally pulled the car some eight feet forward to the footlights and the back when the show
                    concluded. The entertainment that Davis offered the Ohio audiences ranged from light and sometimes
                    humorous numbers to popular ballads and jazz. The format for the future triumphs of both Davis and
                    Powell was in the making as the result of a suggestion by the sousaphone player, Dwight Jones:
                    "Let's do a Paul Ash."28 Jones, of course, wanted the
                    band to emulate the success of a highly personable band leader, then electrifying audiences at 
                        Chicago
                    's Oriental Theatre with his mop of red hair and flamboyant gestures.
            Dave Coulter, the 
                        Ohio
                    's owner, not only liked Jones's suggestion but sent Davis to 
                        Chicago
                     to look at Ash's format with the idea of transporting it to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . So impressed was Davis that on his return to the Ohio he began "doing a Paul
                    Ash." Thus, "that band from Indiana" became a stage show in itself, with
                    Davis functioning as the master of ceremonies for the live presentation. In this role he
                    "laughed, applauded, and thoroughly enjoyed the goings-on, urging the audience to do
                        likewise."29 As Coulter had hoped, patrons began crowding into the
                        
                  
                     27 Davis, in many ways a typical representative of the musical culture
                            of the 1920s, had led musical groups since his days at Shortridge High School, from which he
                            graduated in 1915. Subsequently, at Notre Dame, he led his own orchestra, and a year after
                            his graduation (1921) he organized the band that Coulter hired for the Ohio Theater. In
                            addition to Davis's autobiography, That Band from Indiana, see
                            the following: Howard 
                                Caldwell
                            , "The Charlie Davis Era in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Magazine, 14 (January, 1977), 11, (February, 1977), 17–18,
                            (March, 1977), 52–53; Bruce Allen Hardy, "Charlie Davis, Copenhagen and the Musical Culture of the '20s," Storyville, No. 62 (December, 1975-January, 1976), 55–56, 62.
                  
                     28 Quoted in Davis, That Band, 40.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 10. Explaining the key to Ash's success, Davis wrote:
                            "Just watch how absorbed he is with the fellow's efforts [reference to an
                            onstage vaudevillian], and how he seems to transfer that interest to the audience."
                                Ibid., 43.
               
                     Ohio Theatre. Many shows were sold out with crowds waiting in
                    the lobby for the next performance. Quite clearly, they had not come to see the movie but
                    Davis's adaptation of the Paul Ash idea, with Dick Powell singing songs like "My
                    Blue Heaven," "I Can't Give You Anything but Love," and
                    "At Sundown."30
            
            Davis, recognizing Powell's part in his success, devised "little pieces"
                    for him to do with the bands drummer, Clayton "DOC" Stultz. The applause that
                    greeted these bits was all the encouragement Powell and Stultz needed to quit Davis early in
                    January, 1927, to try their luck as a two-man vaudeville act.31 A contract drawn
                    by Ascher Bros. Booking Offices, 
                        Chicago
                    , places the pair, billed as the "Harmony Singmg Comedian," in four
                    area theaters between January 15 and 23.32 A second contract with the same
                    office gives "Comedy, Songs and Piano" three consecutive days work, beginning
                    January 27.33 A final contract with Carrell's Theatrical Agency calls
                    for the "Singing Piano" to appear in 
                        Michigan City
                    , Indiana, on January 30, beginning with the Sunday matinee.34 The
                    thirty dollars a day that the act received was scarcely what Powell and Stultz had envisioned their
                    talents were worth; and the recurring changes in the act's name, together with what appear
                    to be pencilled-out play dates, suggest a second failure to find in vaudeville the adventure and
                    riches Dick assumed to be his American birthright.35
            
            Moreover, on his return to 
                        Indianapolis
                     early in February, Powell found Davis disinclined to take him back, despite the 
                  
                     30 Davis to the author, July 28, 1981.
                  
                     31 Heath, "Why Dick Powell Wants Marriage." She
                            maintains that Dick gave up his job and went to Florida to become a real estate salesman.
                            Further, she quotes Powell: "But I got there just as the boom was over. Another
                            time I quit again, and went to 
                                Chicago
                             as an agent for the International Harvester Co. (His father was an agent for
                            that company in 
                                Arkansas
                            .) But I just couldn't make it." Ramsey qualifies
                            Dick's whereabouts at this time by maintaining that the boom was over before he
                            could get there. See Ramsey, "Private Life," 97. This researcher doubts
                            Powell's Florida connection—at least in this time
                            frame—because, according to H. Reagan Carey, Dick and Mid were together in 
                                Indianapolis
                             from February through May, 1927. See Carey to the author, October 11, 1981.
                  
                     32 The theaters in question were the Forest Park, the Terminal, West
                            Engle-wood (pencilled out), and the Midwest. Film Daily Year Book, 1929
                            locates the Forest Park at Des Plaines and 
                                Madison
                             Streets, seating 1,400; the Terminal, 3308 Lawrence Street, seating 1,500; the
                            West Englewood, 1623 West 63rd Street, seating 2,600; the Midwest, 3566 Archer Street, no
                            seating listed.
                  
                     33 The theaters were the Colony, 59th Street, no seating listed; and
                            the Kedzie, no address, seating 997. See Film Daily Year Book, 1929.
                  
                     34 The theater was the Tivoli, no address, no seating listed. See Film Daily Year Book, 1929.
                  
                     35 John E. DiMeglio quotes a 1920s pamphlet that claimed that
                            vaudeville was "the neatist, cleanest, most independence-giving, businesslike
                            branch of the entertainment scene. According to the pamphlet, vaudevillians were the highest
                            paid professionals in the world. See John E. DiMeglio, Vaudeville U.S.A.
                                    (
                        Bowling Green, Ohio
                     , 1973), 12.
               
                     urging of mutual friends. As a consequence, Powell began
                    singing with Emil Seidel's orchestra at the Apollo Theatre; however, the engagement was
                    only for three weeks. (Subsequently, he was brought back for two additional weeks in May.) A
                    newspaperman, writing of the young singer's Apollo appearances, said that he had
                    "a sensitive personality" together with a voice that "commands interest
                    as well as attention."36 But those whose attention he wanted to
                    capture, especially Davis, were, for the moment at least, uninterested. Committed to the belief that
                    Davis would relent, given time, Powell turned down job opportunities in 
                        Cleveland
                     and elsewhere.37
            
            H. Reagan Carey, playing with Davis that spring, gives a picture of the Powells, who were then living
                    at the Gem Hotel, "a small, second rate place across from the 
                        Ohio
                    ." So desperate was their situation, he recalls, that Carey's parents
                    repeatedly pitched in and fed the young couple.38 Of course, their plight was
                    made known to Davis, who at length relented and offered Powell his job back, although at a reduction
                    in salary of ten dollars a week. When Dick did rejoin the band, their season at the Ohio was about
                    over, but Davis included him in his summer plans. These called for "that band from
                    Indiana" to play at the Fair-view Hotel, Lake Manitou, 
                        Rochester
                    , Indiana, from Memorial Day through Labor Day. Though telegrams continued to come
                    Powell's way with job opportunities, he accepted none of them. Thus, he was included in the
                    offer that the Indiana Theatre management tendered Davis to do "a Stage Band anchor
                        job."39
            
            The Indiana (136 West 
                        Washington
                     Street), a 3,500-seat house, had opened June 18, 1927, with a fifty-piece symphony
                    orchestra in the pit. But, by early September, the Skouras brothers, Charles, Spyros, and George,
                    who controlled the house, had decided to forego semi-classical music and "go into something
                    the people would buy"—namely Charlie Davis, Dick Powell, and company.40 As at the 
                        Ohio
                    , they were not called upon to provide accompaniment for the silent films, though they
                    frequently provided a musical background during its closing minutes and they played during the
                    newsreel. They would then be featured in an overture with the orchestra pit elevated and
                    spotlighted. In its 
                  
                     36 "Again Welcoming Dick Powell in Meloddy Here,"
                            clipping, Scrapbook No. 13, DPSC.
                  
                     37 See the telegrams preserved in Scrapbook No. 18, DPSC.
                  
                     38 Carey to the author, October 11, 1981.
                  
                     39 Davis to the author, July 27, 1981.
                  
                     40 For an illustration of the house's claim to elegance, see
                            the description in Gene Gladson, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Theatres from A to 2 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 19761, 59–61.
               
                     wake, the organ was featured, allowing the band to move to the
                    stage to "anchor" the fifty minutes of live entertainment that followed.41
            
            The production of the weekly shows at the Ohio had been largely Davis's responsibility and
                    had initially featured his own band. This format was certainly encouraged by the example of Paul
                    Ash, who made the stage band idea not only popular but profitable. As part of the Publix theater
                    chain, however, the Indiana Theatre had access to stage units that moved about the country from one
                    Publix theater to another. The Davis band provided musical support for the visiting artists and was
                    itself one of the featured acts. As at the 
                        Ohio
                    , Davis functioned as the master of ceremonies, keeping things moving with introductions
                    and a running comment directed at local happenings and tastes. Having worked with a veritable
                    procession of these units, Davis was in a position to articulate their makeup: "Hire a good
                    singer or songstress, a good dancer, a funnyman; give 'em some good material, a good song
                    or two and an occasional line of girls, and you're off and running."42
            
            Powell himself would be "off and running" with a comparable format late in May,
                    1928, when the opportunity came his way to head the stage shows at the neighboring Circle Theatre,
                    which, like the Indiana, was under the Skouras brothers' management. The Circle (45
                    Monument Circle), which boasted 3,000 seats, had opened on August 30, 1916, as the
                    "ultimate" in motion picture palaces. As such, it touted not only films but
                    vaudeville. By 1928, however, the Circle was offering stage shows that featured Fanchon and Marco
                        units.43 Though these presentations were distinctly salable commodities
                    under most circumstances, they were no real competition for the Davis touch at the Indiana. Not even
                    Eddie Pardo, hired as master of ceremonies, made a difference. Then Pardo reportedly took one drink
                    too many and appeared on stage intoxicated for one of the shows on Monday, May 21, 1928. He was
                    summarily fired, and Dick Powell was brought in as his replacement the next day.44
            
            The seventeen weekly shows in which Powell doubled as master of ceremonies and vocalist appear to
                    have resembled their 
                  
                     41
                            
                                Caldwell
                            , "Charlie Davis Era," (February, 1977), 18.
                  
                     42 Davis, That Band, 102.
                  
                     43 Every week Fanchon and Marco Wolff, a brother-sister team, produced
                            a unit show designated an "Idea"; that is, they produced fifty-two shows a
                            year and did so throughout the 1920s and into the 1930s. Featuring a line of Sunkist
                            Beauties, the Ideas were booked into Fox, RKO, and Publix theaters.
                  
                     44
                            
                                Caldwell
                            , "Remember a Local Singer," 20.
               
                    
                    
                  INDIANA THEATRE IN 1927, THE YEAR OF ITS COMPLETION
                  
                  Courtesy Theatre Historical Society, 
                                Chicago
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  THE INDIANA THEATRE'S 3,500 SEAT AUDITORIUM
                  
                  Courtesy Theatre Historical Society, 
                                Chicago
                            .
               
                     counterparts at the Indiana in that they were indebted to an
                    innovator as important to the Dick Powell story as Paul Ash. This individual was Frank Cambria,
                    production man for the shows that rotated among the larger houses of the Paramount Publix chain of
                    two thousand theaters nationwide. Cambria, among others, saw to it that each Publix show possessed a
                    the matic unity with the settings, songs, music, and costumes elaborating a single
                    motif—one that seldom complemented the picture on the same program. Shows in the Cambria
                    manner presented on the Circle stage between May 22 and September 14, when the theater discontinued
                    its "vaudefilm" policy, were the primary catalysts in the transformation of
                    "Richard" into "Dick" Powell. This species of entertainment
                    demanded that a theater's permanent master of ceremonies do more than shake a stick at an
                    orchestra. He had to learn to talk, to be funny, to dance, and to sing. Furthermore, he had to learn
                    to be a straight man to a new comedian each week, and at times he even had to write his own
                        material.45
            
            As Powell mastered first one and then another of the necessities of his position, he succeeded in
                    appealing to his audience. Out of the Dawn, the show which opened the week
                    beginning August 19, was one of the best attractions of its kind ever at the Circle and was
                    representive of the Ash-Cambria-Davis format, so flattering to a neophyte like Powell. Preceding it
                    was an overture, "Slavonic Rhapsody," which was performed by the Circle's
                    concert orchestra from the pit. At its conclusion, Dessa Byrd offered an organ novelty while members
                    of the concert orchestra regrouped as the house's stage band. The stage show then commenced
                    with the appearance of perhaps as many as a dozen precision dancers, the Circle Comets. Once the
                    Comets had established the show's mood, they brought on Powell, who sang "Out of
                    the Dawn," the hit song lending its name to the show. After a "hot band
                    number" from the musicians on the stage, Anita LaPierre, a French comedienne, entertained
                    with her songs. She was followed by "spirited dancers," Chilton & Thomas,
                    and by Scotty Weston, "a whirlwind tap dancer." Powell, who had introduced the
                    various vaudevillians, was himself featured in the finale with Coleman Goetz, a comedian of whom
                    Circle audiences never seemed to tire. Their joint contribution was a skit in which Goetz tried to
                    get Dick to stay out late at night. Before 
                  
                     45 "Mr. Powell Keeps Busy," clipping, Scrapbook No.
                            14, DPSC.
               
                     the final curtain the Comets returned and were joined by Powell
                    in a reprise of "Out of the Dawn."46
            
            Unfortunately, newspaper comment does not provide the reader with detailed descriptions of the other
                    shows that Powell emceed. But newsmen of the day did make it clear that "Dick Powell was
                    emerging, as early as May 26 when Spices of 1928 debuted. This "TNT hodge
                    podge," which followed Ed Resener's overture and Dessa Byrd's
                    "sing song," was the first weekly show with which Powell was identified. (It may
                    be remembered that he had taken over from Eddie Pardo in midweek.) Reporters not only noted this
                    fact but assured their readers that Dick was pleasing his followers "immensely,"
                    as he interrupted his "director duties" to chat briefly with the audience. Though
                    the show's advertisement in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star on Sunday, May 27, noted the presence of Ginger Rogers, the newsmen did not.
                    Their primary concern was with Dick's progress. His singing of "Mary Ann"
                    made an impression, one writer affirming that "there is no doubt the audience loved both
                    the song and the singer."47
            
            Not surprisingly, it was the singer and his songs which provoked comment from the press. With each
                    show he seemed to sing with "more power and assurance." Responding to his singing
                    of "Red, Red Rose" in Summer Follies, a reporter prohesied that
                    the way Powell developed that song would be the talk of the town. Certainly, Powell seems to have
                    been a topic of conversation following his singing of "Last Night I Dreamed You Kissed
                    Me"—his latest Vocalion record.48 The song was described as
                    the hit of the show. Upon hearing it, Helen Kennedy, the blues singer on the bill, interrupted
                    Dick's introduction of her by asking where he had been all her life. That very query was
                    woven throughout her act, leading a reviewer to write that it was "good comedy."
                    More importantly, though, this format helped to solidify an image of Powell as "boyish and
                    buoyant," as "genuinely 
                  
                     46 Unless otherwise noted, information on the shows and their content
                            were taken from Saturday advertisements and review comment in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star.
                  
                     47 Clipping, Scrapbook No. 13, DPSC.
                  
                     48 Vocalion Records were manufactured by the Brunswick-Balke-Collender
                            Co., 623–633 South Wabash Avenue, 
                        Chicago, Illinois
                     .
                            Together with Charlie Davis and the band, Powell made a number of records for Vocalion
                            beginning in 1928. The first, no. 15702, with a vocal chorus by Dick Powell, was
                            "You're a Real Sweetheart." Subsequently described as
                            "an exclusive Vocalion Artist," Powell made "Is She My
                            Girl?" and "Beautiful," no. 15647, as well as "Last
                            Night I Dreamed You Kissed Me," which was paired with "Was It a
                            Dream?" no. 15699. These records, which sold for 75 cents, brought Powell welcome
                            publicity but only a modest supplement to his income. See items in Scrapbook No. 8.
                        DPSC.
               
                    
                    
                  CIRCLE THEATRE, 1930
                  Opened in 1916, it could seat 3,000 people.
                  Courtesy Theatre Historical Society, 
                                Chicago
                            .
               
                     sweet and gracious," as "charming and utterly
                    unaffected."
            As early as Happy Days, his third weekly show, a newsman observed: "Some
                    men are born masters of ceremonies. Others have it thrust upon them and some acquire the art.
                    Whichever it is, Dick Powell is getting better. He is beginning to get across."49 This assertion was borne out by the reaction to his twelfth show, Seeing Things, in which he stole all the applause: "And that is as it
                    should be. Powell is the Circle's one stage attraction, and be the show good or bad, the
                    audience will remember Dick after they have forgotten what the rest of the attraction was all
                        about."50 Although such a comment is indicative of
                        Sunny Skies—the title of his thirteenth show—clouds did threaten
                    these halcyon days.
            For one thing Mid Powell represented nothing less than a thundercloud. As noted earlier, Mid resented
                    her husband's choice of career and especially the demands it made upon his time. That he
                    was caught up in an exacting schedule is all too clear from his comments to a fan magazine writer
                    years later in Hollywood: "I had to be at the theatre from 11 in the morning until 11 at
                    night, seven days a week. . . . But that was only for the shows themselves. On top of that there
                    were rehearsals. So, three mornings a week, I'd get there at seven a.m., three mornings a
                    week at ten—and three nights a week, after the last audiences had left, we'd
                    rehearse until two-thirty for the next week's show."51
            
            It was not merely Powell's time away from her that Mid resented. Even more provoking were
                    the legions of "squealing girls" who crowded the theater show after show. She made
                    every effort to have those who had the temerity to venture backstage for an autograph thrown out of
                    the theater; however, she could not deal so summarily with females from the cast. It was a
                    "fretful" situation that had existed since his days at the Ohio Theatre. Witness a
                    moment recalled by Mrs. Artie Carpenter, in 1926 a sixteen-year-old performer with Gertrude
                    Hacker's "Dancing Dollies" at the 
                        Ohio
                    . She recalls that her fellow dancers thought that Dick was "very sweet and
                    handsome," and they wanted to show Powell just how they felt about him. Accordingly, one
                    night as the curtain went up, there was Dick, stage center front, "sitting 
                  
                     49 "In Which Dick Powell Wins Again," clipping,
                            Scrapbook No. 13, DPSC.
                  
                     50 "Looking over the Show at the Circle," clipping,
                            Scrapbook No. 13, DPSC.
                  
                     51 Heath, "Why Dick Powell Wants Marriage."
               
                     and holding his banjo, and lip stick all over his face. The
                    girls had seized their opportunity."52
            
            No doubt there were other expressions of approbation from fans in front of and behind the curtain at
                    the Ohio and Circle theaters, but if incidents like the one Mrs. Carpenter recalls threatened
                    Powell's married life, they did not imperil his livelihood. A storm cloud that promised to
                    do just that was the increasing popularity of sound films. It may or may not be significant that the
                    Circle was the first 
                        Indianapolis
                     theater to show a sound film, The Jazz Singer, advertised during the
                    week of February 4, 1928. Its popularity, both locally and nationally, led chain owners, like the
                    Skouras brothers, to contemplate what a year earlier would have been unthinkable: the abolition of
                    live entertainment from programs in first-run houses. If they were tempted, it was because the
                    theater manager—not obligated to pay stage hands, musicians, vaude acts, and the liken
                    could reduce operating expenses at the typical theater by as much as 75 percent.53
            
            The Skouras brothers discontinued live entertainment shows at the Circle Theatre early in the fall of
                    1928, and the week beginning September 8 was advertised as Dick Powell's
                    "Farewell." Thereafter, beginning on September 15, a new "sight
                    sound" policy was to be introduced with the screening of Lilac Time,
                    starring Colleen Moore and Gary Cooper. Singing "That's My Way of Forgetting
                    You," Dick said goodby to Circle audiences, who responded with "frequent and
                    genuine applause." If they were markedly reluctant to see him go, it was because they liked
                    his "usual pleasing, naive and unpretentious manner," which was spotlighted in the
                    stage shows. Echoing their sentiments, a newsman wrote, "There is the spontaneity and color
                    of youth about Mr. Powell, enhancing his vocal accomplishments and giving grace to his
                        movement."54
            
            That final week Powell's future appears to have been still in doubt. He told an interviewer:
                    "I'm working for the Skouras Brothers Publix Corporation, and I'll have
                    to go where they send me. It may be back to the Indiana with Charlie Davis; it may be to the Indiana
                    Ballroom; or I may be sent to some other city."55 Had the choice been
                    his to make, he would very likely have returned 
                  
                     52 Mrs. Floyd Carpenter, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , to the author, January 22, 1982.
                  
                     53 Jack Robinson of the Theatre Historical Society, Harrington Park, 
                                New Jersey
                            , to the author, September 6, 1981.
                  
                     54 "The Night Watch," clipping, Scrapbook No. 13,
                            DPSC.
                  
                     55 Helen Langston, "Dick Powell Grants Farewell
                            Interview," clipping, Scrapbook No. 13, DPSC.
               
                     to Davis; but the latter evinced no inclination to have him
                    back—no doubt fearing Dick would again desert him at the behest of his career.56 With no theater beyond 
                        Indianapolis
                     seeking his services, for the moment at least, his only alternative was the Indiana
                    Roof.
            Before his "gala debut" at the Roof on October 13, however, Powell appeared the
                    week beginning October 6 with Davis at the Indiana Theatre in a show called Heap Big
                        Fun. Described as "a lusty testimony of appreciation of the youthful, smiling
                    lad" from the Circle, the show was built around an Indian powwow with Davis and his band
                    appearing in Royal Canadian Mounted Police uniforms. Although the showpiece of the production was
                    the display of Indian costumes by Felicia Sorel's dance troupe, it was Powell's
                    appearance that was the "most entertaining feature" of the program, and he had to
                    sing encore after encore to satisfy the demands of his admirers. Just such a reaction to
                    Dick's "unaffected manner" lay behind the Skouras brothers'
                    reluctance to let him disappear from the local scene; thus, they engaged Powell to front the band at
                    the Indiana Roof.
            The Indiana Roof Ballroom—literally atop the Indiana Theatre—had opened on
                    September 2, 1927, in response to the dance craze that had brought the Peter Pan into being in 
                        Little Rock
                    . What was advertised early in October, 1928, was "a new type of dance
                    entertainment," with Powell emceeing the proceedings as well as singing the songs
                    identified with him locally. Though his presence was described as "permanent,"
                    Dick appears to have been marking time, that is until late January or February, 1929, when he
                    received an offer from Ace Berry, formerly the manager of the Circle and Indiana theaters, who had
                    been transferred to the Warner-Skouras zone offices in 
                  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
               .
                    Berry wanted Powell to emcee the stage shows at the newly opened Enright Theatre in the East Liberty
                    section of that city. To all intents and purposes, Powell had reached the end of his 
                        Indianapolis
                     years; however, he maintained the stage persona that had emerged out of the live shows
                    at the Circle. This "youthful, smiling lad" would be renewed and
                    reiterated—not redefined—in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and Hollywood.
            The Enright, a neighborhood house with "a big city feeling," had opened its doors
                    on December 28, 1928. Patrons felt they were in "a real theatre" because it
                    contained 3,000 seats and it offered movies and vaudeville, but the theater's intimidating
                    dimensions argued against the success of the venture. Vaudeville 
                  
                     56 Carey to the author, October 11, 1981.
               
                     was, after all, a "personalized business," in
                    which theaters were small enough for the performer's personality to reach across the
                    footlights, and patrons could not only see every change of expression but also hear every word.57 The Enright was an acoustical nightmare, and its huge stage opening seemed to
                    swallow up the typical vaudeville act, with its four or less performers. Zone headquarter's
                    answer to the problems at the Enright was to scrap the vaudeville bills and to offer Ash-Cambria
                    type presentations with Indiana's favorite tenor as master of ceremonies. Ash-Cambria
                    presentations, with their large bands on stage to provide a backdrop for featured performers, were
                    the species of entertainment best suited to mammoth movie palaces with large stage openings.
            Powell opened in East Liberty the week beginning March 2, presiding over thirty-four shows. Then, on
                    October 19, he was transferred to the Stanley Theatre, flagship house of the Warner Bros.' 
                        Pittsburgh
                     zone. His opening song at the Enright was "I'll Get By," and
                    if he was able to do just that, first in East Liberty and then "downtown," it was
                    because the format of the shows duplicated the formula that had emerged at the Circle. This species
                    of production both guaranteed Powell a maximum of exposure and capitalized on his one real strength
                    as a moviehouse showman: his boyishness, his ingratiating blitheness that never failed to convince
                    his admirers that it was fun to be young and healthy.58
            
            To paraphrase the title of the song "You Were Meant for Me," with which he opened
                    at the Stanley, his fans in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     felt he was "meant for them," especially during the week beginning
                    July 24, 1930, when that "nifty bit of business in presentation
                        entertainment"—Moonbeams—opened. Its mix of tap
                    dancing, comedy, xylophone playing, and a tango was but a prelude to the appearance of the
                    headliner, Bernice Claire, then appearing at the Stanley on a personal appearance tour.59 Wearing a fluffy blue gown that touched the floor, she was a delightful thing
                    to 
                  
                     57 Joe Laurie, Jr., Vaudeville: From the Honky-tonks to
                                the Palace (
                                New York
                            , 1953), 4.
                  
                     58 Of the songs that Powell sang in 42nd St., the
                            one that helped significantly to launch his career as a movie heartthrobber, as the
                            nation's boyfriend, was titled "Young and Healthy." In person,
                            Powell was its very embodiment.
                  
                     59 Miss Claire had recently completed the screen version of
                            "No, No, Nanette" for Warner Bros. As the Depression deepened, individual
                            studios, like Warner Bros., stepped up their practice of sending out their stable of stars
                            on personal appearance tours between films. Such tours were invariably good for business at
                            the box office. Powell was sent on just such a tour in April and May, 1933.
               
                     behold, but her "captivating voice" and
                    "fetching ease and grace" did not overshadow the show's master of
                    ceremonies. As evidence, a newsman wrote, "And may I not say a word for the clean-cut young
                    Mr. Powell, who teams well with her [they held hands as they sang ‘Tea for
                    Two’], and who will some day be more than a movie house master of
                        ceremonies."60
            
            For the moment at least, Powell was content to be what Paul Ash had been to 
                        Chicago
                    , "only more so." Perceived as "a straight forward, likable
                    young fellow, who goes about his business without any unnecessary displays," this
                    upstanding young performer was far more than a fad—he was a craze.61
                    Who cared if the movie was a "goodie" or a "stinker."
                    "Tall, svelt" Dick was always on hand with his "curly blondish hair
                    slicked down and crinkly smiling eyes." Singing with "much charisma," he
                    always kept the show going at a fast pace, "never trying to upstage the
                        guests."62
            
            In April, 1930, when Powell was at the height of his popularity in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , he returned to the Indiana Theatre to emcee Ace High, the Publix
                    show offered during Easter week. As his old friends were quick to note, Dick had not changed
                    much— except he seemed a little more polished as a master of ceremonies and "a
                    bit more confident."63 But then his recent past in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     had been essentially an extension to his 
                        Indianapolis
                     beginnings. True he had "more entertaining ability than before," and
                    his voice as well as his stage presence had improved, but he still personified, albeit more clearly,
                    the promise and the possiblity of his generation. It remained only for those beyond 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to applaud this hero in the American grain.
            The man responsible for bringing Powell to that audience was a now forgotten Warner Bros. scout who
                    wandered into the Stanley in the spring of 1932, heard Dick sing, and sent an excited telegram to
                    Rufus La Maire, casting director for the studio. On the strength of that wire, arrangements were
                    made for Dick to make a test for a role in the Crooner. Because the test
                    highlighted Powell's lack of acting experience, he was assigned a less demanding bit in Blessed Event. During the six weeks it took to shoot, Powell was on leave from the
                    Stanley, but he returned 
                  
                     60 Unidentified review, Scrapbook No. 13, DPSC.
                  
                     61 Bob Moak, "Dick Powell's Divorce
                            Revealed," article from Screen Book, Scrapbook No. 12, DPSC.
                  
                     62 Janice Shuty, a Stanley fan, 
                                Pittsburgh
                            , to the author, December 14, 1981.
                  
                     63 Unidentified review, Scrapbook No. 13, DPSC.
               
                     with the intention of completing his current contract, which
                    ran until July 1.64
            
            Well before that date, Blessed Event had been previewed and Powell judged a modest
                    success in the role of a radio crooner unlucky enough to be the object of a gossip
                    columnist's enmity. What Powell had hoped for came to pass: he was given a five year
                    contract with Warner Bros., to begin August 15, 1932. After appearing for the last time before a 
                        Pittsburgh
                     audience on June 6, he departed for a week of emceeing the stage show at 
                        Philadelphia
                    's Mastbaum Theatre. (He was held over for a second week.) It was a time for
                    public and private farewells, for proclaiming that Dick was almost as important in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     "as structural steel or Andrew Carnegie." For his part, Powell
                    affirmed that he owed all his good fortune to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , that he had to make good for the sake of his western Pennsylvania friends.65 The price attached to his success, however, was his marriage.
            In 
                        Pittsburgh
                     as in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Mid resented the attention young, stage-struck females heaped upon her husband and the
                    attention that fellow performers directed his way. Alvin P. "Al" Marsico, the
                    Enright's musical director, in recalling Mid's jealousy and resentfulness, speaks
                    of an incident involving a performer named Dorothy James, who was appearing on one of the
                    Enright's bills. Dick, as he so frequently did, had worked himself into her act. The stage
                    business called for James to kiss Powell on the cheek, which she did to the chagrin of Mid, watching
                    from the audience. Afterwards at home, she very likely threw things and, chances are, she drank
                    either homebrew that Marsico got for her or the liquor that local bootleggers sold her. Whatever the
                    case, Mid's drinking was no secret in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , and, according to Darrel Martin, then the radio columnist for the Sun
                        Telegraph, the breakup of the marriage was an unwritten but orally understood condition of
                    the contract.66 If indeed it was, Powell accepted the condition, for when his
                    Mastbaum engagement was concluded, he headed for Hollywood without Mid to become that
                    community's most "elligible, elligible"—linked romantically
                    with names like Alice Faye, Merle Oberon, Myrna Loy, and Olivia deHaviland.
            As Powell admitted to the writer for a fan magazine, he was pretty much overcome by Hollywood with
                    its plethora of fine actors, 
                  
                     64 Harold W. Cohen, "Dick Powell gets Screen
                            Contract," 
                                Pittsburgh
                            
                            Post Gazette, April 8, 1932, 1, 4.
                  
                     65 "Dick Powell Thanks 
                                Pittsburgh
                             for Big Chance in Films," clipping from 
                                Pittsburgh
                            
                            Post-Gazette, Scrapbook No. 12, DPSC.
                  
                     66 Interview with Darrell Martin, Munhall, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , October 9, 1981.
               
                     handsome men, and beautiful women.67 It may
                    have had its faults, he admitted to Ruby Keeler, but it was still, for him at least, "Santa
                        Claus."68 Hollywood was seductive because it showered fame and
                    fortune upon him, never asking him in the twenty seven films that he made for Warner Bros. to be
                    anything other than himself, than the persona he had created in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and polished in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . Witness the descriptions of him that surfaced in print during the early Hollywood
                    years. Not untypical is the newspaper piece that begins by calling him "boyish and buoyant.
                    . . with a youthful gusto . . . and a joy in life" and concludes by noting that he is
                    "genuinely sweet and gracious."69 Also representative is an
                    article that lauds him for bringing "so much of cheerfulness and friendliness to the
                        screen."70
            
            This is the very Powell whom his 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Pittsburgh
                     friends knew: the boy who makes you forget your troubles with a smile, the
                    "spirit of youth incarnate," who makes the old sigh for their lost youth even as
                    the young appreciate the gift which is theirs.71 Florence Fisher Parry, from 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , had dinner with him at Hollywood's Cocoanut Grove during his very first
                    months on the Coast. Blessed Event had not yet been released to the public, but
                    she prophesied that when it was, the nation would see the Powell his Stanley (and Circle) friends
                    knew at first hand: "You can't see him without feeling an essential Health about
                    him; a Rightness, a Realness. He's genuinely happy and naturally clean. His eyes are clear
                    and straight and young."72
            
            Expressing their satisfaction with Powell's musical films, American moviegoers voted him
                    among Hollywood's most popular actors in 1935 and again in 1936. What is not so well known
                    is that once Powell had established himself in films like 42nd St., Golddiggers of
                    1933, and Footlight Parade, he was increasingly restive with the role of an
                    "eternal juvenile," and by the time he finished Golddiggers of
                    1935 he wanted out of films that repeated the "same stupid story." What he
                    wanted were roles that would allow him to develop into a real actor. In quest of them he quit Warner
                    Bros. late in 1938. It was not until he signed with RKO in 1944, however, that he had the
                    opportunity 
                  
                     67 Gladys Hall, "Dick Powell Reveals the Temptations of an
                            Actor," article, Scrapbook No. 16, DPSC.
                  
                     68 "Ruby Keeler Tells on . . .," unidentified
                            article, Scrapbook No. 16, DPSC.
                  
                     69 Unidentified clipping, Scrapbook No 16, DPSC.
                  
                     70 "Saluting Dick Powell," article, Scrapbook No. 4,
                            DPSC.
                  
                     71 Preserved in Scrapbook No. 4, DPSC.
                  
                     72 "On with the Show: Dick Powell Retains Wholesome Charm
                            Despite Filmland's Softening Influence," clipping from 
                                Pittsburgh
                            
                            Press, Scrapbook No. 4, DPSC.
               
                     to play "somebody with guts": the hard-boiled
                    Philip Marlowe in an adaption of Raymond Chandler's novel, Farewell, My
                        Lovely.73
            
            When Edward Dmytryk, the film's director, learned that Powell was the studio's
                    choice to play Marlowe, he was nonplussed, not being able to envision the man who sang
                    "Tiptoe through the Tulips" playing a tough private detective. To his surprise
                    Powell did just that, doing what was asked of him "competently and effortlessly."
                    Dmytryk came to believe that Powell's Marlowe was closer to the essence of
                    Chandler's character than the Marlowes of Humphrey Bogart, Robert 
                        Montgomery
                    , or Robert Mitchum. By way of explanation he maintained that Powell played the role as
                    Chandler envisioned Marlowe: "really an Eagle Scout, a do-gooder, with a patina of
                    toughness only skin deep."74 Further, the director believed that this
                    "good-guy characterization" was the way Powell was: "an Arkansas farm-boy
                    who got into show business because his voice was too sweet for calling hogs, and who never quite got
                    all the hay out of his hair."75 Put another way, under the tough,
                    cynical patina was the Powell beloved by 
                        Indianapolis
                     audiences.
            The latter very likely applauded his deserved success in the role of Marlowe, and they unquestionably
                    turned out to see him in the action melodramas that followed—from Cornered (1945) to Tall Target (1951). One suspects, too, that they turned
                    their television sets to "Dick Powell's Zane Grey Theatre" that aired
                    weekly from 1956 to 1961, for there they were given more of the same. The Powell that Hoosier fans
                    remembered most fondly, though, was not the "deadpan tough guy" but rather the
                    "boyish cinemusical crooner," who came to life on the stages of the 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and Circle theaters: a charming youngster standing "tiptoe on the
                    rim of life."76 This Powell—the Powell of the Warner Bros.
                    years—smiled infectiously and sang his way into his audiences' hearts,
                    convincing one and all that there really was happiness ahead.
            
               
                  73 Anna Roth, ed., Current Biography 1948 (
                            New York
                        , 1949), 504.
               
                  74 Edward Dmytryk, It's a Hell of a Life but Not a
                            Bad Living (
                            New York
                        , 1978), 60.
               
                  75
                        Ibid.
               
                  76 Julia Gwin, unidentified fan magazine article, Scrapbook No. 4,
                    DPSC.
            
            
            
               DICK POWELL, CHipmunk CHEEKS AND ALL, IN HOLLYWOOD C. 1935.
               Courtesy John L. Marsh.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Publisher: Gene Pulliam, Last of the Newspaper Titans. By Russell Pulliam. (
                        Ottawa
                    , Ill.: Jameson Books, 1984. Pp. ix, 318. Illustrations, index. $16.95.)
            This could have been a very bad book. It is a biography of one of Indiana's (and 
                        Arizona
                    's) most notorious and controversial public figures written by a grandson who
                    obviously loved and respected his grandfather very much. The author recognized the danger. In his
                    preface he writes: "I had a problem. I was his grandson, and, as such, he almost always
                    showed me his best side. Could I keep the sort of distance that an author needs from his subject?
                    Could I write of his faults, his weaknesses? Would others tell me what he was really like?"
                    (p. ix). For the most part, the answer to each of these questions turns out to be
                    "yes." And the result is a rather good book, a sympathetic, yet balanced account
                    of the life of a very interesting man.
            Russell Pulliam calls his grandfather "the last of the newspaper titans."
                    Considering the prominence of such current newspaper executives as Rupert Murdoch and Allen
                    Neuharth, this may seem an excessive claim. But what Pulliam means is that his grandfather was the
                    last of the old-time personal publishers like Pulitzer, Hearst, and Luce, who ruled like emperors
                    and who viewed their publications more as tools for personal power and ideology than as simple
                    business enterprises. He may be right. Before World War II Eugene Pulliam seemed to be developing
                    into the typical twentieth-century newspaper chain owner. He bought dozens of newspapers all over
                    the country, and he became a master of the arcane science of evaluating and financing newspaper
                    properties and making them pay. But after the war, Pulliam sold most of his papers and concentrated
                    his attention on his newspapers in two cities: 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Phoenix. (These papers were the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star and News and the 
                        Arizona
                    
                    Republic and Phoenix Gazette.) Far from hiding in the business
                    office, Pulliam remained an active, crusading editor until his death in 1975 at age eighty-four.
                    Many people hated his newspapers precisely because they were so personal in an age of impersonal
                    journalism. People denounced the front-page editorials, the one-sided news coverage, the
                    conservative, anti-big government ideology. But at least they always knew where the papers stood,
                    and who was in charge.
            The strengths of the book are what might be called journalistic strengths. Russell Pulliam is an
                    experienced journalist, and 
                    
                  EUGENE C. PULLIAM
                  
                  Courtesy 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star-News
                  
                in Publisher he has written a good piece of journalism. Most obvious is
                    the high quality of the interviewing. Pulliam interviewed more than 150 people and drew out of them
                    a wealth of details, anecdotes, and insights. Pulliam also read his grandfather's
                    newspapers carefully and does a good job of interweaving the interview material with the material
                    from the papers. He probably relies too much on long quotations, but in general the quotations are
                    well chosen. Another journalistic strength is balance. Pulliam portrays his grandfather
                    sympathetically, but he is not blind to his faults. The book describes in some detail
                    Pulliam's short temper, vanity, jealousy, and susceptibility to flattery, especially in his
                    latter years. For example, in a chapter on 
                        Vietnam
                     Russell concludes that Pulliam was simply conned by Lyndon Johnson, who knew exactly
                    how to feed the old man's ego.
            In a sense the weaknesses of the book are journalistic as well. The anecdotal style and heavy
                    dependence on people's recollections make for a certain superficiality and analytical
                    thinness. 
                    Publisher is neither a shrewd psychological biography nor an insightful scholarly
                    history. For example, we are not fully drawn into the mind of Eugene Pulliam. The author describes
                    Pulliam's views over the years, but his efforts to explain them are not always satisfying.
                    Too often he simply offers very general conjectures about the influence of Pulliam's early
                    religious training or his experience in the political turmoil of 1912. Pulliam's private
                    life is almost completely neglected. In a chapter on Pulliam's radio business, Russell
                    Pulliam suddenly says: "In the meantime, his family life had fallen apart" (p.
                    97). This is the first we have heard of it. The book also has weaknesses as political and journalism
                    history. Pulliam began his career as a Bull Moose Progressive, and the author makes some effort to
                    explain the substance and style of the Bull Moose movement. But in general there is little
                    historical context of the Progressive era and no thorough grounding in the historical literature.
                    The book is more a narrative account of political wars than an analytical political history.
                    Similarly, the book is thin as a history of modern American journalism. Russell Pulliam tells
                    fascinating stories about buying and selling newspapers, but he does not tell us enough about the
                    changing nature of the newspaper business and its relationship to a changing urban environment. In
                    short, the book lacks the kind of theoretical or analytical framework that marks the difference
                    between good journalism and good history.
            But the book is a valuable case study nonetheless. For journalism historians, it offers insights into
                    the relationship between a newspaper and the local urban power structure. In his attitudes about local public responsibility, for example, Eugene Pulliam, the hater of big
                    government, was a promoter of government activism. This suggests something important about the
                    nature of the modern newspaper business. For Indiana historians, the book offers interesting
                    accounts of famous and not-so-famous political battlers and backbiters.
            In the final analysis, Eugene Pulliam will probably not be remembered as either a brilliant publisher
                    or as an important political thinker. But he was a fascinating character who deserves a biography.
                    And he certainly would be pleased to know that his own grandson has written a good one.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                David Paul Nord
         
         
            
               The Best of Kin Hubbard: Abe Martin's Sayings and Wisecracks, Abe's
                        Neighbors, His Almanack, Comic Drawings. Edited and introducted by David S. Hawes. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1984. Pp. x, 144. Illustrations, notes, note on sources.
                    $12.95.)
            David S. Hawes recaptures the simpler humor of a simpler age in his delightful volume The Best of Kin Hubbard: Abe Martin's  Sayings and
                        Wisecracks. Frank McKinney (Kin) Hubbard, an 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News artist, created Abe as a mythical 
                        Brown County
                     resident when that area was still the epitome of rusticity. For twenty-six years,
                    beginning in 1904, Abe appeared daily to amuse his readers in contemporary Hoosier backwoods dialect
                    with a mixture of horse sense and nonsense that stuck pins in such sacred cows as politics, criminal
                    justice, feminism, pomp, status, and wealth or evoked a pragmatic philosophy regarding the work
                    ethic, family, entertainment, and other subjects.
            To articulate his philosophy, Hubbard created an unlikely cast of characters and set them down
                    alongside Abe in his mythical town of Bloom Center. There were Miss Germ Williams, Hon. ex-editor
                    Cale Fluhart, Miss Fawn Lippincut, Tilford Moots, Squire Marsh Swallow, and a host of others.
            Hawes deftly divides his work into two parts: Hubbard's biography; and quotations from his
                    daily column, his essays "Short Furrows," and his annual almanack. Hawes describes
                    Abe as "one of the most popular and profound cracker barrel philosophers this country has
                    ever known" (p. 3) and points out that he attracted millions of readers through more than
                    300 newspapers.
            
               Reproduced from Frank McKinney Hubbard, Short Furrows (
                            Indianapolis
                        , n.d.).
            
            To keep the chuckle level high, Hawes intersperses the biographical chapter with Martin quotes, such
                    as: "We'd all like to vote fer th' best man but he's never a
                    candidate" (p. 14); and "Married life hain't so bad after you git so you
                    kin eat the things your wife likes" (p. 19). Epigrams sometimes drove home Abe's
                    often barbed philosophy: "A woman's work is never
                    done—anymore"; and "Miss Fawn Lippincut sings with feelin' but
                    not fer others" (p. 27). In selecting the best of Kin Hubbard, Hawes has chosen witticisms
                    that remain applicable more than a half-century after they were uttered: "Some girls seem
                    t' buy a skirt on th' theory that they'll never set down" (p.
                    37); "Some fellers have a way 0' loafin' that makes 'em look
                    busy" (p. 135); "Figures don't lie, but you kin group 'em so
                    they'll answer the same purpose" (p. 140).
            By carefully sorting through Hubbard's writings and drawings, Hawes has come up with a slim,
                    easy to read, enjoyable  volume that promises many a chuckle to
                    anyone looking for light literary relaxation.
            
               
                  
                            Marion
                        . Ind. Richard S. Simons
         
         
            
               The Pokagans, 1683–1983: Catholic Potawatomi Indians of the 
                            St. Joseph
                         River Valley. By James A. Clifton. (
                        Lanham
                    , Md.: University Press of America, 1984. Pp. xiv, 166. Maps, illustration, notes,
                    bibliography. Clothbound, $22.75; paper bound, $11.50.)
            In this brief volume, James A. Clifton presents the struggle of the southwestern Michigan Potawatomi
                    to maintain their tribal identity and cultural cohesion. It particularly expands the ethnohistory of
                    those Potawatomi known as the Pokagan band, who in the 1833 Treaty of 
                        Chicago
                     councils negotiated the right to remain in southwestern Michigan after the other
                    Potawatomi bands were removed to a reservation west of 
                        Missouri
                    .
            Driven by Iroquois raids from the eastern shore of Lake Michigan by 1641, the Potawatomis took refuge
                    on the Dorr Peninsula. After the Iroquois war subsided, the Potawatomis expanded their range and
                    population, which rose fourfold to about eleven or twelve thousand people. One group of Potawatomis
                    settled in southwestern Michigan along the 
                        St. Joseph
                     River while others continued on to 
                        Detroit
                    , to the 
                        Wabash
                    , or to the Illinois River; still others remained along the western shore of Lake 
                        Michigan
                    . No paramount or principal chief ever controlled all of the Potawatomi villages. Each
                    village was economically, politically, and religiously self-sufficient. Tribal or village issues
                    were publicly debated and decisions were implemented by a leader (wkama) supported
                    by other political, social, and religious functionaries.
            Until 1760 the Potawatomis served the French as military allies and as collectors of furs and skins.
                    French fur traders married into prominent Potawatomi families producing offspring with skills useful
                    to the tribesmen, who were increasingly dependent upon European manufactured goods and weapons.
                    After the conclusion of the French and Indian War hegemony passed to Great Britain, which maintained
                    preponderant influence among the Potawatomis until the end of the War of 1812. Then and especially
                    after the completion of the 
                        Erie
                     Canal the Potawatomis faced farmers and settlers clamoring for Indian land. This threat
                    culminated in the Indiana Removal Act of 1830 and the 1833 Treaty of 
                        Chicago
                    , which permitted the Catholic Potawatomi to remain in 
                        Michigan
                    .
            
            Pokagan, baptized as Leopold late in life, does not emerge until 1832 as a significant leader of his
                    people. At the Treaty of 
                        Chicago
                     council in 1833 Pokagan steadfastly insisted that the Catholic 
                        St. Joseph
                     River Potawatomi be permitted to remain in 
                        Michigan
                    . His efforts were successful and his people and three other villages were not forced to
                    relocate. With money obtained at the Treaty of 
                        Chicago
                     and from the sale of small family reservations, Pokagan purchased and registered 874
                    acres jointly with his wife on Silver Creek just south of Niles, 
                        Michigan
                    . There he withstood all efforts to move the Catholic Potawatomi to 
                        Kansas
                    . Following Pokagan's death, the bands for decades were troubled by ineffective
                    leadership and factionalism. Nevertheless, the villagers possessed sufficient unity to press
                    successfully for unpaid annuities in 1843, 1866, and 1893.
            Not all of the Pokagans' ventures in recovering funds from the 
                        United States
                     were successful, but after World War II the Pokagans obtained a Michigan charter as a
                    nonprofit corporation named the Potawatomi Indians of Michigan and Indiana, Inc. Although
                    unrecognized by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Pokagans were awarded about 15 percent of the six
                    million dollars due the Potawatomis because of the unconscionable considerations received under
                    cession treaties from 1795 to 1833.
            Fuller Potawatomi histories are Clifton's, The 
                            Prairie
                         People (1977), and R. David Edmunds's, The
                    Potawatomi (1978). But for the 
                        St. Joseph
                     River Potawatomi, this volume ably dispels the romanticized versions of the lives of
                    Leopold Pokagan and his descendants. By combining anthropogical and historical methodologies,
                    Clifton has written a most satisfactory history of the 
                        St. Joseph
                     River Potawatomi.
            
               Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        
                Donald J. Berthrong
         
         
            
               Presidents above Party: The First American Presidency, 1789–1829. By
                    Ralph Ketcham. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture, 
                  Williamsburg, Virginia
               , 1984. Pp. xiv, 269. Notes, index. $24.95.)
            Ralph Ketcham's argument that the first six American presidents did not accept the
                    legitimacy of modern two-party conflict will not surprise readers familiar with the existing work on
                    classical conceptions of politics in eighteenth-century 
                        England
                     and America. His analysis of the overriding belief of literate Augustan Englishmen that
                    political factionalism and self-interestedness were signs of social decay, while admirable, is
                    hardly novel.  But Ketcham's intention is less to
                    stretch the boundaries of our knowledge of the eighteenth-century Anglo-American intellectual world
                    than to evaluate the specific influence of nonpartisan ideals on the evolution of the institution of
                    the presidency.
            Indeed, the greatest value of Presidents above Party is to remind us that the birth
                    of the American presidency was a protracted affair. 
                        Washington
                     and his immediate successors were not prescient. They had no models of a national
                    executive. Monarchy was clearly unacceptable in Revolutionary America, but what were the other
                    options? The Constitution was decidedly vague on presidential powers and responsibilities. Caught
                    between their intellectual heritage, which frowned on partisan activities as corrupt and dangerous
                    to the body politic, and the demands of governing a large, pluralistic, and expanding nation, the
                    first six presidents were thus forced to improvise. It has been said in defense of King George III
                    that he has been criticized for trying to rule like Queen Elizabeth when he was supposed to reign
                    like Queen Victoria. The American presidents from 
                        Washington
                     to John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams faced a similar dilemma—they believed they ought to govern like
                    Bolingbroke's idealized 
                        Patriot
                     King when the realities of their job increasingly demanded that they act like Andrew 
                        Jackson
                    .
            Ketcham's major quarrel is with political scientists and historians who have described the
                    first presidents as either hypocritical or ineffective party leaders. He would have us understand
                    their sometimes contradictory behavior within the context of their perceptions of their task.
                    Ketcham's work is too intellectual to capture the often rough world of politics in the
                    early republic; he concentrates on what men thought to the exclusion of what they did. Still, he has
                    accomplished well the goal he set for himself. Presidents above Party is a
                    synthetic and often insightful study of the governing assumptions of the men who established the
                    presidency as an integral part of American government.
            
               Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        
                Andrew R. L. Cayton
         
         
            
               Mormonism: The Story of a New Religious Tradition. By Jan Shipps. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1985. Pp. xviii, 211. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $14.50.)
            Jan Shipps combines the methods of social history, intellectual history, and the phenomenology of
                    religions to present a distinctive interpretation of Mormonism as an innovative religious movement.
                    Drawing on conceptual tools developed by  phenomenologists of
                    religion—sacred time, sacred space, ritual, the mythic, the prophetic, the
                    canonical—she strives, with considerable success, to interpret Mormon history not as an
                    idiosyncratic elaboration of the Christian story but as a recapitulation of the wider biblical
                    history, especially of the Old Testament narratives. Such an account allows her to clarify the
                    struggle between Mormons who viewed themselves primarily as expanding the earlier Christian
                    appropriation of 
                        Israel
                    's history and other Mormons, led by Brigham Young, who believed that the
                    revelation to Joseph Smith inaugurated a restoration and expansion of 
                        Israel
                    's story that stood in tension with the customary Christian appropriation.
            Her story is complex, but three themes illustrate her argument. First, her observation that
                    Smith's first vision in 1820 assumed increasing importance for Mormons after 1880 enables
                    her to analyze the theme of legitimation. Shipps concludes that in the early years the Book of Mormon served to legitimate Smith's claims; in later eras, his claims
                    served to legitimate the Book of Mormon. Second, she explores the theme of
                    restoration, finding in Mormon history the recapitulation of 
                        Israel
                    's sacred history. Because this sacred history did not correspond to the
                    chronology of nineteenth-century Mormonism, historians have sometimes overlooked the extent to which
                    Smith and his followers interpreted their movement as a reprise of the history of 
                        Israel
                    . By noting the patterns of replication, Shipps can reevaluate the external chronology;
                    her account, for example, accentuates the importance of the settlement in Kirtland between 1834 and
                    1838 because it was there that the movement established literal connections with 
                        Israel
                     by inaugurating plural marriage and the ritual of patriarchal blessing (through which
                    Saints learn their Hebraic genealogical lineage) and by erecting the first temple. Third, she
                    explores the development of canonical documents as an illuminating clue to the tensions between
                    Saints who located authority within the official structures of the Church and those who insisted on
                    the prior authority conveyed by familial lineage.
            Shipps has written a thoughtful, balanced account. Her struggles with the tensions between the
                    historical and phenomenological methods are instructive. The phenomenologists isolated continuing
                    patterns and structures—sacred space, visionary trance, prophecy, and
                    others—that are believed to appear in diverse regions and different times. The historians
                    have assumed that understanding a movement or event requires primarily that one locate it in its own
                    cultural and social setting. Earlier historians of Mormonism normally worked solely with historical
                    methods, which led them to accent the similarities between Mormonism  and nineteenth-century evangelical Protestantism. Shipps supplements
                    historical method with a phenomenology that emphasizes the continuities between Mormon experience
                    and patterns of religious activity that long antedated the nineteenth century. The methodological
                    issues are complex. Because Shipps explores them with insight and judgment her book should receive
                    careful attention from historians of religion in America.
            
               Emory University, 
                            Atlanta
                        
                E. Brooks Holifield
         
         
            
               To the Halls of the Montezumas: The Mexican War in the American Imagination. By
                    Robert W. Johannsen. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1985. Pp. ix, 363. Illustrations, map, notes, index.
                    $25.00.)
            Once the 
                        United States
                     reached the Civil War, Americans had difficulty seeing the Mexican War in its own
                    right. Given the events of 1846, 1848, and 1850 there seemed to follow naturally if not inexorably
                    the 
                        Kansas
                    -Nebraska Act, Bleeding 
                        Kansas
                    , the Harper's Ferry Raid, and worse. The Mexican War appeared as dress
                    rehearsal for notable individuals such as Ulysses S. Grant and Robert E. Lee, and more importantly
                    as catalyst and accelerator for the sanguinary struggle between North and South. This regrettable
                    myopia has been exacerbated in recent times by the ritual and tropistic spirit of cultural
                    confession whereby our clash with 
                        Mexico
                     has been depicted as disgraceful expansionism, pure and simple.
            Robert W. Johannsen gives us a salutary historical reminder and embroidery of what the Mexican War
                    meant to Americans in the setting of that war. He provides a spirited description and analysis of
                    the impact the struggle had upon American attitudes and American thought. Working by and large with
                    published sources such as books, newspapers, and magazines, Johannsen reconstructs the aura of pride
                    and exhilaration that swept most if not all of the land as Scott, Taylor, and others swept through
                    parts of 
                        Mexico
                    . Here it might be noted that Indiana readers will encounter illustrative figures from
                    their state's history such as General Joseph Lane and almost common soldier Benjamin F.
                    Scribner.
            The American imagination registered the war in various ways. For example, one chapter treats the
                    travel literature which came from the Mexican experience. Another depicts the more or less
                    self-conscious efforts at historical treatment that came during and just after the conflict.
                    Cultural historians may be especially interested in a chapter on "A
                    War-Literature" because of the rather concerted attention given there to Romanticism.
                    Perhaps  more significant if not more interesting are chapters
                    dealing with the emergence of national patriotism in a society dedicated to the proposition that
                    locality and state laid primary claim upon the citizen's loyalty. This analysis appears in
                    an early chapter titled "The True Spirit of 
                        Patriot
                     Virtue." Almost inevitably, such discussion turns late in the book to
                    "The War and the Republic," an examination of the contentions of those who did and
                    those who did not consider the war to be in keeping with republican institutions. In volume at
                    least, the former far exceeded the latter, but time would cast a different light upon the matter.
                    The last line of the book speaks of the untoward consequences, "unanticipated, baffling,
                    and fraught with peril for the republic" (p. 312). Unanticipated consequences stalk us
                    ever, and Johannsen provides an admirable depiction of the outlook of mid century America just
                    before the glow receded and the consequences came home to roost.
            
               University of 
                            Washington
                        , Seattle Lewis O. Saum
         
         
            
               Dark Lanterns: Secret Political Societies, Conspiracies, and Treason Trials in the
                        Civil War. By Frank L. Klement. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : Louisiana State University Press, 1984. Pp. xiii, 263. Notes, illustrations,
                    bibliographical essay, index. $25.00.)
            Frank L. Klement has devoted most of his illustrious career to the study and reinterpretation of
                    Civil War Copperheadism. His forays into this intriguing historiographical territory have led
                    consistently to conclusions that, in his own words, "run counter to the orthodox or
                    accepted interpretations" (p. xi). Now Klement focuses his revisionist glasses upon the
                    era's secret political societies, the conspiracies they allegedly hatched, and the treason
                    trials which government leaders used to portray all Democrats as disloyal traitors.
            Once again the Marquette University scholar has combined careful research with cogent argumentation
                    to counter historians' misrepresentations of 
                        Lincoln
                    's opponents. According to Klement, consensus historians, failing to
                    differentiate fact from fantasy, have elevated Republican wartime propaganda to the stature of
                    historical truth and have thus transformed conspiracy theories into "a part of accepted
                    history." This "marriage of myth and history" (p. 6) needs correction,
                    and Klement performs that task admirably.
            At the same time, he tells a fascinating story in a lively manner. Klement discusses four secret
                    societies: the Knights of  the Golden Circle, the Order of
                    American Knights, the Sons of Liberty, and the patriotic, 
                        Lincoln
                    -supporting Union League. He describes their origins, growth, and colorful personnel in
                    rich detail. He convincingly demonstrates that the three Copperhead groups were little more than
                    paper organizations based on "pretense rather than reality" (p. 108) and that they
                    were never viable threats to the Union war effort. In fact, they were small, ineffectual bands which
                    held no resemblance to the evil, conspiratorial, and gigantic monoliths depicted by Republican
                    propagandists. The latter image, created by Governors Richard Yates and Oliver P. Morton and their
                    appointed mythmakers, became the basis for exposes of supposed Copperhead plots to form a Northwest
                    Confederacy and to release rebel prisoners from 
                        Chicago
                    's Camp Douglas. By using fabricated tales and rigged court proceedings,
                    government spokesmen thus made "dark lanterns" into something they were not, and
                    generations of historians have gullibly swallowed the fantasy.
            Such a stark departure from standard historical interpretation demands more than adequate
                    documentation. Klement successfully meets that criterion through an ample use of primary sources, a
                    highly informative bibliographical essay, and an exceptionally helpful survey of the literature.
                    Likewise, his insights into Hoosier politics and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     treason trial are a boon to students of Indiana history. Unfortunately, though, Klement
                    mistakenly reports that Oliver P. Morton was elected to a four-year term as governor in 1860 (pp.
                    21, 94, 112), when in fact he was chosen as lieutenant-governor in the short-lived administration of
                    Henry Smith Lane. The author also overuses cliches and trite expressions, thus giving his narrative
                    an almost melodramatic effect that runs the risk of inadvertently creating a new pro-Copperhead
                    myth. Still, Dark Lanterns is a welcome, albeit controversial, addition to
                    Copperhead literature.
            
               
                  
                            Franklin
                         College of Indiana, 
                            Franklin
                        
                Lloyd A. Hunter
         
         
            
               Harvest of Grief: Grasshopper Plagues and Public Assistance in 
                            Minnesota
                        , 1873–78. By Annette Atkins. (
                        St. Paul
                    : Minnesota Historical Society Press, 1984. Pp. 147. Illustrations, maps, figures, note
                    on sources, notes, index. $12.95.)
            "The streets full of hoppers, the gardens, the very lawns eaten bare by them. Gloom over
                    everything." Minnesota politician and future Populist Ignatius Donnelly penned this
                    melancholy note in his diary on June 6, 1877—the final year of the devastating
                    "harvest of grief" described by Annette Atkins.
            
            Rocky Mountain locusts ravaged the Upper Midwest between 1873 and 1878, destroying an estimated
                    twenty-five million bushels of grain in Minnesota alone. While Atkins documents these rampages, her
                    focus is on how farmers and government responded to the grasshoppers. For Atkins these responses are
                    best understood in the context of threats to traditional American values. The two core values
                    threatened were belief in the farmer's nobility and the work ethic. Both were already
                    battered by modern industrial capitalism with its celebration of money and urban life, and the
                    grasshopper plagues undercut these traditional values even further. Traditionally, it was thought
                    that noble farmers would subvert their moral autonomy by begging for public charity and that
                    hard-working farmers would be justly rewarded and not need public or private assistance.
                    Unfortunately, the grasshoppers left farmers few alternatives but to seek assistance. As Atkins
                    notes, this was a double bind: "a person who could bring himself to seek aid would lack the
                    moral qualities that made him ‘worthy’ of assistance. Only those who refused
                    to seek public aid were worthy of help, because they had the virtues, the pride, and the integrity
                    to be independent" (p. 84).
            After outlining these traditional values and describing the cycle of grasshopper infestation, Atkins
                    analyzes varying responses to the plagues of the farmers and of counties, state, and federal
                    government. While some individuals, notably former Governor Henry Hastings Sibley and Brigadier
                    General E. O. C. Ord, viewed the farmers as victims of a natural disaster, virtually everyone else
                    analyzed by Atkins imprisoned farmers in the double bind of the disintegrating traditional values
                    described above. They focused on the moral worth of the farmers, categorizing them as unworthy
                    paupers, not victims. Governor John Pillsbury and the 1876 "Grasshopper"
                    legislature seem to have been particularly stern toward and suspicious of the farmers.
            Atkins's Harvest of Grief is a well-written and clearly organized account
                    of the grasshopper plagues in Minnesota and of the generally ineffective measures of public relief
                    in response to them. As a history of this agricultural crisis, it has few shortcomings. The only
                    significant one is Atkins's failure to discuss Minnesotans who placed the farmers'
                    woes in the larger context of industrial capitalism. Ignatius Donnelly, for example, argued that
                    farmers could expect no relief while they continued to vote for those devoted to "Wall
                    Street. . . and the great work of founding a moneyed aristocracy in America" (Anti-Monopolist, August 24, 1876).
            There are also two larger issues Atkins could have addressed. First, she neglects the possible
                    effects of the Panic of  1873 on responses to the
                    farmers' calls for relief. Perhaps Governor Pillsbury and the 1876 legislature were less
                    charitable simply because the economy was continuing to collapse. Second, while the book seems to
                    promise an examination of the American value system similar to Daniel Rodgers' The Work Ethic in Industrial America, Atkins simply describes how the system affeded the
                    actors in this situation without shedding any new light on the nature of American values. Perhaps
                    the source material simply was not there, or perhaps this was beyond her intentions. Despite these
                    omissions, Atkins's Harvest of Grief is an important contribution to the
                    literature on rural life and on social welfare in America.
            
               
                  
                            North Dakota
                         State University, Fargo Larry R. Peterson
         
         
            
               Historical Atlas of the Outlaw West. By Richardson Patterson. (Boulder, Colo.:
                    Johnson Books, 1985. Pp. vi, 232. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Paperbound,
                    $14.95).
            This book makes no pretensions of being anything but a popular work for western buffs. If the reader
                    is an armchair traveler or one who follows the open road, this book will be of interest.
            Briefly, the work treats the outlaw doings in eighteen western states (
                        Alaska
                     and 
                        North Dakota
                     are excluded), and each is given its own section within which there are subheadings
                    dealing with localities of that state that are linked to some noted nineteenth-century or early
                    twentieth-century criminal activity. The material is detailed and interestingly written.
                    Furthermore, sources are given for each state. Each section contains a full page map of the state in
                    the nineteenth century. Numerous smaller maps and contemporary photographs add to the interest of
                    the book. The larger state maps, however, are difficult to read. A suggestion to help orient the
                    reader is to compare the book's state maps with maps of present-day highway patterns. In
                    general, the format is very attractive.
            Richardson Patterson has achieved that which he has wished: a unique book with popular appeal for
                    followers of the Wild West. Thanks to Patterson it will be easier to follow.
            
               Brunswick Junior College, Brunswick, Ga. Ronald H. Ridgley
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Chicago
                         and the American Literary Imagination, 1880–1920. By Carl S. Smith. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1984. Pp. xiv, 232. Illustrations, appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    Paperbound, $8.95.)
            Each word in Carl Smith's title is telling. He has not written a history of 
                        Chicago
                     literature but rather a more interesting study of the impact of 
                        Chicago
                     on the imagination of writers in the crucial years 1880–1920. What did 
                        Chicago
                     mean to writers? By examining not only works of fiction but also autobiography, travel
                    books, guidebooks, histories, and muckraking criticism, Smith defines literature broadly and shows
                    how a wide range of writers portrayed life in this quintessentially American city.
            He is particularly interested in texts which "directly and indirectly discussed the
                    relationship of literature, art, and urban life" (pp. xi-xii). Part One describes how 
                        Chicago
                     writers, in struggling for words to express their response to the industrial city,
                    created works in which an artist protagonist seeks a place in raw 
                        Chicago
                    , usually unsuccessfully. These writers thereby revealed the tension that they
                    themselves experienced in both living in 
                        Chicago
                     and trying to write about it. After examining Jane Addams's plea for an
                    integration of life and art, Smith turns to works by E. P. Roe, Henry Blake Fuller, Robert Herrick,
                    and Will Payne; all but Roe were less optimistic than Addams that art could survive in materialistic 
                        Chicago
                    .
            If male artists fail, women who aspire to culture fare no better, whether as artists themselves or as
                    consumers of art. Either they retreat to domesticity or, like Theodore Dreiser's Carrie
                    Meeber, they become victims of their own drive to succeed. Only Willa Cather's Thea
                    Kronburg is able to use her art to transcend society. No artist can reform it.
            In the final and best section of Part One, Smith shows how Frank Norris, Dreiser, and Sherwood
                    Anderson attempted to portray businessmen as artists. He blames their failure to convince readers
                    that Jadwin, Cowperwood, or McPherson are artist financiers on their own ambivalence and confusion
                    in regard to the businessman in 
                        Chicago
                    .
            Part Two looks at three major motifs in 
                        Chicago
                     literature— the railroad, the new buildings (especially skyscrapers), and
                    the stockyards—and analyzes the ways these were used to convey the experience of living
                    in 
                        Chicago
                    . Each of these multidisciplinary studies is interesting (although the chapter on
                    railroads seems poorly organized), but they show up the main problem with the book: each chapter
                    seems a discreet essay, with little connection to others except thematically. The introduction
                    provides an excellent  overview and the conclusion a proper
                    summation, but the blocks between are without mortar. One wishes that the analysis were spread
                    throughout rather than concentrated so entirely at either end of this otherwise striking and
                    worthwhile book. Still, it is highly recommended not just to students of literature but also to
                    urban historians.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Cynthia D. Kinnard
         
         
            
               The Civil Works Administration, 1933–1934: The Business of Emergency
                        Employment in the New Deal. By Bonnie Fox Schwartz. (
                        Princeton
                    : 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1984. Pp. xviii, 300. Tables, notes, note on sources, index.
                    $28.50.)
            Bonnie Fox Schwartz's study is a well-researched and written account of an important, but
                    often overlooked, New Deal agency. Created after the initial legislative surge of
                    Roosevelt's first one hundred days and overshadowed by the highly publicized Public Works
                    and Works Progress administrations, this short-lived agency has received little treatment from
                    historians. But the CWA compiled an impressive record. At its peak it employed over four million
                    workers and pumped an estimated one billion dollars of purchasing power into the sagging economy.
                    Workers built 40,000 schools, 500,000 miles of roads, and thousands of hospitals and playgrounds.
                    Created in November, 1933, and demobilized in the spring of 1934, the CWA helped millions of
                    unemployed weather the severe winter months.
            Schwartz's work consists of nine chapters dealing with such topics as the origin and
                    structure of the CWA program, the conflict between social workers and corporate liberals for control
                    of the agency, the CWA in the states, labor, women, and CWA projects for white collar and
                    professional workers. Schwartz contends that the CWA was the most efficient and best run of all New
                    Deal relief agencies. Much of this success she attributes to corporate liberals: engineers, economic
                    planners, and industrial managers who temporarily supplanted social workers and ran the CWA as an
                    efficient business. The CWA paid living wages rather than security wages and provided meaningful
                    public employment rather than charitable make-work. She feels the management techniques employed by
                    these technicians created an efficient and effective relief agency that has been unequaled by any
                    government relief program in the last fifty years.
            While different in many respects, the CWA shared some of the same problems of other New Deal relief
                    agencies. Conflict with state political leaders over control of appointments, internal
                    disputes—such as those between social workers and corporate  liberals for control of the program—, and charges of
                    favoritism and corruption were common to most New Deal programs, including the CWA. Still, it was
                    primarily Roosevelt's concern for the program's rising cost that led the President
                    to terminate the agency.
            Schwartz's study adds to the growing body of scholarship on corporate liberalism. Her
                    conclusions about the contribution made to the CWA by corporate liberals are convincing. Her
                    argument that the CWA stands as the most effective model for providing work relief of any government
                    program in the last fifty years is more debatable. CWA was short lived and expensive, and some
                    projects were of poor quality and lacked adequate supervision. Moreover, despite providing public
                    employment rather than charitable make-work, it was a program funded solely by the government. This
                    point alone would cause many today to debate its worthiness.
            Nonetheless, the significance of the Civil Works Administration cannot be denied. Schwartz's
                    conclusions are thought provoking, and her work, based on a wide variety of government records and
                    other primary and secondary sources, is a worthwhile addition to the literature of the New Deal.
            
               University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame Thomas T. Spencer
         
         
            
               Democratic Vistas: Post Offices and Public Art in the New Deal. By Marlene Park
                    and Gerald E. Markowitz. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Temple University Press, 1984. Pp. xx, 247. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    appendix, index. $37.95.)
            When Harry Hopkins included programs for artists among the first activities funded by the Federal
                    Emergency Relief Administration in 1933, he said: "Hell! They've got to eat just
                    like other people." Little did he realize an offshoot of his efforts would become the
                    largest public art collection in the country— murals in hundreds of post office lobbies
                    in the forty-eight contiguous states.
            In 1934, Henry Morgenthau, Jr., secretary of the treasury, established the Section of Painting and
                    Sculpture with the goal of securing "suitable art work of the best quality for the
                    embellishment of public buildings." From then until its demise in 1943 the Section held
                    anonymous competitions for mural commissions in cities from Calexico, 
                        California
                    , to Kennebunk Port, 
                        Maine
                    , and from Anacortes, 
                        Washington
                    , to Miami, 
                        Florida
                    .
            Marlene Park and Gerald E. Markowitz provide a thorough and sympathetic study of the work of the
                    Section, perhaps the  least known of all the New Deal art
                    agencies. A conservative bureaucracy, the Section kept a low profile to avoid the political
                    controversy associated with the more flamboyant New Deal arts programs and did not attempt to build
                    a wide base of support. "But if the Section did not build a constituency it did leave a
                    rich legacy of work for all Americans" (p. 171). That work included 1,400 murals
                    commissioned for over 1,000 cities and towns in a decade. All this was accomplished by a staff of
                    nineteen, which included two photographers, a carpenter, and secretaries.
            Chapter one of Democratic Vistas provides background material which places the
                    Section within the context of the New Deal, while chapter two outlines the public procedures,
                    competitions, and pressures from local groups involved in the mural projects. Chapters three through
                    five are devoted to the three major themes portrayed in the murals: historical events, such as town
                    founders and battles; contemporary events, such as local farms, landscapes, and cityscapes; and
                    regionalism, the content associated with New 
                        England
                    , the Middle Atlantic states, the South, the West, and the Midwest. Chapter seven
                    contains an excellent discussion of representationalist art as a function of the 1930s. The authors
                    use all the typical categories of the time— Realist, Social Realist, Regionalist, Social
                    Surrealist or Magic Realist, Western, Native American, and Academic—in writing their
                    useful and complete overview of American art as seen in post office murals.
            During the 1930s and over the years since many have criticized the Section's program because
                    of its conservativism, but as the authors say: "Whatever the virtues of individual murals
                    or sculptures, its administrators, artists and public helped place art in the context of daily
                    life" (p. 181).
            
               Purdue University Calumet, 
                            Hammond
                        
                John C. Carlisle
         
         
            
               Black 
                            Milwaukee
                        : The Making of an Industrial Proletariat, 1915–1945. By Joe William
                    Trotter, Jr. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1985. Pp. xvii, 302. Tables, maps, notes, illustrations,
                    appendixes, bibliographical essay, index. $24.95.)
            Most historians of the urban black experience in this century have focused on the formation of
                    ghettos and related aspects of race relations. In Black 
                            Milwaukee
                        
               , Joe William Trotter, Jr., seeks to complement the ghetto model by analyzing
                    how 
                        Milwaukee
                    's black working class was formed—a process of
                    "proletarianization" that involved "complex interactions of racial and
                    class consciousness and behavior" (p. xi). He also discusses black  responses to oppression and disunity within the black community.
            Industrial expansion and black migration from the deep South altered the size and structure of 
                        Milwaukee
                    's black community after World War I. Trotter writes that the city's
                    980 blacks in 1910 contained "an old elite dependent upon white patronage and an emerging
                    new elite based upon black support" (pp. 27–28). Between 1915 and 1932 race
                    discrimination forced blacks into ghettos and into low-paying, unskilled jobs in the iron and steel,
                    meat packing, construction, and tanning industries. While the new factory jobs entailed "a
                    shift upward" (p. xii) in wages and status for former sharecroppers, common laborers, and
                    service workers, industrial capitalism and racism limited how far—and
                    where—black workers could go.
            By 1930 the city's 7,500 blacks were divided into a sizeable working class and a small
                    middle class. Some Afro-Americans in the 1920s dreamed of creating a self-sufficient "Black
                    Metropolis," but the Depression turned such dreams to dust. On the eve of World War 11,
                    29.3 percent of 
                        Milwaukee
                    's black males were unemployed. Most white workers and their unions, as well as
                    white employers, kept blacks outside factory gates. While middle-class blacks often did aid black
                    workers, united black political efforts usually faltered because of different black class interests.
                    Trotter claims that only the CIO unions, World War II labor shortages, federal fair employment
                    regulations, and "the vigorous socioeconomic and political efforts of blacks on their own
                    behalf" (pp. 147–148) helped to improve conditions. But even so, says Trotter,
                    blacks remained proletarians.
            The book has many strengths and some flaws. Unlike some other historians, Trotter devotes much
                    attention to black women workers and deftly analyzes the divisions among blacks. In a final chapter
                    he compares the experiences of 
                        Milwaukee
                    's Afro Americans to those of blacks in other cities.
            The book's most serious problem stems from Trotter's proletarian framework. Trotter
                    says that "a more consolidated Afro American proletariat emerged by 1945" (p.
                    147), but a distinct black working-class consciousness and culture does not emerge from the book to
                    support his thesis. How did black working-class culture and interests differ from the culture and
                    interests of white classes in those years? Trotter suggests that black institutions played important
                    roles throughout the period, but we do not see black workers in church, in families, and at work.
                    How did religion, family relationships, and work patterns help shape black working-class life?
                    Trotter tells us little about these things. Given Trotter's insistence that 
                        Milwaukee
                    's "black industrial working 
                    class was…active in its own making" (p. 2761, readers might appreciate a fuller
                    array of evidence about the texture of the black working-class presence. Still, there is much to
                    learn from this otherwise interesting book.
            
               State Historical Society of 
                     Wisconsin,
                                Madison
                  
                Michael A. Gordon
         
         
            
               Shaping an American Institution: Robert E. Wood and Sears, Roebuck. By James C.
                    Worthy. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1984. Pp. xx, 299. Illustrations, tables, note on
                    sources, notes, bibliography, index. $18.95.)
            James C. Worthy, a former vice-president under Robert E. Wood at Sears, and now a professor of
                    management at Northwestern University, has drawn together the management philosophies of General
                    Wood. Worthy suggests that while Wood's successful business strategies spurred Sears into
                    the forefront of retail trade in the 1920s and 1930s and again after World War 11, those strategies
                    were not adapted to meet changing conditions after Wood retired in 1954. Admittedly,
                    Worthy's biography (based largely on his personal notes and secondary sources) of a man he
                    admired tends toward puffery. Nonetheless, the reader who recognizes the obvious bias and questions
                    the more sweeping generalizations can gain some important insights into the life of a successful
                    corporate entrepreneur.
            Robert Wood held a breadth of knowledge (and an interest in statistics) that led him to recognize in
                    the 1910s that the mailorder catalog market, primarily made up of farmers, was shrinking and that a
                    new market, consisting of urban dwellers, was materializing. Having failed to persuade Montgomery
                    Ward of the wisdom of his ideas, Wood moved to Sears in 1924 and began to fashion a merger of the
                    mail-order business and retail sales. Within his business philosophy, moreover, Wood reversed the
                    usual capitalistic perspective. The company, he believed, should serve the customer first, the
                    employee second, the community third, and lastly, the stockholders. The assumption was clear: if the
                    first three groups were well-served, then the fourth would reap benefits as well. Meanwhile, Wood
                    altered Sears's buying and selling strategies. Instead of negotiating down a list price,
                    Sears buyers worked closely with the suppliers to ascertain the costs of raw materials and of
                    production, and then added a profit. Wood also sought to sell products that the customer desired,
                    not just what was available from the suppliers.
            Perhaps the most interesting of Wood's strategies was the way in which he encouraged Sears
                    employees. He built upon a  foundation that Julius Rosenwald had
                    established in 1916, the Profit Sharing and Pension plan, to sustain loyalty and longevity in
                    employment. Wood also focused company strategies to promote the personal growth of store managers.
                    Using a "flat" organizational structure, Wood gave the store manager autonomy to
                    solve problems without corporate interference. Sears produced competent managers, but the
                    inner-directed program did not create another Robert Wood. Ironically, then, Wood's
                    entrepreneurial and management strategies held a fatal flaw: they did not encourage the breadth of
                    vision necessary to adapt the firm to sweeping changes in the 1950s and 1960s.
            This volume exposes numerous opportunities for further research. For example, Wood's
                    military experience may have influenced his business strategies more than Worthy admits, and studies
                    of Sears's expansion into Latin America after World War II might reveal more comparative
                    analyses for international business history.
            
               The Ohio State University, 
                            Columbus
                        
                William R. Childs
         
         
            
               Kentucky Place Names. By Robert M. Rennick. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1984. Pp. xxiv, 375. Endmaps, notes, references. $30.00.)
            With the publication of Robert Rennick's Kentucky Place Names, Kentucky
                    became the thirty-third state to have a state place name dictionary or similar study of its place
                    names. Indiana and five other midwestern states are members of this group, which has grown at a
                    glacial rate for most of the past fifty years but has picked up speed since about 1970, when a
                    rebirth of interest in such work occurred.
            Rennick initiated his research on Kentucky place names in 1971, which happens to be the year he took
                    part in one of a series of annual place name conferences held at Indiana State University. Such an
                    extended period of attention and work have borne fruit, for Kentucky Place Names
                    is a substantial and attractive book, one that should be particularly interesting to people from
                    states in whose settlement Kentuckians and their place names had a significant part. Since Kentucky Place Names is a 2,000 entry dictionary, one can open it to any page and
                    find something of interest; but the introduction must be read if one is to comprehend Rennicks point
                    of view and to account for the volume's strengths and weaknesses.
            Despite Rennick's role as coordinator of the Kentucky Place Name Survey, his book provides
                    little handy information for comparative purposes. Rennick eschews a system of classification  on grounds that such schemes are "obviously heuristic
                    or even a priori" (p. xx) and refers readers to George Stewart's American Place Names, though heeding this advice would provide no compensating help. As a
                    result, there is no treatment of the relative incidence of eastern transfer names, names for foreign
                    places and from foreign languages, nationalistic names, inspirational names, Biblical names, names
                    tied to folk legends, and so on. The ties that the place names of Kentucky have with its settlement
                    history and culture are left almost entirely to the reader to establish for himself, entry by entry.
            The principal exception involves Indian-white relations. Of particular interest is Rennick's
                    conclusion that there are virtually no Indian names in the state, i.e., names given by Indians.
                    According to his analysis, though he does not mention them specifically, the ten or so
                    Indian-appearing names that one can ferret out of the corpus are "Indian-sounding names . .
                    . given by white settlers for a number of reasons" (p. xxi). This interpretation leaves no
                    room between perceived pristine Indian forms, on the one hand, and pseudo-Indian forms, on the
                    other. Perhaps because of its relative unfamiliarity and complexity, Rennick takes Eskippakithiki to be the one genuine Indian name and considers the other names, including
                        Oneida and Osceola, to be given by whites, though they must
                    all or nearly all be Indian names more or less reshaped to suit white settlers' linguistic
                    ways. An example of such reshaping in the Indiana name cover is 
                        
                            Wabash
                        
                    , whose Miami form was Wah-bah-shik-ki or Wah-pah shik-ki.
            Names of streams may be another matter (Kentucky Place Names contains none), but
                    Rennick is probably right in his contention that Indian-derived settlement names in the state are
                    few, since Kentucky was not a place of extended cultural exchanges between the two races. Recent
                    research on the patterning of place names in Indiana may be pertinent here. Very few of the fifty or
                    so towns with sure or probable Indian names are located in southern Indiana; almost all are located
                    above the fortieth parallel and are most prevalent where Indians lived and stayed well into the
                    pioneer period. If southern Indiana generally was not attractive or hospitable to the tribes, it
                    should not be surprising that Kentucky was not.
            While Kentucky Place Names lacks the overview and coherence that the use of place
                    name categories could have given it, the book does provide phonetic representations of the names, a
                    desirable feature. Unfortunately, however, of all of the information contained in each entry,
                    including the most likely accounts of the naming, the pronunciation item is probably the  least trustworthy and least useful. Rennick uses an outmoded,
                    complicated, and over-differentiated set of symbols to indicate. pronunciations. The resulting
                    transcriptions are not infrequently at odds with living Kentucky speech and Linguistic Atlas field
                    records.
            But the lack of a good overview of the names and the inadequacy of the pronunciation data do not
                    offset the creditable job that Rennick has done in providing an account of the naming of Kentucky
                    places and in conveying an impression of Kentucky settlements as they were and as they are today.
                    Rennicks firsthand knowledge of every corner of the state helps to give his work a solidness that
                    specialists and general readers alike will find compelling.
            
               Indiana State University, 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                Marvin Carmony
         
         
            
               The Winning Tradition: A History of Kentucky Wildcat Basketball. By Bert Nelli. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1984. Pp. x, [1641. Illustrations, tables, bibliographical note, index.
                    $19.50.)
            At the outset it should be noted that objectivity is difficult to come by for a true-blue, Big Red
                    basketball fan who admits to having two favorite teams. One is Indiana University. The other is
                    whomever Kentucky is playing at the time. Still, we can agree that Bert Nelli, of 
                        Kentucky
                    's Department of History, has put together an attractive book, enhanced by
                    full-color photographs of the skilled and agile athletes who have starred for the Wildcats through
                    the years. Nelli interviewed many of these former players and provides quotations from their
                    sometimes frank, but mostly adulatory, appraisals of Adolph Rupp and Joe B. Hall. Understandably,
                    the book is written for Wildcat fans who, with stars in their eyes, take seriously the legends and
                    traditions of basketball in 
                        Lexington
                    . Yet Nelli does expose the seamier side—Rupp's refusal for forty
                    years to allow a black on his team; the point-shaving scandal of the 1950s. He cites Hall's
                    critics—fans and sports reporters who charged that the head coach did not get
                    "the best and the most" from his talented players. He recruited well, but unlike
                    Bob Knight at Indiana he was not a great teacher. His players did not improve after they came to 
                        Lexington
                    . Unfortunately, Hall lived most of his adult life—even after his predecessor
                    was dead—in the shadow of Rupp.
            In any event, by 1985 Hall had concluded that a six-figure income did not compensate for the agonies
                    and pressures of big time basketball. Whether his successor, Eddie Sutton, will become a
                    "legend in his own right" remains to be seen, and to be  dealt with, perhaps, after a few years in yet another survey of Wildcat
                    basketball. If so, we can hope that the author will consider more serious and thought-provoking
                    themes. What is the role of this popular sport in a state's society? Does it provide a
                    "togetherness" that links those outside the university community with the students
                    and faculty in 
                        Lexington
                    ? Can success in basketball be translated into a more favorable consideration of the
                    university in the state legislature? For an outsider, reading this narrative account of the
                    successes and vicissitudes of Kentucky basketball becomes as tedious as pouring over some other
                    family's album of baby pictures—however beautiful the child might be.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Robert E. Quirk
         
         
            
               Time Machines: The World of Living History. By Jay Anderson. (
                        Nashville
                    : American Association for State and Local History, 1984. Pp. 217. Notes, illustrations,
                    sources and resources, index. $19.95.)
            Time travel, whether accomplished through reading, research, or historical reenactments, is a means
                    by which humans seek their identities and relationships with others in the course of time. Using
                    this premise, Jay Anderson transports his readers through his own "time machine"
                    in the first monograph to examine the "living history" movement and the assorted
                    methods by which its participants share in past human experiences through firsthand exposure.
            Anderson chronicles the emergence of living history, beginning with Skansen, 
                        Sweden
                    's open-air museum, which spawned hundreds of regionally and culturally diverse
                    museums. He explains how these museums have changed from filiopietistic showcases and antiquarian
                    repositories to historical models that attempt to simulate life in another time and to create
                    facsimiles of entire local or regional, material as well as social, cultures. Living history
                    breathes life into static artifacts and emphasizes the world of ordinary people in an effort to
                    interpret the seemingly unrecoverable past. By placing both people and objects in functional
                    contexts, living history sites provoke visitors to think and to analyze their own contemporary
                    culture, thereby drawing them into a "cross-cultural comparison" (p. 52).
            An essential part of living history, notes Anderson, is "experimental archaeology,"
                    or "imitative experiments" (p. 87) that replicate original processes, such as
                    cooking, building, or black smithing, in order to test theories of past cultural behavior. Likewise,
                    many reenactment and other "history buff" groups,  while often perceived as "playing with history,"
                    actually seek to preserve vanishing arts and a fading folklife. Consequently, these forms of
                    "experimentation may be a useful method of generating new data" (p. 177),
                    contributing to examinations of historical hypotheses regarding past life and cultures. This
                    analysis of process, combined with data on human values and behavior, creates a powerful educational
                    tool, allowing one to become submerged deeper "into the stream of life at some point in the
                    past" (p. 118).
            Throughout his book Anderson successfully demonstrates that living history museums are not amusement
                    parks, but examples of the "new" social history, dedicated to a holistic
                    preservation of the past. They are living laboratories which examine the lives of ordinary people,
                    recreate cultural landscapes, provide arenas for interdisciplinary analyses, and preserve cultural
                    landmarks for future generations. While often considered to be escapism, living history is, to
                    Anderson, a valuable historical interpretive tool which transcends the romantic, nostalgic images of
                    history to offer participants the opportunity "to steep themselves in the historical
                    context of a particular place and time" in order "to come to understand,
                    appreciate, and feel the life of the people who once lived there and then" (p. 192).
            
               Conner 
                            Prairie
                         Pioneer Settlement, 
                            Noblesville
                        , Ind. David G. Vanderstel
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Five Senses, Four Seasons. By Harris L. Hitt. (
                        Muncie
                    , Ind.: Janevar Publishing Company, 1984. Pp. 127. Illustrations. $11.95.)
                    This book contains Harris L. Hitt's boyhood remembrances of everyday life in Casey, 
                        Illinois
                     (thirty-two miles southwest of 
                        Terre Haute
                    ), from about 1917 to the early 1930s. Hitt is a retired microbiologist who writes on
                    various medical subjects and the history of the Southwest. His remembrances are divided into forty
                    topical chapters ranging from two to six pages in length. His topics include frog gigging, mushroom
                    hunting, family reunions, chautauquas, Civil War veterans, shopping trips to 
                        Terre Haute
                     by train, and various farming activities. The social historian will find little of
                    interest since Hitt's remembrances are often personal and his descriptions of everyday life
                    in Casey are not particularly detailed or perspicacious. Mushroom hunters will note that he fails to
                    distinguish between the luscious yellow morel and the more mundane gray morel and that he omits the
                    tasty pintop from his discussion altogether. This book may be ordered from Janevar Publishing
                    Company, R.R. 11, Box 129, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana 47302. Thomas E. Rodgers, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               Dutch Calvinsim in Modern America: A History of a Conservative Subculture. By James
                    D. Bratt. (Grand Rapids, Mich.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1984. Pp. xiv, 329.
                    Illustrations, appendix, notes, selected bibliography, index. Paperbound, $13.95.) For
                    James D. Bratt, the religion of Dutch Americans has been crucial in shaping their unique subculture
                    and in influencing the often halting course of their Americanization from the late nineteenth
                    century to the present. As this book makes clear, the upper Midwest, particularly 
                        Michigan
                    , has been the intellectual and spiritual center of the Dutch reformed tradition. Bratt
                    provides a detailed intellectual history, identifying four major "mentalities" of
                    Dutch immigrants and their descendants. Some general readers may be put off by the book's
                    heavy dose of theological terminology; however, Bratt's otherwise clear prose, solid
                    research, and remarkable insight make Dutch Calvinism in Modern America a
                    significant scholarly work. Amy C. Schutt, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
