
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 80, Issue 2, pages 93-192. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:80+issue:2+year:1984&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Pride, Profits, and Politics:
            Indiana and the Columbian Exposition of 1893
            Frank A. Cassell and Marguerite E. Cassell∗
            
            By the millions they came to see the greatest of all world's fairs. By train and by
                    steamship, from every state and territory and from over a hundred nations and colonies, the great
                    crowd traveled to 
                        Chicago
                    's 
                        Jackson
                     Park. Between May 1 and the end of October, 1893, over twenty-eight million people
                    visited the splendid white palaces of the World's Columbian Exposition. They saw buildings
                    of unprecedented size and beauty, and they walked among gardens, lawns, and lagoons representing the
                    highest achievement of the landscape architect. The exhibits—more than one hundred sixty
                    thousand in number—summarized the material achievements of western civilization at the
                    end of the nineteenth century. Huge engines and powerful dynamos reflected the main emphasis of this
                    age of energy, but some of the greatest art the world had produced was also on display together with
                    evidences of educational progress.
            
               
                        Chicago
                    's world's fair surpassed all of its predecessors in size, cost, and
                    impact. It was a stunning triumph for the metropolis that a scant twenty years earlier lay in ashes. 
                        Chicago
                    's brashness and wealth made the Columbian Exposition possible, but it took the
                    active involvement of people throughout America and the world to create a fair so impressive that it
                    still awes those who study it. Much has been written about Daniel Burnham, John Wellborn Root,
                    Augustus Saint Gaudens, Frederick Law Olmsted, and the other architects, artists, and sculptors who
                    created that 
                  
                     ∗ Frank A. Cassell is associate professor and chairman of
                            the Department of History at the University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            -
                                Milwaukee
                            . Marguerite E. Cassell of Winnetka, 
                                Illinois
                            , is a native of 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, and has spent over a decade conducting research into the
                            World's Columbian Exposition. All the photographs for this article were provided
                            courtesy of the authors.
               
                     marvelous integrated ensemble known as the White City. Little,
                    however, has been said about the involvement of the various American states and territories with the
                        fair.1
            
            As a group, the forty-four states and territories represented at the fair spent over four million
                    dollars. Virtually every state and territory established a world's fair commission to plan,
                    collect, arrange, install, and manage its exhibits. Many erected buildings at 
                        Jackson
                     Park which served as clubhouses for their citizens and as display areas for art,
                    educational, historical, and natural resource exhibits.
            Political leaders and citizens in the states and territories supported world's fair
                    activities for a variety of reasons. Some felt it was the patriotic thing to do; others sought to
                    avoid the embarrassment of a poor showing at 
                        Chicago
                     by their state in comparison with others. Nearly everyone hoped that handsome and
                    expensive displays of their states' products and resources would stimulate business,
                    attract capital, and encourage immigration. In different combinations, profit, patriotism, and local
                    pride spurred vigorous competition among the states and territories. For two years before the
                    exposition gates opened, local world's fair boards worked hard to interest their fellow
                    citizens in the enterprise and to encourage businessmen to exhibit their products. In addition, the
                    boards arranged for state-sponsored exhibits in agriculture, forestry, mines and mining, and other
                    departments of the fair.2
            
            Without the work of those state and territorial boards, the exposition could not have succeeded.
                    Their activity accounted for a substantial portion of the exhibits gracing the display halls at 
                        Jackson
                     Park. Of equal importance, the local world's fair boards helped encourage
                    attendance at the fair. The publicity they generated kept the fair before the public. Moreover, the
                    thousands who contributed money or exhibits for the exposition had a personal motive for attending
                    the event. Their patronage proved essential to the fair, which constantly teetered on the edge of
                    financial disaster.3
            
            
               
                  1 There are two recent histories of the fair. R. Reid Badger, The Great American Fair: The World's Columbian Exposition and American
                        Culture (
                            Chicago
                        , 1980); and David F. Burg, 
                     
                                Chicago
                            's White City of 1893 (
                            Lexington
                        , Ky., 1976). Stanley Applebaum, The 
                                Chicago
                             World's Fair of 1893 (
                            New York
                        , 1980), is primarily a photographic record of the exposition but also contains a
                        brief historical essay.
               
                  2 World's Columbian Exposition Records, Final Report of the
                        President, Part III, Government Acts, RG 43 (National Archives, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.).
               
                  3 Frank A. Cassell and Marguerite E. Cassell, "The White City in
                        Peril: Leadership and the World's Columbian Exposition," 
                     
                                Chicago
                             History, XII (Fall, 1983), 21–22. States and territories spent
                        over four million dollars on their buildings and exhibits. This constituted more than 11 percent
                        of the thirty-five-million-dollar cost of creating the Columbian Exposition. Trumbull White and
                        William Igleheart, The World's Columbian Exposition (
                            Chicago
                        , 1893), 636.
            
            
            Indiana offers a useful example of how individual states and territories participated in the
                    world's fair. Among the larger states in 1893, Indiana had developed a strong manufacturing
                    capability to match its agricultural strength. The state was important in national politics and also
                    boasted a remarkable array of writers, thinkers, and social activists. It was the age of Eugene V.
                    Debs, Benjamin Harrison, May Wright Sewall, Booth Tarkington, Lew Wallace, and James Whitcomb Riley.
                    Boisterous and booming, proud of its progress, and eager to be recognized as a center of American
                    civilization, Indiana typified many states of the era in its desire to achieve recognition at the
                    world's fair.4
            
            Agitation for a great world's fair to celebrate the four hundredth anniversary of the
                    discovery of America began in earnest in 1889. Four cities—
                  Washington, St. Louis, New York
               , and 
                        Chicago
                    —vied for the honor of hosting such an exposition. After a spirited contest,
                    Congress awarded the prize to 
                        Chicago
                    , which had pledged ten million dollars for the event. In this political struggle 
                        Chicago
                     enjoyed the support of every Indiana representative and senator save one. President
                    Harrison of Indiana signed the world's fair bill in April, 1890. The bill mandated the
                    creation of a national commission to oversee the planning and other aspects of the exposition. The
                    law also required the commission to name a Board of Lady Managers to supervise women's
                    participation in the fair.5
            
            In June, 1890, Governor Alvin Hovey nominated Elijah B. Martindale of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Thomas Garvin of 
                        Evansville
                     as Indiana's world's fair commissioners. Charles M. Travis from 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and William McLean of 
                        Terre Haute
                     were appointed as alternates. The Board of Lady Managers included 
                        Virginia
                     C. Meredith, 
                        Cambridge City
                    , and Wilhelmina Reitz, 
                        Evansville
                    , as members and Susan W. Ball, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and Mary Hannah Kraut, 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , as alternates. In all of these appointments Indiana met the federal requirement that
                    half should be Democrats and half Republicans.6
            
            
               
                  4 A very useful study of Indiana in this period is Clifton J. Phillips,
                            Indiana in Transition: The Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth,
                            1880–1920 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1968). Howard H. Peckham, Indiana: A Bicentennial History (
                            New York
                        , 1978); and William E. Wilson, Indiana: A History (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1966) are interesting but more general in their coverage. None of these volumes
                        addresses the state's participation in the Columbian Exposition.
               
                  5 Hubert Howe Bancroft, The Book of the Fair (
                            New York
                        , 1894), 37–42; Badger, Great American Fair,
                        44–52; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, February 25, 1890. Only Representative John Henry O'Neall of 
                            Washington
                        , Indiana, voted against 
                            Chicago
                        .
               
                  6
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, May 15, 1891; World's Columbian Exposition
                            Illustrated, II (June, 1892), 82.
            
            
            Several of Indiana's national representatives emerged as leading figures in the
                    world's fair. Martindale, a former judge who had also been involved in the state's
                    efforts at the 1876 Centennial Exposition in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , served on the executive committee of the national commission and chaired the buildings
                    and grounds committee. Meredith, who ran a large cattle-breeding farm in eastern Indiana and had
                    administered an agricultural program at the University of 
                        Minnesota
                    , was closely associated with Chicagoan Bertha Palmer, president of the Board of Lady
                    Managers. She also served as parliamentarian of the board. Kraut worked as a reporter for the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    InterOcean and established a room in the fair's Woman's Building
                    for women correspondents. The Indiana appointments to the commission and to the Board of Lady
                    Managers were generally well regarded by the press.7
            
            Martindale took the lead in seeking the support of the governor and legislature for a statewide
                    effort on behalf of the world's fair. In September, 1890, he told reporters that Indiana
                    could not afford to ignore the fair. Geographic proximity as well as the unparalleled opportunities
                    for advertising state products and resources forced Indiana to make a "creditable
                    exhibit." This could only happen, he argued, with the establishment of a statewide
                    organization and the appropriation of ample funds by the legislature. He called for the erection of
                    a state building at the fair and warned that other states were ahead of Indiana in planning their
                    exhibits. A few months later Martindale joined Indiana's other national fair
                    representatives in calling upon Governor Hovey to propose to the legislature the appointment of a
                    state world's fair board. They also asked the governor for "an appropriation as
                    will secure a liberal and creditable display of the resources of the State of Indiana at the
                    World's Columbian Exposition."8
            
            In March, 1891, the General Assembly passed a world's fair bill, noting that "it is
                    of great importance that the natural resources, industrial development, and general progress of the
                    State of Indiana should be fully and creditably displayed to the world at such Exposition."
                    The bill established the Indiana Board of World's Fair Managers. The governor was to
                    appoint twenty-six 
                  
                     7
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, September 26, 1890; World's Columbian
                                Exposition Illustrated, II (June, 1892), 82; H.S.K. 
                                Bartholomew
                            , "
                                Virginia
                             C. Meredith," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXV
                            (March, 1939), 49–52; Jeanne Madeline Weimann, The Fair Women (
                                Chicago
                            , 1981), 48, 515. Kraut was editor of the "Woman's
                            Kingdom" department. She was also president of the National Press League.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, September 26, 1890; Department of Indiana.
                                World's Columbian Exposition Address to Governor Alvin P. Hovey and the General
                                Assembly of Indiana by the Commissioners and Lady Managers and Their Alternates for
                                Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1890).
               
                     members, thirteen from each political party. Additionally, all
                    Indiana members of the national commission and Board of Lady Managers and their alternates were to
                    be members together with the governor, the president of the State Board of Agriculture, the state
                    geologist, and the chief of the Indiana Bureau of Statistics. Altogether, there were thirty-eight
                    members of the board. The managers were permitted by law to name an executive committee that could
                    act on behalf of the larger body. The legislature, which originally entertained a proposal for a
                    three-hundred-thousand-dollar appropriation, eventually determined on a figure of seventy-five
                    thousand dollars. With this the managers were to gather, transport, arrange, and exhibit all Indiana
                    displays. The managers could spend part of the money to pay the salaries of a secretary and of an
                    executive commissioner whom they were authorized to hire. Language in the bill specifically called
                    upon the managers to mount a state exhibit in 
                        Chicago
                     "of the natural and industrial products of the State and of objects
                    illustrating its history, progress, moral and material welfare and future development."9
            
            In implementing the world's fair legislation, Hovey chose to appoint a Republican and a
                    Democrat from each of the state's twelve congressional districts. He also named two other
                    individuals, Professor John 
                        Campbell
                     of Wabash College and May Wright Sewall of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , as at-large delegates. Both of these managers were strong additions. 
                        Campbell
                    , an engineer, had served as secretary of the Centennial Exposition in 1876 and was
                    therefore familiar with international fairs. Sewall was a major national figure in women's
                    education, suffrage, and club movements. She held numerous positions in women's
                    organizations at the state, national, and international levels. Perhaps most importantly, she was
                    heading the effort to hold an international congress of women at 
                        Chicago
                     in 1893 in conjunction with the Columbian Exposition. Extraordinarily active and
                    talented, Sewall would make a major contribution to Indiana's world's fair
                        activities.10
            
            In May, 1891, the governor convened the first meeting of the Indiana Board of World's Fair
                    Managers. Besides 
                        Campbell
                    , Sewall, Meredith, Martindale, and Kraut, there were other members 
                  
                     9 World's Columbian Exposition, Final Report of the
                            President, Part III, Government Acts, RG 43 (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
                  
                     10
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 15, 1891; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, August 1, 1890; Ted Gronert, Sugar Creek Saga: A
                                History and Development of 
                                    Montgomery County
                                
                      (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Ind., 1958), 209–10; Weimann, Fair Women,
                            108–109. For an interesting analysis of Sewall, see Jane Stephens, "May
                            Wright Sewall: An Indiana Reformer," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            LXXVIII (December, 1982), 273–95.
               
                     of considerable stature. Clement Studebaker, for example, headed
                    Studebaker Brothers Wagon Manufacturing Company in 
                        South Bend
                    , one of the largest wagonmakers in America with significant international sales. He had
                    also been active in efforts to have the fair located in 
                        Chicago
                    . Edward Hawkins of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was both a well-known lawyer and a founder of the influential Commercial Club, while
                    William McLean of 
                        Terre Haute
                     had recently served as assistant superintendent of pensions in the first Grover 
                        Cleveland
                     administration. All of the managers were locally influential.11
            
            Partisan politics bedeviled the board of managers from the beginning. Almost all of the members were
                    active participants in the state's volatile politics and were determined not to permit
                    their adversaries to benefit politically from the world's fair effort. Even before the
                    initial meeting in Hovey's office, the Republican and Democratic managers caucused to
                    discuss the selection of board officers and the executive commissioner. Negotiations between the two
                    partisan groups led to an agreement. The Republicans were to name the president and secretary.
                    Democrats, on the other hand, received the right to select the executive commissioner. As a result,
                    the meeting with the governor went smoothly. Studebaker accepted the presidency after the governor
                    declined a courtesy offer. Several candidates, including the governor's private secretary,
                    lobbied board members for the appointment as secretary; William T. Noble of 
                        Indianapolis
                     won the election. Other officers included Charles B. Stuart of 
                        Lafayette
                     as vice-president and Frederick J. Hayden of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     as treasurer, both of whom were Democrats. On May 16 the managers completed their
                    initial organization when Studebaker appointed committees, including the executive committee. The
                    committee structure closely followed the departmental structure of the Columbian Exposition. Thus,
                    the Indiana managers had committees to organize exhibits for agriculture, livestock, machinery and
                    manufacturing, building materials, mines and mining, education, and women's work. In
                    addition, a committee was assigned to supervise the construction of a state building at the fair.12
            
            Unlike many state world's fair boards, Indiana's allowed women a major role. Some
                    state boards included no women, limiting them to cooperation with the exposition's Board of
                    Lady Managers. As Kraut pointed out in the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    InterOcean, Indiana not only appointed eight women to its board but also selected
                        
                  
                     11
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 15, 1891; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, July 30, 1889.
                  
                     12
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 16, 1891.
               
                     two for membership on the powerful executive committee. She
                    added that every committee had at least one woman member. All eight women managers served on the
                    Committee on Women's Work. The active involvement of women in Indiana's
                    world's fair activities proved a wise move as they soon demonstrated a tireless commitment
                    to mounting a successful exhibition.13
            
            Before adjourning their first meeting, the managers made several significant decisions relating to
                    the proposed state building at the fair, which everyone agreed would be Indiana's most
                    important exhibit. The executive committee was ordered to obtain a building site and to conduct a
                    competition among architects to secure the most attractive design for the structure. Prizes were to
                    be awarded for the best proposals with the first-place winner receiving three hundred dollars.
                    Architects were to limit building costs to twenty-five thousand dollars and to plan construction
                    with Indiana materials.
            During the next forty-eight hours the various committees met in an 
                        Indianapolis
                     hotel. They elected chairmen and hammered out plans for the exhibits in their
                    respective areas. On May 18 the board reassembled and approved the committee reports which together
                    constituted a statement of the plan and scope of the Indiana exhibits. In sum, the board pledged
                    itself to a massive and comprehensive exhibit encompassing agriculture, manufacturing, mining,
                    forestry, education, charity, art, literature, and women's work in the state. It was an
                    ambitious scheme, one requiring the cooperation of thousands of individuals and organizations and
                    the expenditure of far more funds than the legislature appropriated. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News applauded the managers' plans. "If the board of managers is
                    able to carry out this plan and scope," one story read, "
                        Chicago
                    , in 1893, will be a great place for Indianians to go to see what their own State
                        produces."14
            
            While the various committees labored to interest their constituencies in supporting a display at the
                    fair, the board's executive committee launched plans for a state building. In August they
                    journeyed to 
                        Chicago
                     and visited the grounds. Standing amidst piles of dirt and stacks of lumber, they could
                    not have imagined the ultimate beauty that would emerge eighteen months later. Perhaps because of
                    Martindale's influence as chair of the national commission's buildings and grounds
                    committee, the executive committee obtained one of the choice sites for their structure: a 
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., May 30, 1891; World's Columbian Exposition
                                Illustrated, I (July, 1891), 14.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 16, 18, 1891.
               
                     triangular plot of land next to a lagoon not far from the
                            
                  Illinois, Wisconsin
               , and California buildings.15
            
            In September, 1891, the state board of managers reassembled in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . They confronted two major controversial issues: selecting a design for the state
                    building and choosing an executive commissioner. Both problems dragged the board into political
                    difficulties. The design contest had attracted six competitors, all from Indiana. On September 10
                    the executive committee met and discussed the several designs and narrowed the choice to two plans,
                    one from D.A. Bohlen & Son of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the other from Wing & Mahurin of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . But at the afternoon session Studebaker and Martindale presented a design by 
                        Chicago
                     architect Henry Ives Cobb. Despite the protests of the Indiana architects that the Cobb
                    plan had arrived after the deadline and that an Indiana architect should receive the commission, the
                    executive committee voted to recommend the Cobb design to the full board. The reasons behind the
                    submission and acceptance of Cobb's plan are not entirely clear. Significantly, though,
                    Cobb had designed Studebaker's home in 
                        South Bend
                    . Also, Martindale undoubtedly knew Cobb's work since the Chicagoan was the
                    architect of the Fish and Fisheries Building at the exposition, which Martindale's
                    buildings and grounds committee had reviewed along with the other fair buildings.16
            
            By recommending Cobb, the executive committee aroused the ire of the press and the legislature. When
                    the full board met on September 11, journalists, legislators, and the offended Indiana architects
                    were present. One state senator, who had supported the world's fair bill, angrily told the
                    board that the bill would never have passed had the state assembly known that a 
                        Chicago
                     architect would be paid with Indiana tax dollars to design the Indiana Building.
                    Despite such angry denunciations, the board confirmed the choice of the Cobb plan. Many of the
                    managers expressed reservations, but nearly everyone acknowledged the superiority of the
                    Chicagoan's scheme. A majority accepted Martindale's argument that state honor was
                    better served by adopting the best design, even if it was not submitted by a local architect. If
                    aesthetically defensible, the decision harmed the board's public image as well as its
                    relationship with the legislature.17
            
            
               
                  15
                        Ibid., August 13, 1891; Daniel Burnham to Elijah B. Martindale, July 23, 1891,
                        and Burnham to William T. Noble, August 19, 1891, Daniel Burnham Papers (Art Institute of 
                            Chicago
                        ).
               
                  16
                        Indiana World's Columbian Exposition, 1893. Final Report of B.F. Havens,
                            Executive Commissioner, Board of World's Fair Managers, Indiana, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana, April, 1894 (
                            Terre Haute
                        , [1894]).
               
                  17
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, September 10, 12, 1891; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, September 10, 11, 1891.
            
            
            The board of managers proceeded to complicate its political situation further by choosing Benjamin F.
                    Havens, a 
                        Terre Haute
                     Republican, as executive commissioner. In spite of earlier pledges to permit the
                    Democratic managers to select the executive commissioner, the Republican members worked hard for
                    Havens's election and exploited the fact that the Democrats split their votes among several
                    candidates. A former state legislator and mayor of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Havens proved to be an effective administrator. His appointment, however, aroused
                    concerns about whether the board of managers would be bipartisan. With Republicans holding the three
                    major fair offices, relations with Democratic public officials would be predictably difficult.18
            
            For the time being, at least, Indiana's world's fair effort progressed smoothly
                    under Havens's leadership. By March, 1892, bids had been received for constructing the
                    state building and a contract issued to the Ohm & Collins Company of 
                        Terre Haute
                    . A special committee of the board, with Havens's assistance, solicited the
                    state's limestone, forestry, and tile-making industries for contributions of materials to
                    be used in the building. Many gave freely, believing that the building would stand as an
                    advertisement for their products. The committee also sought out companies to donate furnishings and
                    decorations. Eventually twenty Indiana businesses contributed over ten thousand dollars'
                    worth of materials. The Committee on Women's Work also helped with the building by
                    appealing to women's organizations throughout the state. The women responded by providing
                    drawings, paintings, decorated china, handmade curtains, inlaid tables, and several large
                        statues.19
            
            Throughout 1892 the various committees of the board worked feverishly to arouse public interest in
                    the fair and to gather the best exhibits they could. Havens helped by sending out thousands of
                    letters and circulars to merchants and manufacturers. Several committees found it useful to work
                    through existing agencies. The Committee on Agriculture, for example, was aided by the State Board
                    of Agriculture and county committees responsible for running county fairs. In addition, the
                    committee enlisted the professional expertise of several Purdue University faculty members in
                    selecting and arranging samples of cereal grains and forestry products for display in 
                        Chicago
                    . The Mines and Mining 
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, September 11, 1891; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, September 12, 1891.
                  
                     19
                            Report of the Board of World's Fair Managers of Indiana for
                                World's Columbian Exposition, 1893, to the Governor of the State of
                            Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1893).
               
                     Committee relied largely on Sylvester S. Gorby, the state
                    geologist and one of the state world's fair managers, to collect and prepare samples of
                    stone, coal, clay, and soil. Members of the Manufactures and Machinery Committee benefitted from an
                    alliance with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Board of Trade. That organization, at its own expense, hired an agent who personally
                    contacted over three hundred merchants and manufacturers in the capital city. As a result, nearly
                    seventy firms applied for display space at the fair.20
            
            Two of the board committees, women's work and education, were particularly active in
                    reaching masses of Indiana's citizens. Sewall, chair of the women's committee, led
                    an aggressive campaign to involve the women of Indiana in the fair. Relying heavily on
                    women's clubs and literary societies, Sewall and her committee sought to exhibit fully the
                    economic, artistic, and intellectual contributions of Indiana women. Although the committee
                    encouraged women to make exhibits in all departments of the great fair, it was primarily concerned
                    with soliciting donations for the Indiana Building and the Woman's Building.21
            
            Among other activities, the women's committee commissioned a detailed study on the status of
                    working women in Indiana that analyzed the numbers of women employed and their compensation by
                    industry. This document was on display in the Woman's Building as were books written by the
                    state's female authors. More traditional women's activities were not neglected.
                    The committee hired Mary A. Williamson of 
                        Lafayette
                     to organize a display of decorative needlework. A needlework artist, Williamson was
                    also nationally known as an interior decorator and dress designer, having designed the inaugural
                    ball gown for President Harrison's wife, Caroline. In the spring of 1892 she moved to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and invited interested women to study needlework with her. The best efforts were to be
                    displayed within the Indiana Building or the Woman's Building. Nearly a dozen women,
                    including Clement Studebaker's wife, accepted the invitation. Williamson also visited
                    Indiana towns and cities to encourage women to display their needlework at the exposition.22
            
            The board's Committee on Education, at the suggestion of one of its members, Mrs. S.S.
                    Harrell of 
                        Brookville
                    , initiated the Penny Fund as a means of involving school pupils and their teachers in
                    the fair while generating needed funds. The plan called 
                  
                            20
                            Final Report of Havens.
                        
                  
                     21
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, March 19, April 29, May 12, 1892.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., March 19, April 29, May 18, June 2, November 18, 1892; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, June 3, 1892; Weimann, Fair Women, 388.
               
                     upon the state superintendent of instruction periodically to
                    declare certain school days as "Exposition Days" when students were to discuss the
                    fair and the event it commemorated. They were also to bring one penny to contribute to the fund for
                    an educational exhibit. Teachers were requested to contribute a dime on each exposition day, and
                    principals were asked for fifty cents. By opening day of the Columbian Exposition Indiana
                    schoolchildren, teachers, and administrators had contributed over five thousand dollars to the Penny
                        Fund.23
            
            The Penny Fund permitted the Education Committee to hire Professor W.N. Hailman, a state
                    world's fair manager from 
                        La Porte
                    , as an agent to collect, organize, and display the state's educational
                    exhibit. Hailman traveled throughout the state visiting its fifteen colleges and universities and
                    consulting with local educational associations. Additionally, he arranged for the writing of special
                    monographs on the history of the state, its libraries, its educational system, and its literary
                    societies. A comprehensive display of Indiana authors and their publications was also planned as
                    part of the exhibit. Copies of all Indiana's daily and weekly newspapers were to be
                    available in the Indiana Building.24
            
            By the fall of 1892 the various Indiana exhibits were in an advanced state of preparation. The State
                    House bulged with blocks of stone and coal and samples of corn, wheat, rye, and other grains. A few
                    blocks away visitors to Williamson's home admired the growing piles of table covers,
                    spreads, and curtains destined for 
                        Chicago
                    . At Purdue University Professor Stanley Coulter busily classified one hundred samples
                    of Indiana wood. And in 
                        La Porte
                     Professor Hailman unpacked and arranged hundreds of examples of students'
                    handwriting and artwork. In the midst of this extraordinary activity, however, the board of managers
                    faced a critical budgetary problem that threatened the entire project.25
            
            As early as June, 1892, the board learned from its committees that the original
                    seventy-five-thousand-dollar appropriation would not be sufficient to carry out its plans. In fact,
                    the board predicted that an additional one hundred thirty-five thousand dollars would be needed to
                    complete the state building, mount the exhibits, and cover other costs. Since the legislature did
                    not meet again until early 1893, the board decided to proceed on the assumption that the assembly
                    would provide more money. No one seemed willing to reduce the scope of the exhibit to fit the
                    existing appropriation.26
            
            
               
                        23
                        Final Report of Havens.
                    
               
                  24
                        Ibid.; World's Columbian Exposition Illustrated, I (January, 1892),
                        4; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, May 18, September 2, 1891.
               
                  25
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, July 5, August 23, October 10, November 18, 1892.
               
                  26
                        Ibid., June 2, January 17, 1893; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, June 3, 1892.
            
            
            
               BUILDING THE WHITE CITY
               
               This scene shows work progressing on the thirty-acre floor of the Manufactures and Liberal Arts
                        Building in the winter of 1891–1892. The partially constructed building is the 
                            United States
                         Government Building.
               Reproduced from Die Versch Wundene Weisse Stadt Columbishe (
                            Chicago
                        , 1893).
            
            
               DEDICATION CEREMONY, OCTOBER 21, 1892
               Over one hundred thousand people attended this ceremony held in the Manufactures and Liberal Arts
                        Building.
               Reproduced from Die Versch Wundene Weisse Stadt Columbishe (
                            Chicago
                        , 1893).
            
            
            In appealing for more funds the board confronted a difficult political situation. The choice of Cobb
                    as architect for the state building had rankled some legislators. Of more immediate concern, the
                    fall elections had produced Democratic majorities in both houses of the legislature while the
                    leadership of the board remained Republican. Nonetheless, in late December, 1892, the board sent a
                    lengthy report of its progress to Governor Ira J. Chase and requested that he urge the legislature
                    to appropriate an additional one hundred thirty-five thousand dollars for fair work. Chase expressed
                    strong support for the board in a message to the legislature delivered January 9, 1893. "I
                    cannot speak too strongly in behalf of this great work," said Chase. "It is an
                    opportunity never again to be realized for the State to take her proper place in the front rank with
                    the leading States of the Union." Chase reminded the legislators that no state could match
                    Indiana's varied resources. Indiana produced more coal than any other state west of the
                    Alleghenies. Its building stone enjoyed a national market. Its oil fields "have become the
                    most extensive," while its natural gas production "is without equal
                    anywhere." He asked if most Hoosiers even realized that the state contained the
                    world's largest wagon and plow factories. Moreover, Chase noted, Indiana had
                    glass-producing plants and a reaper and mower company that ranked among the biggest in the nation.
                    All of this, he argued, needed to be made clear to everyone, including Indiana's own
                    citizens. The governor concluded by stating that the state had the necessary funds and that the
                    legislators should "not hesitate in the great duty before us."27
            
            The legislature, for its part, appointed world's fair committees in both houses and then
                    buried the appropriation measure in a procedural tangle. Democrats openly questioned whether the
                    board had wisely spent the money already appropriated. In late January, Havens and the state
                    world's fair board, in an effort to save the bill, proposed that both houses travel by
                    train to 
                        Chicago
                     to see the exposition grounds and the Indiana Building. The board hoped that a
                    firsthand view of the partially finished white palaces of 
                        Jackson
                     Park would persuade the legislators that the board needed more money to represent the
                    state properly. After some hesitation the two houses declined the invitation, preferring to dispatch
                    their world's fair committees to conduct a joint investigation.
            On January 27 a special train left 
                        Indianapolis
                     for 
                        Chicago
                     carrying legislators and members of the state world's fair board 
                  
                     27 World's Columbian Exposition Records, Final Report of the
                            President, Part III, Government Acts, RG 43 (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
               
                     of managers. Some legislators brought their wives, and several
                    others who had not been invited managed to join the party. The railroad donated its services, and
                    the World's Columbian Exposition Company provided transportation within 
                        Chicago
                    . The Indiana group stayed at the Auditorium Hotel in 
                        Chicago
                     and visited 
                        Jackson
                     Park the next morning. After a cordial welcome by fair officials, the group toured the
                    grounds. At the Indiana Building they spent considerable time exploring its twenty-seven rooms and
                    the twin towers that rose from either side of the structure. At several points along the tour many
                    of the legislators expressed strong approval both of the fair and Indiana's effort,
                    promising that the pending appropriation would soon pass the legislature.28
            
            The 
                        Chicago
                     trip appeared at first to be a smashing success. However, the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune on January 29 printed a long story conveying a very different impression.
                    The Tribune claimed that many of the Indiana legislators were angered at their
                    treatment on the trip. Allegedly these individuals objected to the inclusion of many friends of the
                    state world's fair managers in the party and to the location of the rooms they had been
                    assigned in the hotel. There was also a charge that these legislators had felt compelled to support
                    the appropriation publicly as a matter of state pride when, in fact, they still entertained serious
                    reservations about its wisdom. They believed, said the Tribune, that Havens had
                    placed them in an embarrassing position. Although the Tribune story elicited
                    denials from legislators who had made the trip, it was clear that legislative hostility toward the
                    exposition appropriation had increased. Indeed, a few days after the 
                        Chicago
                     excursion, the House of Representatives approved without dissent a peremptory demand
                    that the state board of world's fair managers provide a full accounting of all prior
                        expenditures.29
            
            The world's fair appropriation languished in the legislature until March when a bill was
                    finally sent to the governor. The legislation abolished the position of secretary of the state
                    world's fair board, prohibited meetings of the full board at state expense, gave full
                    supervisory authority to the executive committee, and appropriated a mere fifty thousand dollars to
                    complete all work on the exhibits. It was a case of being too little and far too late. The fair was
                    to open in less than two months. The executive 
                  
                     28
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 17, 19, 20, 28, 1893; Report of the Board of
                                World's Fair Managers.
                  
                  
                     29
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, January 29, 1893; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 30, May 12, 1893; World's Columbian
                                Exposition, 1893, Board of Managers, Indiana Exhibit. Appropriation Statement, Indiana
                                World's Fair Commission, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana, February 2, 1893 ([
                                Indianapolis
                            ?], [1893]).
               
                     committee now struggled to adjust its plans to conform to an
                    appropriation slightly more than one third as great as they had requested.30
            
            The Democratic majorities in the legislature had reacted to what they perceived to be a partisan
                    political situation. The behavior of the world's fair board certainly had contributed to
                    this impression. Still, the legislature's action was both shortsighted and unfair. Whatever
                    the politics of its members, the board of managers had served the state well. They had devoted
                    nearly two years of their lives to the fair and had planned for exhibits that would have fully
                    expressed Indiana's claims to national recognition. Now, working with inadequate funds, the
                    board could not hope to compete at the fair with many other states of comparable size and
                    importance. To its credit, the board did not resign but determined to do the best it could under the
                    circumstances.
            As the May opening date of the Columbian Exposition approached, excitement mounted throughout
                    Indiana. The newspapers reported daily on the wonders of the White City and detailed
                    Indiana's exhibits. 
                        Chicago
                     hotels placed enticing advertisements in 
                        Indianapolis
                     papers while railroads made plans for additional trains to carry Hoosier sightseers to 
                        Chicago
                    . Workers swarmed over the Indiana Building in an effort to complete the structure in
                    time. From 
                  Indianapolis, Lafayette
               , and 
                        La Porte
                     the Indiana state exhibits were shipped by rail to 
                        Jackson
                     Park.31
            
            On April 28 the people of 
                        Indianapolis
                     had their first direct contact with the Columbian Exposition. Early that morning a
                    train backed into the Tennessee Street siding and detached a flatcar upon which, encased in a
                    framework of oak beams, stood the Liberty Bell. Escorted by high officials of Pennsylvania and the
                    city of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , the bell was on its way to the exposition to be the principal exhibit in the
                    Pennsylvania state building. For days the citizens of 
                        Indianapolis
                     had prepared to greet the historic relic. Led by thirteen thousand schoolchildren, each
                    of whom carried an American flag, the populace listened to speeches at the State House by former
                    President Harrison and other dignitaries and then paraded past the bell in two columns. Blind
                    students were lifted aboard the railroad car by burly 
                        Philadelphia
                     policemen and allowed to touch the ancient symbol. By the time the Liberty Bell left 
                        Indianapolis
                     it was literally buried in flowers that the vast crowd had tossed upon the car. It must
                    have occurred 
                  
                     30 World's Columbian Exposition Records, Final Report of the
                            President, Part III, Government Acts, RG 43 (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.); 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, February 1, 14, 17, 1893.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, March 3, 22, 28, 1893.
               
                    
                    
                  Courtesy 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society, ICHi-17584.
               
                     to many that any event that could command the presence of the
                    Liberty Bell was not to be missed.32
            
            The Indiana Building was officially dedicated on June 15, 1893. Thousands of Hoosiers took advantage
                    of reduced railroad fares and journeyed to 
                        Chicago
                     to join in the celebration. The building, which cost sixty-four thousand dollars if the
                    value of donated materials is included, was a striking structure. Cobb, its architect, called the
                    building "baronial." Others described it as French Gothic in style. In size it was
                    102 feet wide and 142 feet long including the broad, hospitable verandas. The building sported
                    numerous pinnacles and two imposing towers each 120 feet tall. Gables of gothic design stood above
                    each window and door. In the center of each gable was engraved the Indiana seal. Indiana stone and a
                    substance called staff composed the exterior walls, which were a deep gray in color. The roof of the
                    three-story structure was covered with red and gray shingles. Stone, particularly 
                        Bedford
                     limestone, was prominently displayed not only in the walls but in the steps, doorways,
                    and massive fireplaces. An ornamental balustrade surrounded the verandas, which had floors of
                    Indiana hardwood. The first floor was divided between a large assembly hall to the south and
                    men's and women's lounges, a post office, and a checkroom to the north. Reading
                    and committee rooms occupied the second floor, while a large lunchroom filled much of the third
                    story. Throughout the building Indiana tile and hardwood were featured.
            Decorations and furnishings were sparse due to the reduced appropriation. Nevertheless, the
                    interested visitor could find much that reflected Indiana's culture and history. Indiana
                    artists donated nineteen paintings and drawings, none of which drew critical praise. There were also
                    portraits of prominent Hoosiers such as Benjamin Harrison. The assembly room housed three statues.
                    One, donated by the women of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , was executed by Janet Scudder and titled "Nymph." The second one,
                    called "Indiana," had been sculpted by Retta Matthews of Arlington and was a gift
                    of the women of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Frances Goodwin, a 
                        Newcastle
                     sculptress, contributed a piece titled "Education." In the second
                    floor reading room visitors could browse among state newspapers or the two bookcases filled with the
                    works of Indiana authors.33
            
            The dedication ceremony was relatively simple. Harrison, by now a familiar figure at world's
                    fair functions, spoke briefly as 
                  
                     32
                     Ibid., April 13, 28, 1893.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., May 1, 24, June 6, 9, 12, 15, 16, 21, 1893. Staff was a substance
                            composed of plaster of 
                                Paris
                             and fibers.
               
                    
                    
                  THE INDIANA BUILDING ON INDIANA DAY
                  
                  Reproduced from W.H. 
                                Jackson
                            , photographer. The White City As It Was (
                                Chicago
                            , 1894)
                did Havens, Studebaker, Governor Claude Matthews, Meredith, and 
                        Campbell
                    . They reviewed the work of the board of managers and expressed a hope that visiting
                    state residents would make full use of their building. Governor Matthews announced that he and the
                    state world's fair board had jointly requested the exposition management to designate a day
                    later in the summer that would be known as Indiana Day. As state days meant large attendance, the
                    exposition company readily agreed to the request.34
            
            Indiana Day, September 27, attracted as many as one hundred thousand Hoosiers to 
                        Jackson
                     Park. They came aboard trains of the Big Four, the 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the New Monon, and other lines. One popular, as well as cheap, route from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Chicago
                     was the Lake 
                        Erie
                     & Western. The line ran north to 
                        Michigan City
                     where passengers transferred to the company's steamships for the forty-mile
                    trip to the world's fair pier at 
                        Jackson
                     Park. The first steamship left at daybreak so that passengers 
                  
                     34
                     Ibid., June 15, 1893. Many state organizations
                            used the building for meetings. One 
                                Lafayette
                             couple chose the structure for their wedding in October.
               
                    
                    
                  THE FERRIS WHEEL
                  
                  Considered a technological marvel, Ferris's invention attracted one and a half
                            million riders in 1893. Over two thousand could climb aboard at one time.
                  Reproduced from Die Versch Wundene Weisse Stadt Columbishe (
                                Chicago
                            , 1893).
               
                    
                  VIEW OF NORTH POND
                  
                  The Indiana Building is on the left. The Wisconsin and Ohio buildings stand to the right. The
                            large building is the Palace of Art, now the Museum of Science and Industry. Note the
                            gondola.
                  Reproduced from W.H. 
                                Jackson
                            , photographer, The White City As It Was (
                                Chicago
                            , 1894).
               
                     might arrive at the exposition grounds by 8:00 a.m.
                    Disembarking, the visiting Hoosier was immediately plunged into the world of 
                        Chicago
                    's great exposition. On the 2,500-foot-long pier, for example, a nickle
                    purchased a ride on the moving sidewalk that had two electrically powered belts operating at
                    different speeds. The faster belt, which moved at six miles per hour, had seats; many fair visitors
                    chose to eat their lunches here while gliding about the pier.35
            
            Most Hoosiers would have walked quickly to the entrance of the fair, passing through an enormous
                    colonnade known as the Peristyle. Beyond the huge Greek pillars, the most impressive view of the
                    fair, the Court of Honor, captivated the visitor. The greatest of the fair buildings stood around a
                    large basin filled with monumental sculptures. To the left was the classical-style Agricultural
                    Building. Farther to the west stood the Machinery Building with its vaguely Spanish towers. Directly
                    ahead, the Administration Building dominated the entire scene; only St. Peter's in 
                        Rome
                     possessed a larger dome. Located just north of the Administration Building were the
                    exhibition halls for electricity and for mines and mining. To the right of the Peristyle loomed the
                    largest building in the world, the Manufactures and Liberal Arts Building. Covering over thirty
                    acres of land, the structure was a full mile around its perimeter. Its roof towered over twenty
                        stories.36
            
            Many Indiana visitors rented an electric boat or one of the authentic Venetian gondolas for the trip
                    to the Indiana Building. Taking this route, the visitor could see such major fair structures as the
                    Government, Fisheries, Horticulture, Woman's, and Illinois buildings. Undoubtedly many
                    stopped at the Transportation Building to examine architect Louis Sullivan's elegant Golden
                    Door. Alighting at the landing before the Woman's Building, the visitor could enjoy a brief
                    walk to the Indiana Building. To the west were the fascinating and occasionally risqué
                    attractions of the Midway Plaisance, which occupied a six-hundred-foot-wide stretch of land
                    extending for a mile before ending at 
                        Washington
                     Park. George Ferris's huge wheel that carried over two thousand passengers on
                    each ride was clearly visible. Knowledgeable visitors knew that in the shadow of the wheel the
                    famous Little 
                        Egypt
                     performed her seductive dance in the Streets of Cairo exhibit.37
            
            
               
                  35
                  Ibid., June 9, 1893; A Week at the Fair:
                            Illustrating the Exhibits and Wonders of the World's Columbian Exposition (
                            Chicago
                        , 1893), 118.
               
                  36 Burg, 
                     
                                Chicago
                            's White City, 114–37.
               
                        37
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            Visiting Hoosiers arriving early for the Indiana Day festivities might be lucky enough to find an
                    empty rocking chair on the east veranda of the state building. From here, across a quiet lagoon,
                    could be seen the most universally admired building at the fair, the Palace of Art. Fortunately,
                    modern visitors can have the same view. The site of the Indiana Building is now a grassy park area,
                    but the Museum of Science and Industry, the former Palace of Art, still stands.
            During the entire six-month run of the Columbian Exposition, three hundred thousand Hoosiers attended
                    the event. Approximately a third of this number came to 
                        Chicago
                     on Indiana Day. Newspapers reported that a steady stream of excursion trains
                    "from nearly every city, town and hamlet" arrived at the fair's huge
                    Terminal Station. Organized groups came from 
                  Indianapolis, Richmond, Muncie, Fort Wayne,
                            Logansport, Lafayette, Terre Haute
               , New 
                        Albany
                    , and 
                        Vincennes
                    . At 11:00 a.m. the ceremonies began at the Indiana Building. Governor Matthews,
                    Harrison, and various state world's fair officials were on the program, and so too was
                    James Whitcomb Riley. A band from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     played patriotic airs and the Hoosier Nightingales from 
                        Elkhart
                     sang. That night there was a special fireworks display over the great basin in honor of
                    Indiana which, for some reason, featured "a Chinese Pagoda made of 10,000 separate burning
                        bits."38
            
            Between the speeches and the fireworks many Hoosier visitors would have explored the grounds in
                    search of Indiana exhibits. And throughout the 686-acre area they would have found evidence of
                    Indiana's commercial, manufacturing, agricultural, and cultural strength. In the
                    Manufactures and Liberal Arts Building dozens of companies and individuals handsomely displayed
                    their wares. There were washing machines from 
                        Evansville
                    , plate glass from 
                        Kokomo
                    , refrigerators from 
                        Michigan City
                    , oil tanks from 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and blankets from 
                        Seymour
                    . In the southeast part of the building could be found Professor Hailman's
                    education exhibit, which equalled in importance displays from 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Massachusetts
                    . Public school systems contributed many of the items, but the state's colleges
                    and universities also were well represented.39
            
            In and around the Agriculture Building Indiana exhibits were particularly prominent. The main state
                    agriculture pavilion contained 
                  
                     38
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, September 27, 1893; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 26, September 27, 1893; Final Report of
                            Havens. Lew Wallace was also invited to be on the program at Indiana Day but cancelled
                            at the last minute.
                  
                     39
                            Final Report of Havens; Bancroft, Book of the Fair, 169;
                            White and Igleheart, World's Columbian Exposition, 116.
               
                    
                    
                  INDIANA BUILDING
                  
                  Designed by Chicagoan Henry Ives Cobb, the structure won an award for architectural
                            excellence.
                  Reproduced from Die Versch Wundene Weisse Stadt Columbishe (
                                Chicago
                            , 1893).
               
                    
                  THE WORLD'S FAIR PIER
                  
                  Many visitors arrived at the fair by steamship, landing at this 2,500-foot-long pier. The
                            picture shows the popular moving sidewalk and the whaleback steamship Christopher 
                                    Columbus
                                .
                  
                  Reproduced from Die Versch Wundene Weisse Stadt Columbishe (
                                Chicago
                            , 1893)
               
                    
                    
                  THE COURT OF HONOR AS SEEN FROM THE ROOF OF THE MANUFACTURES AND
                                LIBERAL ARTS BUILDING
                  
                  This was a popular spot for visitors seeking a grand panorama of the fairgrounds.
                  Reproduced from W.H. 
                                Jackson
                            , photographer. The White City As It Was (
                                Chicago
                            , 1894).
               
                    
                  THE COURT OF HONOR AS SEEN FROM THE PERISTYLE
                  
                  This was the first view of the court seen by visitors arriving by steamship. The
                            Administration Building is the large domed structure at the far end of the basin, and the
                            statue "Republic" by Daniel 
                                Chester
                             French stands in the foreground. The Agriculture Building is to the left, and
                            the Manufactures and Liberal Arts Building is on the right.
                  Reproduced from W.H. 
                                Jackson
                            , photographer, The White City As It Was (
                                Chicago
                            , 1894).
               
                     large pyramids of glass jars filled with samples of corn,
                    wheat, rye, and other cereal grains. There was also a twenty-five-foot-high pyramid of corn in
                    stalk. Such was the quality of Indiana's corn that foreign commissioners from
                            
                  England, Germany
               , and 
                        Italy
                     immediately purchased the samples for shipment to Europe after the fair ended.
                    Elsewhere in the building were extensive displays of Indiana's wool and honey industries.
                    Farmers found that Indiana possessed a considerable number of firms specializing in agricultural
                    machinery. Plows from factories in 
                  Indianapolis,
                            Greencastle, South
                        Bend
               , and 
                        Mishawaka
                     were particularly prominent. But cultivators made in Brookston and grinding mills from
                    a plant in 
                        Crown Point
                     were also featured. Professor Coulter prepared finely polished samples of Indiana
                    hardwood for an exhibit in the nearby Forestry Building. Not far away, in the Dairy Building,
                    Indiana women displayed the art of butter sculpting. In the livestock area, Indiana farmers competed
                    for medals and premiums by entering hundreds of horses, sheep, pigs, and cows.40
            
            Sprawling over seventeen acres, the Machinery Building housed numerous exhibits by Indiana firms.
                    Pumps from Kendallville stood near pulleys from 
                        South Bend
                     and engines from 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . The greatest Indiana exhibit in the building was the enormous tandem compound steam
                    engine built by the Atlas Engine Works of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This working exhibit generated power for thousands of electric lights on the
                    fairgrounds. All of the fuel powering the machinery of the Columbian Exposition came from Indiana.
                    Carried by pipes to 
                        Jackson
                     Park, natural gas from Greentown and oil from the new Standard Oil refinery at Whiting
                    were stored at the south end of the grounds.41
            
            Indiana's pavilion in the Mines and Mining Building adequately displayed the
                    state's stone and soil resources. Within a structure built of terra cotta and 
                        Bedford
                     stone, State Geologist Gorby had arranged polished blocks of limestone and coal from
                    nearly every quarry and mine in Indiana. Jars of commercially valuable clays and soils lined shelves
                    in the pavilion. Labels on each jar described the contents, indicating their origins. Gorby also
                    provided a large map detailing the locations of Indiana's mineral wealth. Although neat and
                    informative, the Indiana exhibit could not compete with such states as Montana and 
                        Colorado
                    
                    
                  
                     40
                            Final Report of Havens;
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 28, 1893; Bancroft, Book of the Fair,
                            351–52.
                  
                     41 Bancroft, Book of the Fair, 309–11; 
                                Milwaukee
                            
                            Sentinel, March 26, 1893; White and Igleheart, World's Columbian Exposition, 148–49; World's Columbian Exposition Illustrated, III (March, 1893), 316.
               
                    
                    
                  THE ATLAS ENGINE
                  
                  Located in the annex of the Machinery Building, this engine helped provide electrical power
                            for the Columbian Exposition.
                  Reproduced from Die Versch Wundene Weisse Stadt Columbishe (
                                Chicago
                            , 1893).
                which flaunted their gold and silver deposits. Next door, in the Electricity Building,
                    several Indiana firms mounted extensive displays. Chief among those was the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Electric Company, which exhibited a large variety of dynamos, motors, and arc lamps.42
            
            In the Transportation Building Studebaker Brothers drew critical praise for its vehicles. Among
                    others, it displayed an American farm wagon coated with aluminum, a French parcel delivery wagon, a
                    street sprinkler, and a coal and garbage dump. The Birdsell Manufacturing Company, also of 
                        South Bend
                    , attracted large crowds to its exhibit of a gold-plated steel farm wagon. Elsewhere in
                    the building visitors found a variety of phaetons, military vehicles, and bicycles from factories in
                            
                  Evansville, Marion, Lafayette
               , and 
                        Indianapolis
                    .43
            
            Other Indiana exhibits were displayed in the Horticulture, Woman's, and Art buildings. The
                    horticulture structure, with its 
                  
                     42 Bancroft, Book of the Fair, 413, 474; Final Report of Havens;
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 12, February 3, July 3, 1893.
                  
                     43
                            Final Report of Havens;
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 7, 1893.
               
                     huge and impressive dome, was the largest hothouse in the
                    world, stretching more than a thousand feet along the shore of a lagoon. Amid California fruit trees
                    and 
                        German
                     wine displays grew begonias and chrysanthemums from 
                        Richmond
                     and ferns donated by Purdue University. Additional displays featured fountains made in 
                        Fountain City
                    , cultivators from Pleasant Lake, rustic stonework from 
                        Bedford
                    , and fruit driers from 
                        Ligonier
                    . Unfortunately, crop failures prevented the state world's fair board from
                    carrying out its plan to enter a large fruit display.44
            
            The Woman's Building, designed by a woman architect and administered by the Board of Lady
                    Managers, was among the most popular at the fair. Never before had the government accorded women
                    such significant recognition. Women from throughout the nation and the world lavished attention on
                    thousands of exhibits demonstrating the contributions of women to western culture. Indiana women
                    were well represented. Sewall and the women's committee of the state world's fair
                    board displayed their monograph on the status of women in Indiana. Fifty women from Indiana, many of
                    them associated with Williamson, contributed to a needlework exhibit highly praised by one 
                        Chicago
                     newspaper. So great was the interest of Indiana women in displaying their handicraft
                    skills that part of the Indiana display had to be shown in the Indiana Building and yet another part
                    in the Manufactures and Liberal Arts Building. Altogether 108 women contributed an assortment of
                    delicately beautiful tablecloths, doilies, cushions, and piano covers.45
            
            The Palace of Art was a vast storehouse of some of the world's best art. Hanging along one
                    mile of wall space were thousands of paintings. Each painting had been selected by a jury that
                    applied rigorous standards. American juries were especially strict, knowing that American art would
                    be in competition with entries from 
                  France, Germany
               , and 
                        England
                    . Two Indiana artists had works chosen for the American exhibit. Theodore Clement Steele
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                     showed two landscape paintings, "September" and "On the
                    Muscatatuck." William Forsyth, also of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , entered three impressionist-style paintings, "In the Edge of the
                    Woods," "A Hoosier Garden," and "Morning on the
                    Muscatatuck." A third 
                        Indianapolis
                     artist, Frank Scott, who was living in 
                        France
                    , had one of his paintings accepted by the world's fair art jury in 
                        Paris
                    .46
            
            
               
                  44
                        Final Report of Havens; Bancroft, Book of the Fair, 433.
               
                  45 Weimann, Fair Women, 388. The monograph was edited by
                        Ida A. Harper and titled The Associated Work of the Women of Indiana;
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, June 7, 1893.
               
                  46
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, March 18, 1893.
            
            
            Taken as a whole, Indiana's involvement in the World's Columbian Exposition was
                    remarkable. Approximately one Hoosier in seven attended the fair. Nearly four hundred individuals,
                    two hundred companies, one hundred twenty school districts, and dozens of other state institutions
                    contributed almost a thousand exhibits. Uncounted Hoosiers donated to the Penny Fund or served on
                    committees to prepare exhibits for the exposition. Indiana natural gas and oil had helped power the
                    fair, while Indiana stone and wood had been incorporated into the structure of the Mines and Mining
                    Building and the Forestry Building. An engine built in 
                        Indianapolis
                     helped provide electric lighting on the fairgrounds. Perhaps as many as nine million
                    fair visitors had traveled through Indiana on their way to 
                        Chicago
                    .47
            
            The Indiana Board of World's Fair Managers was justifiably proud of its achievements.
                    Despite legislative hostility, the board had arranged a series of exhibits that won 275 medals,
                    certificates, and premiums. In its final report, the board pointedly noted that Cobb's
                    controversial design for the Indiana Building had been awarded a medal for excellence. Although
                    Indiana's relatively modest state exhibits were criticized by some newspapers, the work of
                    the managers earned commendations from fair officials and from others associated with the
                    exposition. In representing Indiana at the fair, the managers spent $122,241 and returned
                    over $2,500 of their appropriation to the state.48
            
            While it is apparent that Indiana contributed to the success of the world's fair, it is more
                    difficult to evaluate the effect of the fair on Indiana. Economically, Indiana farmers and
                    manufacturers were able to bring their products to the attention of easterners and foreign
                    representatives. There is, however, no evidence that such contacts significantly expanded markets
                    for Indiana goods. Moreover, a prolonged depression began in 1893 that greatly slowed American
                    economic development and obscured possible advantages to Indiana resulting from participation in the
                    fair. The Columbian Exposition undoubtedly had a profound if unmeasurable educational impact. Tens
                    of thousands of Hoosiers, for the first time, saw the potential uses of electricity and learned
                    something of foreign cultures. Residents of Hoosier cities saw in the White City an example of
                    cleanliness, orderliness, and architectural beauty and harmony that contrasted sharply with the
                    dirt, disorder, and ugliness that characterized most American urban centers. The exposition gave
                    rise to the "City Beautiful" 
                  
                            47
                            Final Report of Havens.
                        
                  
                            48
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                    
                    
                  THE WOMAN'S BUILDING
                  
                  Designed by Sophia Hayden of 
                                Boston
                            , this structure symbolized the new recognition of women by fair officials and
                            the federal government.
                  Reproduced from Die Versch Wundene Weisse Stadt Columbishe (
                                Chicago
                            , 1893).
               
                    
                  THE GOLDEN DOOR
                  
                  One of the most famous architectural features of the fair, the Golden Door was the main
                            entranceway to the Transportation Building. Louis Sullivan, one of the nation's
                            truly important architects, developed the design. His young apprentice, Frank Lloyd Wright,
                            performed much of the detailed drafting work.
                  Reproduced from W.H. 
                                Jackson
                            , photographer, The White City As It Was (
                                Chicago
                            , 1894).
               
                     movement that deeply affected urban planning in Indiana and
                    elsewhere for several decades. Indiana farmers had the opportunity to examine a bewildering variety
                    of agricultural machines that were effecting a revolution in farming techniques. They also could
                    compare the quality of their agricultural products with those from other areas of the nation and the
                    world. Art lovers enjoyed unique opportunities to see much of the world's great sculpture
                    and painting, while educators could examine instructional innovations from other states.49
            
            Indiana's exhibits at the Columbian Exposition revealed a great deal about the state. On the
                    positive side, Hoosiers found that they lived in a state rich in natural resources, agriculturally
                    productive, and rapidly developing as a manufacturing center. The fair demonstrated that, for the
                    age, Indiana was progressive in its attitudes toward education and women. Finally, anyone who
                    studied the six hundred volumes of Indiana authors displayed in the Indiana Building had to be
                    impressed with the state's literary prowess. Yet, in at least one area, the Indiana Board
                    of World's Fair Managers was less than liberal. Faced with a strong demand by the
                    state's black citizens to participate in the exhibition, the board chose to ignore their
                    proposals. In taking this position, the board followed the lead of most other states and the
                    exposition management.50
            
            When the great fair ended in the fall of 1893, the Indiana Building was sold and the exhibits packed
                    and shipped home. By state law, the board of world's fair managers was required to send the
                    agricultural, floricultural, and forestry exhibits to the State Board of Agriculture. The mining
                    exhibit became the property of the state geologist, and the Department of Public Instruction took
                    possession of the education display. Furniture from the state building was scattered among
                    Indiana's benevolent institutions. In January and July of 1894 two great fires destroyed
                    most of the White City. The exposition was nothing more than a wonderful memory. But for years to
                    come many Hoosier homes proudly displayed a photograph of the exposition or a framed certificate
                    testifying that the owner had been honored at the greatest world's fair ever held.51
            
            
               
                  49
                        Ibid.;
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, January 17, February 1, 1893; Badger, Great American
                        Fair, 113–18.
               
                  50
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, March 17, 1892.
               
                  51
                        Final Report of Havens; World's Columbian Exposition Records, Final
                        Report of the President, Part III, Government Acts, RG 43 (National Archives, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.); Burg, 
                     
                                Chicago
                            's White City, 287–88.
            
         
         
         
            
               
                        Fort Wayne
                     and the Great Depression:
            The Early Years, 1929–1933
            Iwan Morgan∗
            
            The Wall Street crash of 1929 ushered in a decade of economic misery for America's cities.
                    At first the federal government refused to intervene to aid the millions of urban dwellers who lost
                    their jobs with the onset of the Great Depression. Like many Americans, President Herbert C. Hoover
                    insisted that unemployment relief had to be a local responsibility. In his view, federal action
                    would have undermined business confidence, necessitated ruinous taxation, created a centralized
                    bureaucratic state, and destroyed the basic strengths of the American character.1 In the early 1930s, therefore, every city had to mobilize its resources to deal with the
                    mounting problem of providing relief for the unemployed. Urban communities did not respond to this
                    national crisis in uniform fashion or with identical results.2 Local factors
                    were very significant in determining the nature and development of each city's relief
                    efforts.
            A number of local factors were influential in the case of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana. These included the condition of the city's economy before the crash,
                    the nature of the local structure of political power, the ideology of the city's business
                    elite, the quality of civic leadership, and the political culture of the community. As a result of
                    the interplay of these factors, Indiana's "Summit City" avoided 
                  
                     ∗ Iwan Morgan is senior lecturer in the Department of
                            Politics and Government, City of 
                                London
                             Polytechnic, 
                        London, England
                     . Among his previous publications is
                            "Factional Conflict in Indiana Politics during the Later New Deal Years,
                            1936–1940," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIX (March,
                            1983). His article "
                                Fort Wayne
                             and the Great Depression: The New Deal Years, 1933–1940" is
                            tentatively scheduled to appear in the December, 1984, issue of the IMH.
                  
                  
                     1 Albert U. Romasco, The Poverty of Abundance: Hoover,
                                the Nation, the Depression (
                                New York
                            , 1965), 143; Richard Hofstadter, The American Political Tradition
                                and the Men Who Made It (
                                New York
                            , 1948), 295–304.
                  
                     2 Bernard Sternsher, ed., Hitting Home: The Great
                                Depression in Town and Country (
                                Chicago
                            , 1970), 38–39.
               
                     some of the difficulties besetting other urban communities
                    during the Depression. 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's economy had prospered in the 1920s, whereas some large cities, such as
                            
                  Boston, Philadelphia
               , and 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , had suffered relative industrial decline that compounded their relief problems in the
                    following decade.3 Partisan, ethnic, and racial divisions were detrimental to
                    local relief policy in many cities but not in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's case.4 The Summit City was also blessed with able civic
                    leaders, whose relief efforts won praise from federal and state authorities.5
            
            Several big northern cities, most notably 
                        Detroit
                    , were tottering on the verge of bankruptcy when the federal government finally assumed
                    primary responsibility for relief in 1933.6
                    
                        Fort Wayne
                     was not in such desperate straits. It had not requested aid previously from the state
                    government or the Reconstruction Finance Corporation (RFC), a federal agency empowered to loan
                    cities funds to undertake self-liquidating public works projects. Local relief, based on voluntarist
                    and township aid, had not collapsed. In this context 
                        Fort Wayne
                     offers a particularly interesting example of local response to the Great Depression
                    during the Hoover era. The president's theory of local responsibility for relief probably
                    had as fair a test in this Hoosier city as was possible anywhere. 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's civic leaders themselves insisted on local autonomy and worked hard to deal
                    with the unemployment problem. Nevertheless, they were ready to admit defeat by early 1933 and
                    greeted the coming of the New Deal with enthusiasm. This metamorphosis was a significant indication
                    of the grave crisis facing urban America when F#2 D. Roosevelt entered the White House.
            In late 1929 
                        Fort Wayne
                     was riding the crest of an economic boom. Each issue of one local newspaper, the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    News-Sentinel, carried the banner motto that the city was "entering the
                        
                  
                     3 Charles H. Trout, 
                        
                                    Boston
                                , the Great Depression, and the New Deal (
                                New York
                            , 1977), 3–5; Bonnie R. Fox, "Unemployment Relief in 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1930–1932: A Study of the Depression's Impact on
                            Voluntarism," Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography,
                            XCIII (January, 1969), 86–88; Bruce M. Stave, "
                                Pittsburgh
                             and the New Deal" in John Braeman, Robert H. Bremner, and David Brody,
                            eds., The New Deal. Vol. II: The State and Local Levels
                                    (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     : 1975), 376–406.
                  
                     4 Trout, 
                        
                                    Boston
                                , 58–68; Raymond L. Koch, "Politics and Relief in 
                                Minneapolis
                             during the 1930s," Minnesota History, XLI (Winter,
                            1968), 154–57; 
                                Harvard
                             Sitkoff, A New Deal for Blacks: The Emergence of Civil Rights as a
                                National Issue, the Depression Decade (
                                New York
                            , 1978), 36–37.
                  
                     5 Oliver Griswold to Arthur F. Hall, August 3, 1931, Box 181,
                            President's Emergency Committee for Employment (PECE) Records, RG 73 (National
                            Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
                  
                     6 Mark I. Gelfand, A Nation of Cities: The Federal
                                Government and Urban America, 1933–1965 (
                                New York
                            , 1975), 30–35.
               
                     most prosperous era in its career."7 This optimism was inspired by the success of the booster campaign that the Chamber of
                    Commerce had mounted to attract new industries to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in the 1920s. The city had natural advantages for industry, notably a good location in
                    the Great Lakes region with access to excellent communications and large markets. It had a large
                    pool of skilled and semiskilled labor and could also tap the manpower resources of rural northeast
                        Indiana.8 In view of contemporary popular prejudices, the social composition
                    of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     community was also an advantage. Most citizens were of 
                        German
                    , Irish, or old stock ancestry, a fact that was assiduously publicized. The boosters
                    claimed that 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's "old" ethnic work force was more reliable than labor in
                    the big cities, where immigrants from southern and eastern Europe and blacks were more numerous.9
            
            Other cities offered similar advantages, of course, but many commentators felt that 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's economic success in the 1920s owed much to the good organization and
                    broad-ranging activities of its boosters.10 The Chamber of Commerce had helped
                    local businessmen break the power of trade unionism in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     after World War I.11 Catering to new industrial and population
                    growth, it had lobbied successfully for the expansion of municipal facilities. As a result, 
                        Fort Wayne
                     had acquired a new bus service, a municipal airport, some new roads, and better sewers
                    during the 1920s. The Chamber of Commerce had also formed the Greater 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Development Corporation (GFWDC), which targeted the industries whose needs the city
                    could best meet, took care of land acquisition for new factories, and, when necessary, used its own
                    capital resources to make loans to help cover factory construction costs.12
            
            By 1929 the boosters had brought eight new industries to the city, the largest being the
                    International Harvester Corporation. Five other firms had moved independently to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     during the 1920s.13 Older businesses had also done well, in line
                    with the 
                  
                     7 See especially 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, December 7 to 31, 1929. These issues carried a series of
                            booster articles.
                  
                     8 Chamber of Commerce, Industrial Survey of 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                
                      (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1930), passim.
                  
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 56.
                  
                     10 John Clark, "Keeping up with Jonesville," Saturday Evening Post CC(September 10, 1927), 184.
                  
                     11 Tom Lewandowski, "The Warm Weather of 1919: The Bowser
                            Lock-out and the Bass Strike" (unpublished paper in the author's
                            possession).
                  
                     12 Albert H. Schaaf, "The Chamber of Commerce Takes a
                            Bow," Quest Club Paper, October 10, 1947 (
                                Fort Wayne
                            -
                                Allen County
                             Public Library, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            ). This is a memoir of the Greater 
                                Fort Wayne
                             Development Corporation's activities written by a prominent booster.
                  
                            13
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     general expansion of Indiana's manufacturing economy
                    during the decade.14 As a result, the value of products manufactured in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     had risen from $76,713,000 in 1919 to $121,567,000 in 1929.15 By 1930 
                        Fort Wayne
                     had a population of nearly 115,000, compared with 86,549 a decade earlier. The
                    prosperity of the whole community had increased steadily during the intervening years, reaching a
                    peak in 1929. That December Christmas saving clubs held over $1,100,000 in funds. 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's per capita bank deposits stood at $664, by far the highest figure
                    among Indiana's principal cities.16 Also, 58.0 percent of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's housing units were owner occupied in comparison with only 45.2 percent of
                    nonfarm dwellings in the 
                        United States
                    .17
            
            The Wall Street crash did not undermine the mood of optimism. None of the city's major banks
                    had been badly hurt since they had mainly invested in local industries and mortgages.18 One builder even declared that he did not feel "other than optimistic about
                    the outlook of things."19 The economic expansion of the 1920s
                    indubitably conditioned the early response of local leaders to the Depression. Throughout 1930 they
                    remained confident that 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's recent economic growth and diversified industrial base would protect it from
                    the worst repercussions of the slump.20 To some extent this conviction still
                    fortified their belief in local responsibility for relief even after economic conditions
                    deteriorated markedly in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     during the winter of 1930–1931. Indeed, until early 1933 both local
                    newspapers frequently carried articles claiming that the Depression was less severe in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     than elsewhere and that the city's economy was on the verge of recovery.21
            
            
               
                  14 James H. Madison, Indiana through Tradition and Change: A
                            History of the Hoosier State and Its People, 1920–1945 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1982), 204–33, outlines Indiana's economic expansion.
               
                  15 U.S., Fourteenth Census, 1920, IX, Manufactures, 1919 (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1923), 397–98; U.S., Fifteenth Census, 1930,
                        III, Manufactures, 1929 (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1933), 173.
               
                  16
                        
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        News-Sentinel, December 12, 1929. Per capita bank deposits in 
                            Evansville
                         were $573, in 
                            Indianapolis
                         $464, in 
                            South Bend
                         $458, and in Gary $207.
               
                  17 U.S., Abstract of the Fifteenth Census, 1930 (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1933), 435–36, 405. Of cities with over 100,000 population, only
                        Tacoma, Wash. (60.6%), Flint, Mich. (59.8%), Grand Rapids, Mich. (59.6%), Reading, Pa. (59.5%),
                        and 
                            South Bend
                         (58.7%) had a higher percentage of homeowners.
               
                  18
                        
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        News-Sentinel, November 16, 30, 1929.
               
                  19
                        Ibid., November 21, 1929.
               
                  20
                        
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        Journal Gazette, April 20, 1930; 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        News-Sentinel, October 3, 1930.
               
                  21 See, for example, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        News-Sentinel, October 13, December 30, 1931, February 24, 1932; 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        Journal Gazette, September 8, November 27, 1932.
            
            
            Older industrial cities immediately felt the chill winds of economic catastrophe. By mid-1930 eighty
                    soup kitchens and breadlines could be counted in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , a city where 10.4 percent of the labor force had been unemployed even before the
                    crash. In contrast, only 5 percent of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's labor force, nearly twenty-five hundred people, had no job in April, 1930.
                    Just over one thousand people, who still had jobs, had also been temporarily laid off.22 The majority of those without jobs lived in the east-central district between downtown
                    and the railroad yards. They included many blacks and poor whites who normally occupied a peripheral
                    position in the local economy as unskilled laborers, casual workers, and domestics. A large
                    proportion of those people who had been laid off or lost steady jobs had been employed in the
                    construction industry. Other local businesses appeared to be holding up quite well.23 Civic leaders were therefore confident that normal relief measures would suffice. Although
                    the Community Chest anticipated accumulating a debt of thirty-two thousand dollars before the fall
                    drive to meet increased demand from the needy, its administrators pointed out that the relief quota
                    allocated from the 1930 fund had been particularly low.24
            
            Initially 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's political and business leaders focused their energies on halting the growth
                    of unemployment rather than on expanding local relief. The GFWDC continued its efforts to attract
                    new industries. In 1930 Magnavox located two plants in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , creating about one thousand jobs. The Inca Corporation received aid to expand its
                    existing factory premises. Later, in 1932, Theodore Zollner moved his piston business from 
                        Duluth
                     to the Summit City after the GFWDC helped him secure a mortgage for site acquisition
                    and plant development. This proved to be the booster organization's last success before
                    World War II.25
            
            As was the case in other cities, efforts were made to prop up the ailing construction industry. In
                    1930 eight leading businesses announced building improvement plans and issued contracts totalling
                    over four million dollars. The municipal government also decided to build a new reservoir, dam, and
                    filtration plant, which it financed through a bond issue of two million dollars.26 The city 
                  
                     22 Fox, "Unemployment Relief," 87–88;
                            U.S., Fifteenth Census, 1930, II, Unemployment (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1932), 147–48.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, June 14, 1930.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., June 27, 1930.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., October 31, 1930; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal Gazette, April 20, 1930; Schaaf, "The Chamber of
                            Commerce."
                  
                     26
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, November 16, 1929; Boards of the Public Library of 
                                Fort Wayne
                             and 
                                Allen County
                            , "William J. Hosey: 
                                Fort Wayne
                            's Dedicated Mayor" (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1957), 44.
               
                     could not afford other projects of such magnitude, however.
                    Local businesses also sought to economize rather than expand from late 1930 onwards, so that only
                    one firm commissioned a major building project for the following year.27
            
            The press and civic leaders also conducted campaigns to stimulate consumerism. In the spring of 1930
                    the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    Journal Gazette ran a series of articles urging tenants to consider buying a new
                    house. Property ownership, it declared, was the basis of good citizenship. Few people could respond
                    to such prompting. Only 284 new houses were built in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1930, barely half the previous year's total.28 In the
                    fall of 1930 the press changed its emphasis and encouraged people to buy more retail goods,
                    "So That Dealers May Buy and Factories Can Place Folks Back To Work."29
            
            During the winter of 1930–1931 the decline in nationwide demand finally caught up with 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's factories, and civic leaders became preoccupied with the plight of the
                    unemployed. Following Governor Harry G. Leslie's call for better relief organization in
                    Hoosier communities, the 
                        Allen County
                     Emergency Unemployment Committee (ACEUC) was formed in December, 1930. This body
                    assumed responsibility for organizing private voluntary relief. The executive committee of eleven
                    people included representatives of the trade unions, farmers, social workers, and both political
                    parties. Nevertheless, it was dominated by its business members—two financiers, the
                    Chamber of Commerce manager, and the Employers' Association chairman. Other businessmen
                    also controlled the two special committees that organized fund raising for relief. After visiting 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , a representative of the President's Emergency Committee for Employment (PECE)
                    commented that the ACEUC was opposed to interference from "anyone outside the Chamber of
                        Commerce."30
            
            
               
                        Fort Wayne
                    's economy was not dominated by one industry so the city had no equivalent of 
                        Middletown
                    's "X" family.31 The Chamber of Commerce
                    was the medium through which the city's 
                  
                     27
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, July 24, 1930.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal Gazette, April 13, 1930; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, April 16, 1936.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, November 11, 12, 1930.
                  
                     30 Wayne Morrill to Arthur Woods, December 13, 1930, Box 38, PECE
                            Records. For ACEUC membership see E.J. Hornick and L.R. Pease, "Report of the 
                                Allen County
                             Emergency Unemployment Committee, March 12, 1931" (
                                Fort Wayne
                            -
                                Allen County
                             Public Library).
                  
                     31 See Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrell Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition: A Study in Cultural Conflicts (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 74–101; Carrolyle M. Frank, "Who Governed 
                                Middletown
                            ? Community Power in 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, in the 1930s," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, LXXV (December, 1979), 321–43.
               
                     leading financiers, businessmen, realtors, and lawyers could
                    act in concert. The influence of this organization, which had become active in the Progressive era,
                    had increased in the 1920s. As an adjunct to its booster campaign, it had promoted numerous
                    municipal improvements, sometimes in the face of political opposition.32 Yet the
                    business elite did not entirely control civic affairs and local politics. It had backed the losing
                    Republican faction in the 1929 mayoral primary, for example.33 The other groups
                    represented on the ACEUC probably accepted business leadership because they assumed businessmen had
                    the managerial skills to organize and fund a large relief effort. Businessmen had taken a prominent
                    role in running the wartime Liberty Loan drives and the Community Chest drives since their inception
                    in 1926.34 The Democratic mayor, William J. Hosey, was the only other ACEUC
                    member whose prestige approached that of the business representatives, but he did not challenge
                    their leadership. Age seventy-six and serving his fourth term in office, Hosey was appreciably less
                    energetic than in his prime.35
            
            In a classic essay on influence within the community, the sociologist Robert K. Merton distinguished
                    between "local" and "cosmopolitan" influentials. He categorized
                    localites as people with essentially parochial interests focused on the local community. The
                    interests, perspectives, and reputation of cosmopolitans, on the other hand, extended beyond their
                        hometown.36 The biographical material compiled in Builders of
                        Greater 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , a paean to the boosters published in 1926, suggests that most Summit City
                    businessmen should be characterized as localites. A few eminent businessmen, mainly the leading
                    bankers and industrialists, fitted the cosmopolitan mold. They included Arthur F. Hall, president of
                    the 
                        Lincoln
                     Life Insurance Company, Charles Buesching, president of the 
                        Lincoln
                     National Bank, and Walter Goll, manager of the local General Electric factory. All
                    three were active in the voluntarist relief organizations. Hall, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's most prestigious citizen, agreed to be the ACEUC's chairman. The 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Tribune, lamenting the corruption in Indiana politics, had once spoken of him as a
                    "high minded Hoosier" who would make a good governor.37 Yet
                    localites also supported the 
                  
                     32 Schaaf, "The Chamber of Commerce."
                  
                     33
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal Gazette, May 8, 1929.
                  
                     34 For biographical records of the city's leading
                            businessmen, see Bert J. Griswold, Builders of Greater 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                
                      (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1926).
                  
                     35 "William J. Hosey," 27.
                  
                     36 Robert K. Merton, Social Theory and Social
                            Structure (3d ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1968), 441–74.
                  
                     37 Griswold, Builders, passim;
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                            Tribune, November 22, 1927.
               
                    
                    
                  ARTHUR F. HALL, 1927
                  Courtesy Robert D. Parker, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
               
                    
                  WALTER GOLL, 1927
                  Courtesy Robert D. Parker, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
               
                     relief organization wholeheartedly. For example, J.B. Wiles,
                    the Chamber of Commerce manager, undertook the bulk of the ACEUC's administrative work.38
            
            Both cosmopolitans and locals supported voluntary relief organizations because of shared ideological
                        convictions.39 Both were committed to making a success of local voluntary
                    action because they wanted to keep government out of relief. The specter of higher taxation
                    continually haunted them, and they objected strongly to increases in direct relief expenditure by
                    the township trustee. In 1931 the Chamber of Commerce opposed holding a special session of the
                    Indiana General Assembly to discuss the relief crisis. ACEUC was also hostile to the
                    President's Emergency Committee for Employment (PECE), which Hoover had established to
                    advise local organizations on relief policy.40
                    
                        Fort Wayne
                    's businessmen regarded PECE as the harbinger of direct federal responsibility
                    for relief. Like Hoover, Hall feared that an interventionist state would undermine the foundations
                    of the American system. "No-one," he declared, "wants Governmental
                    Taxation or Governmental Supervision for the care of the unfortunate."41 Businessmen whose concern was essentially local could also appreciate the dangerous
                    precedents for intervention in community affairs that federal involvement in relief would establish.
                    Significantly, their initial break with the Roosevelt administration in late 1933 was occasioned by
                    the New Deal's threat to the local system of industrial relations that had been established
                    after World War I.42
            
            In contrast to its sister organization in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the ACEUC was committed from its inception to providing work relief 
                  
                     38 "Report of the 
                                Allen County
                             Emergency Unemployment Committee, June 30, 1931," pp.
                            27–28, Box 81, President's Organization on Unemployment Relief (POUR)
                            Records, RG 73 (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
                  
                     39 Merton suggested that the motivation for participating in voluntary
                            associations constituted an important distinction between cosmopolitans and localites. The
                            former, he argued, regarded the activities of these organizations as a means "for
                            extending or exhibiting their skills and knowledge"; the latter, in contrast, joined
                            associations because they provided a means for extending personal relations. Nevertheless,
                            this hypothesis is not really applicable to businessmen's participation in 
                                Fort Wayne
                            's voluntary relief organization. Merton, Social
                            Theory, 453.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, August 24, October 17, 1931; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal Gazette, October 13, November 27, 1932; 
                                Fort Wayne
                             Chamber of Commerce to Harry G. Leslie, October 12, 1931, Subject
                            Correspondence, 1929–1933—Special Session file, unnumbered box, Harry
                            G. Leslie Papers (Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State
                            Library and Historical Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); Merrill to Woods, December 13, 1930, Box 38, PECE Records.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, October 14, 1931.
                  
                     42 Oscar Foelinger to Hugh Johnson, September 12, 1933, Box 176, File
                            390, Conciliation Service, 
                                United States
                             Department of Labor Records, RG 280 (National Archives, Suitland, 
                                Maryland
                            ).
               
                    
                    
                  WILLIAM J. HOSEY, 1933
                  Courtesy Robert D. Parker, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
               
                    
                  CHARLES BUESCHING, 1927
                  Courtesy Robert D. Parker, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
               
                     rather than a dole. Direct handouts, the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    News-Sentinel's editor declared, contravened "the spirit of
                    Anglo-Saxon traditions" because they encouraged laziness and bred a class of permanent
                        dependents.43 Those receiving the ACEUC's aid had to work on
                    projects benefitting the community, such as river beautification, park landscaping, road
                    improvement, and snow clearance. About half of the first two thousand relief applicants had been
                    clients of local social agencies and charities in the 1920s. As a result, ACEUC's initial
                    attitude toward the unemployed was not wholly sympathetic. After consulting the social agencies, it
                    adopted a hard line and alerted the creditors of those able-bodied persons who refused work relief
                    and sought township relief instead. The committee even threatened to bring child neglect charges
                    against some individuals who proved particularly stubborn in rejecting work opportunities.44
            
            By March, 1931, over four thousand people had registered with the ACEUC. There was simply not enough
                    relief work available for everyone. The eagerness of most relief applicants to undertake any task
                    soon dispelled notions that they were lazy or responsible for their predicament. One episode
                    graphically illustrated their determination. The gang working on the Blooming-dale Park project knew
                    in advance that only half of its members could be hired on the final work day. Since the foreman
                    intended to select workers in order of their arrival at the site, many of the men turned up at 4:00
                    a.m. for the 8:00 a.m. start, some having walked miles to get there. In these circumstances the
                    ACEUC decided that a social worker should always be on duty at the Unemployment Center to deal with
                    people whose morale showed signs of collapse because relief work was unavailable.45 It is also worth noting that neither of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's newspapers ever poured scorn on the reliefers in the manner of the 
                        Muncie
                     editor cited by Robert and Helen Lynd.46
            
            In Gary, 
                  Boston, Minneapolis
               , and elsewhere relief became entangled with politics
                    during the early 1930s.47
                    
                        Fort Wayne
                     suffered 
                  
                     43
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, November 2, 1931. After experimenting with a dole, the 
                                Marion County
                             voluntary relief organization transferred to work relief projects later in
                            1931. As a result, applications for relief dropped markedly. See J.H. Hewitt to Fred
                            Croxton, March 10, 1932, Box 245, POUR Records; William H. Book, "How 
                                Indianapolis
                             Combines Poor Relief with Public Work," National
                                Municipal Review, XX (September, 1931), 513–17.
                  
                     44 Hornick and Pease, "Report of the 
                                Allen County
                             Emergency Unemployment Committee, March 12, 1931," pp.
                            16–17.
                  
                     45 "Report of the 
                                Allen County
                             Emergency Unemployment Committee, June 30, 1931," pp.
                            23–26, Box 81, POUR Records.
                  
                     46 Lynd and Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition, 142–43.
                  
                     47 Warren Fairbanks to Walter Gifford, November 5, 1931, Box 245, POUR
                            Records; Trout, 
                        
                                    Boston
                                , 58–68; Koch, "Politics and Relief,"
                            154–57.
               
                     from this problem later in the New Deal years, but not during
                    the voluntarist era when businessmen played a dominant role in organizing the local relief effort.
                    Hall was a "rock-ribbed Republican," and so were most members of the Chamber of
                    Commerce, but they did not use the voluntarist relief organization to further the GOP's
                        interests.48 It was evident to them that the voluntarist approach would not
                    succeed if it bred divisions within the community. In fact, 
                        Fort Wayne
                     did not experience a serious political dispute over relief during the period of the
                    ACEUC's existence. Party loyalty was not a qualification for receiving voluntarist relief
                    aid. Nor is there evidence that the committee discriminated against any ethnic or racial group in
                    distributing aid. Some complained that 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's relief administrators tended to favor former servicemen and that they
                    neglected single people; but, in keeping with its community approach, ACEUC's prejudices
                    were mainly focused against outsiders. As a major railroad center, the Summit City attracted many
                    transients who stopped off for a short time in search of food, shelter, and work. From early 1931
                    onwards relief administrators manifested a very hostile attitude toward these people.49
            
            Besides communal solidarity, the voluntary approach depended on generous donations. Under Charles
                    Buesching's leadership the first three ACEUC financial campaigns proved very successful.
                    The first two financial drives netted ACEUC a yearly budget of $360,000, about double the
                    sum normally raised by the Community Chest in the late 1920s.50 Forty percent of
                    the money raised in the first drive of December, 1930, came from "big gifts,"
                    donations from 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's leading businesses and wealthiest citizens. The rest came from small firms
                    and the pockets of ordinary people. Workers who earned under fifty dollars a month were not
                    solicited; those who made over one hundred dollars were requested to pledge a day's pay
                    each month until May; and those earning over fifty dollars were asked for half a day's pay
                    on the same basis.51
            
            
               
                  48 Hall to Paul V. McNutt, April 19, 1933, Arthur F. Hall Papers (Louis A. 
                            Warren
                            Lincoln
                         Library and Museum, 
                            Lincoln
                         National Life Insurance Company, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        ).
               
                  49 "Report of the 
                            Allen County
                         Emergency Unemployment Committee, June 30, 1931," pp. 2–6, Box
                        81, POUR Records; R.P. Burnes to Hugh Johnson, December 7, 1933, Box 15, Administrative
                        Correspondence (State), Civil Works Administration Records, RG 69 (National Archives, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.). See below, page 135 for a local editorial cartoon aimed against
                        "vagrants, panhandlers and beggars."
               
                  50 "Report of the 
                            Allen County
                         Emergency Unemployment Committee, June 30, 1931," p. 1, Box 81, POUR
                        Records.
               
                  51 J.B. Wiles to PECE, March 6, 1931, Box 181, PECE Records.
            
            
            At this stage the ACEUC was still confident that the economy would revive within six months, but it
                    had to hold another drive in the spring of 1931 to secure funds for the second half of that year. In
                    September it decided to plan for the reality of worsening circumstances. Civic leaders agreed to
                    scrap the normal Community Chest drive, which raised money in part for
                    "character-building" organizations such as the Boy Scouts and the YWCA, so that
                    all fund-raising activity could focus on the relief effort. It was also decided that "big
                    gifts" should account for 60 percent of its $385,000 target, a move recommended
                    by the guidelines that the President's Organization on Unemployment Relief (POUR) had set
                    for local voluntarist organizations. Nearly one thousand citizens were recruited to work in the 1931
                    campaign. By now, of course, some people who had donated to the previous campaigns were themselves
                    unemployed. Nevertheless, the community rallied generously again, and the drive went over the top by
                        $30,000.52
            
            
               
                        Fort Wayne
                     citizens probably donated generously because they perceived the Depression primarily as
                    a local crisis, at least prior to the federal government's intervention in 1933. Certainly
                    the ACEUC assiduously cultivated local attachments when appealing for funds. Even though Hall
                    personally had a broad, national perspective of the crisis, he launched the fall drive of 1931 by
                    proclaiming: "We are protecting our city and our community against the perils of social
                    destruction inherent in poverty, idleness, ill health, dependence and discontent."53
            
            In addition to raising money, ACEUC had to organize the expenditure of funds. Unlike 
                        Philadelphia
                    's famous relief committee leader, Horatio Gates Lloyd, Hall did not devote
                    himself full time to the voluntarist effort. The burden of administration fell on Chamber of
                    Commerce manager J.B. Wiles and social worker E.J. Hornick. They registered the unemployed in five
                    categories denoting their priority for relief aid. Men and women who were the sole support of their
                    families and lived in rented accommodation received top priority, followed by heads of family who
                    owned mortgaged property. Unemployed heads of family who still had some income, such as rents or
                    pensions, constituted the third group and single people with no dependents the next. Finally came
                    those people who had paid off their mortgages and had some equity to fall back on. In June, 1931,
                    the numbers in each category were 2,503; 601; 436; 1,305; and 166 respectively. As well as 
                  
                     52
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, October 17, 24, November 9, 1931.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., October 17, 1931.
               
                    
                    
                  —Outsiders Not Invited—
                  Reproduced from the 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, November 16, 1931.
                  Courtesy 
                                Fort Wayne
                             Public Library.
               
                     organizing work projects, ACEUC set up a Thrift Center to
                    coordinate donations of food and clothing from local charities.54
            
            There is little doubt that ACEUC had able, efficient leadership. Less than 5 percent of its budget
                    went to administration in 1931. Both PECE and POUR, as well as the state government, considered it
                    one of the best local relief organizations in Indiana.55 Yet ACEUC never came to
                    grips with the ever mounting problem of unemployment. In its first six months of operation only
                    3,724 of its 5,011 registrants received work placements. Moreover, some jobs lasted only a few days,
                    and a large number of people received just one placement. At best, reliefers worked four-day shifts
                    on an alternating weekly basis until a project was completed. Pay was only forty cents an hour.56 In the last quarter of 1931 the 1,570 people who received placements earned
                    $32 on average. During the same period the relief organization also spent
                    $33,753 in giving direct aid. Despite its emphasis on work relief, the relief committee
                    acknowledged that those in direst poverty, the aged, and the disabled needed some direct assistance.
                    This cash aid, intended to meet food, rental, and medical expenses, was distributed among a total of
                    2,354 families.57
            
            The voluntarist organization simply lacked the financial means to cope with the relief problem. As
                    the Depression progressed, fund raising became more difficult. About $40,000 in pledges
                    could not be collected after the winter drive of 1931, probably because donors had lost their jobs
                    or faced imminent unemployment. The 1932 campaign fell $50,000 short of its
                    $385,000 target.58 The shortcomings of voluntarism inevitably
                    necessitated the increase of public relief. Wayne Township spent $3,766 on poor relief
                    for 230 families in May, 1930. Within a year its monthly expenditure had risen to over
                    $10,000. Direct public aid shot up to over $31,000 per month in the harsh
                    winter of early 1932. Yet expenditure per case had dropped slightly in comparison to mid-1930
                    because aid was now spread among 2,904 families.59
            
            In September, 1931, a new body, the Federated Relief Agencies (FRA), was established to coordinate
                    public and private relief 
                  
                     54 "Report of the 
                                Allen County
                             Emergency Unemployment Committee, June 30, 1931," pp. 2–3,
                            Box 81, POUR Records.
                  
                     55
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal Gazette, May 14, 1932; Griswold to Hall, August 3, 1931, Box 181,
                            PECE Records; Fairbanks to Gifford, November 9, 1931, Box 245, POUR Records.
                  
                     56 "Report of the 
                                Allen County
                             Emergency Unemployment Committee, June 30, 1931," pp.
                            10–12, Box 81, POUR Records.
                  
                     57
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, January 13, 1932.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., June 24, 1932; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal Gazette, November 19, 1932.
                  
                     59
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, June 4,1930, October 27, 1931, April 22, 1932.
               
                     aid in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Members of the business community again enjoyed a dominant position on its board,
                    which Hall chaired. They used their influence to restrict the scope of public relief. Between
                    October, 1931, and April, 1932, Wayne Township spent a monthly average of only fourteen dollars on
                    each relief client, while Portage Township in 
                        South Bend
                     averaged twenty-seven dollars.60 Yet local politicians were
                    reluctant to increase public expenditure. Like their counterparts in virtually every Hoosier
                    community during the Depression, they were under intense pressure from the public to lower local tax
                    rates. In fact, tax delinquencies became a serious problem in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     as the Depression worsened.61 Confident that their opposition to
                    high municipal tax rates had popular support in this city of homeowners, local business leaders
                    later formed the Taxpayers Research Association in 1934. This body acted as a watchdog over
                    county-municipal finances and lobbied for tax reductions with considerable success for the remainder
                    of the Depression decade. The businessmen on its executive board had also been prominent in the
                    ACEUC and the FRA, with Hall playing his usual role of chairman.62
            
            The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and 
                        Allen County
                     governments decided to reduce nonrelief expenditures in order to avoid large tax
                    increases and still pay for escalating relief costs. Education bore the brunt of the first cuts.
                    Between 1930 and 1932 the number of teachers was reduced by 10 percent, salaries were cut by up to
                    25 percent, and increments were discontinued.63 In 1932, however, the city
                    council approved an overall reduction of 10 percent in municipal expenditure. The smaller
                    departments suffered disproportionately. The budgets of the Utilities Commission and the Airport
                    Commission were cut by 20 percent, while the City Plan Commission's finances were halved.
                    Yet every department had to economize. The police and fire departments suffered salary cuts and some
                    layoffs. As a result, the fire chief warned that it would no longer be possible to answer calls
                    outside city limits.64
            
            To the mayor's consternation, the 
                        Allen County
                     Tax Adjustment Board reduced the city tax rate still further, from $.70 to
                        
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., September 9, 1931, April 4, 1932.
                  
                     61
                            Ibid., February 3, 1932; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal Gazette, January 1, 1935.
                  
                     62 Taxpayers Research Association, First Annual Report,
                                1934 (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1934); Donald H. Berning, "A Political Study of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            " (A.B. thesis, Department of Government, Yale University, 1941),
                            81–82.
                  
                     63
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, March 28, 1932.
                  
                     64
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal Gazette, September 22, 24, 1932.
               
                    
                    
                  
                  DOWNTOWN FORT WAYNE, JUNE, 1930, SHOWING the FORT WAYNE CATHEDRAL in the UPPER RIGHT HAND CORNER, and the LINCOLN NATIONAL BANK TOWER, UNDER CONSTRUCTION, to the RIGHT of the ALLEN COUNTY COURTHOUSE
                  
                  Courtesy 
                                Fort Wayne
                             Public Library.
               
                     $.58, and lowered the overall assessment from
                    $2.64 to $2.25.65 This provoked some partisan bickering,
                    for Mayor Hosey and the Democrats claimed that the Republican-dominated board was intent on making
                    it impossible for them to run the city. Some councillors, who represented working-class districts
                    where unemployment was heavy, suggested issuing public bonds to cover the rising cost of relief or
                    applying for Reconstruction Finance Corporation loans to fund municipal work projects.66 Their proposals did not win wide support within the local Democratic party. Hosey
                    himself did not want to incur heavy debts, but from late 1932 onwards he did begin to see the
                    federal government as 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's best hope for salvation. He became active in support of the 
                        United States
                     Conference of Mayors (USCM), an organization formed in 1932 to represent cities with
                    over fifty thousand population. The USCM wanted Hoover to grant the cities low interest federal
                        loans.67 Many other 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Democrats still felt the city did not need outside aid. The editor of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    Journal Gazette warned against mortgaging the city's future and expressed
                    confidence that it could cope with the relief crisis through the present combination of voluntarist
                    and township aid.68
            
            Yet unemployment was still rising, and 
                        Fort Wayne
                     now had less money in its voluntary relief coffers than in 1931. In these circumstances
                    civic leaders resorted to new measures to underwrite the local relief effort. Several cities outside
                    Indiana, such as 
                  Ann Arbor, Atlanta, Richmond
               , and 
                        Knoxville
                    , had begun to print their own scrip money to pay relief workers.69
                    In 1932 a new state law enabled Hoosier counties to issue scrip to the value of one hundred thousand
                    dollars. 
                        Allen County
                     was the first to take advantage of this. Samuel Cleland, an attorney who was the
                    Democratic county commissioner, devised the scheme and enlisted business and labor support. His plan
                    was to introduce scrip gradually into the local economy. Initially two hundred reliefers, working
                    one shift in three, received three dollars of their weekly pay in scrip. They could use this money
                    to pay local taxes and municipal utility bills and to buy goods in a wide variety of stores 
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., October 11, 1932. For comments on the anti-urban bias of the 
                                Allen County
                             Tax Adjustment Board, see Virgil Sheppard, "Indiana Adopts a Tax
                            Law," National Municipal Review, XXI (November, 1932),
                            641–43.
                  
                     66
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal Gazette, October 13, November 25, 27, 1932.
                  
                     67
                            Ibid., May 26, 27, 1933; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, November 17, 1933; Gelfand, A Nation of
                                Cities, 52–54.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal Gazette, November 27, 1932.
                  
                     69 David M. Katzman, "
                                Ann Arbor
                            : Depression City," Michigan History, L (December,
                            1966), 314; Howard P. Chudacoff, The Evolution of American Urban Society
                            (2d ed., Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1981), 235.
               
                     that agreed to participate in the scheme. The city and county
                    governments and local retailers would then recirculate the scrip as part of their own
                    employees' wages. Some factory workers, including over five hundred at General Electric,
                    also volunteered to accept two dollars pay per week in scrip. Cleland hoped that the scheme would
                    eventually finance one thousand relief workers, who would therefore be removed from the
                    ACEUC's care.70
            
            The scrip plan was launched in March, 1933, and formed the basis of 
                        Allen County
                    's local contribution to federally funded relief work from June onwards. It was
                    scrapped in November when the federal Civilian Works Administration took over full responsibility
                    for work relief projects. By then about three thousand reliefers were receiving some scrip
                        payment.71 Once federal funds became available, the unemployed opposed
                    continuing the program. The skilled unions had disliked the plan from its inception. Cleland had
                    promised that their unemployed members should be paid scrip wages at the prevailing rates for their
                    trade, but the Democratic county administration did not honor this undertaking. In July the building
                    unions complained to the federal government that 
                        Allen County
                     had contravened the guidelines of the National Recovery Administration.72
            
            Before the advent of the New Deal, however, there had been few complaints about 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's relief system. The unemployed endured their plight with remarkable patience.
                    According to informed observers, the majority of the jobless preferred work relief to the dole.73 Although the demand for work relief continually exceeded the supply, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's unemployed were involved in only one serious public disturbance during the
                    Hoover era. In mid-1931 about three hundred people rioted in the Unemployment Center, breaking
                    windows and furniture after a rumor had circulated that the ACEUC had run out of funds. A single
                    policeman, aided by three foremen, soon succeeded in restoring order.74 Very few
                    of the unemployed turned in frustration to radical politics. One organization, the Unemployed
                    League, did promote 
                  
                     70 Samuel Cleland to Wayne Coy, March 23, 1933, Box 55, File (E),
                            Leslie Papers; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal Gazette, March 22, 1933.
                  
                     71
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, November 20, 1933.
                  
                     72 Harry McMillan to Frances Perkins, July 24, 1933, H.B. Dynes to
                            H.L. Kerwin, September 21, 1933, Box 176, File 281, Conciliation Service, 
                                United States
                             Department of Labor Records.
                  
                     73 See, for example, Cleland to Coy, March 22, 1933, Box 55, File (E),
                            Leslie Papers; "Report of the 
                                Allen County
                             Emergency Unemployment Committee, June 30, 1931," Box 81, POUR
                            Records.
                  
                     74 "Report of the 
                                Allen County
                             Emergency Unemployment Committee, June 30, 1931," p. 24, Box 81, POUR
                            Records.
               
                     the Communist party but never gained much influence in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .75
            
            The Depression provoked few Americans to challenge the existing economic system.76 The nature of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     community strengthened this tendency toward moderation. The city's population
                    was composed predominantly of "old" ethnic groups, which had long ago assimilated
                    traditional American beliefs. The rights of property were deeply embedded in the social values of a
                    community that had a high percentage of homeowners. Labor's radical spirit had been broken
                    during the postwar strikes. No doubt the emphasis of the voluntary relief effort on communal
                    solidarity also inhibited the growth of strong antibusiness feeling. In reality 
                        Fort Wayne
                     had no tradition of political radicalism to influence its response to the economic
                    crisis. The Summit City had experienced the surge of Progressive reformism before World War I, but
                    the character of this movement in Indiana was more moderate than in Minnesota or 
                        Wisconsin
                    , for example. During the early twentieth century sociocultural rather than economic
                    issues had preoccupied local interest in national politics.77 Both 
                        Fort Wayne
                     newspapers during 1932 were as interested in the Prohibition debate as in Republican
                    and Democratic policies to promote national economic recovery.78
            
            Many of the unemployed formed self-help organizations, which testified to the endurance of the
                    community's traditional social and political values during the Depression. In September,
                    1932, one group, acting with Samuel Cleland's help, established the 
                        Allen County
                     Unemployment Association (ACUA). This body ran its own educational campaign against
                    "un-American ideologies," strove to maintain discipline among the unemployed, put
                    on entertainments, and organized work relief. ACUA was entirely officered by the unemployed and soon
                    had well over five hundred members. It could provide regular work for about one hundred fifty people
                    each week, except in midwinter. With financial aid from the FRA, the association ran a fleet of
                    trucks that transported relief workers to jobs on 
                        Allen County
                     farms. Payment was received in kind. Among other items, ACUA had earned 151,575 pounds
                    of meat, 8,500 gallons of milk, and 9,740 bushels of vegetables 
                  
                     75
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal Gazette, March 17, 1934.
                  
                     76 Sternsher, Hitting Home, 6–14,
                            27–28.
                  
                     77 Clifford H. Scott, "
                                German
                            -Americans in World War I: A Cultural Flu Epidemic," Old
                                Fort News, XL (No. 1, 1977), passim; Lewandowski, "The
                            Warm Weather of 1919," passim; Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth,
                            1880–1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 127.
                  
                     78 See, for example, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, April 22, July 2, 11, 1932; Fort Wayne Journal
                                Gazette, October 8, November 9, 1932.
               
                     by February, 1933. The association also arranged to do many odd
                    jobs within 
                        Fort Wayne
                     itself. For example, it refurbished more than sixty unoccupied, run-down houses in
                    return for free accommodation for some of its members.79 According to Cleland,
                    "there is perhaps no organization in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     which has stressed more the need for patriotism, patience and fidelity to our own
                        institutions."80
            
            ACUA's example was copied by several small organizations formed in 1932 and 1933, notably
                    the 
                        Allen County
                     Relief Association, the 
                        Allen County
                     Veterans' Cooperative Association, and the Children's Relief
                    Association. These three bodies were not as well led or as efficiently organized; they folded in
                    1935, but the ACUA continued to operate until the end of the decade. Its membership did shrink in
                    the New Deal era, but it gave some employment to older people who could not obtain federal relief
                        work.81
            
            When the federal government finally took action to combat the Depression and deal with relief
                    following F#2 D. Roosevelt's election, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's business leaders welcomed the new policy. This change of heart was not
                    prompted by the growth of radicalism or by the breakdown of local relief but by a collapse of
                    confidence provoked by the banking crisis that hit the city. 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's eleven banks had weathered the initial crash relatively well, but a series
                    of failures reduced their numbers to seven by mid-1933. In part their problems stemmed from the
                    failure of some businesses to repay loans made during the prosperous 1920s. But local banks were
                    also heavily involved in the mortgage market, saddling them with too many nonliquid assets. Their
                    general policy before the 1930s had been to lend on mortgages and sell bonds, which were not
                    guaranteed, at lower rates of interest. Moreover, as the economic crisis deepened, the number of
                    foreclosures in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     shot up from the annual average of about 70 in the late 1920s to 612 in 1932. The
                    pattern was the same in the once prosperous farmlands near the city. 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's largest banks, the Old National Bank and the First National Bank, only
                    survived by merging in mid-1931. Even so, they needed aid from two other local establishments, which
                    purchased some of their mortgage holdings. The following year the suicide of a vice-president 
                  
                     79 Cleland to Coy, March 22, 1933, Box 55, File (E), Leslie Papers.
                  
                            80
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     81
                            Ibid.;
                            
                                Allen County
                             Relief Association Monthly Report, June 30, 1935, Udo Rail to T.E. Vance,
                            undated, Box 1, County Reports, Governor's Commission on Unemployment Relief
                            Records (Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library and
                            Historical Building).
               
                     precipitated the closure of the Citizens' Trust
                    Company. It was the banking panic in nearby Michigan that provoked the final crisis. Many citizens
                    rushed to take their money out of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     banks. As a result, the Old First National Bank failed in March, 1933, while the Dime
                    Trust and Savings Bank barely survived.82 The business community's
                    morale sunk to a low ebb. Some of its members had suffered heavy personal losses because of the
                    banking crisis.83 Confidence in local autonomy faded in these circumstances.
                    When the Hundred Days of feverish New Deal legislation began, virtually every leading business
                    enterprise in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     signed a public proclamation of support for Roosevelt. Hall himself expressed strong
                    admiration for the interventionist approach taken by the new president and Governor Paul V.
                        McNutt.84
            
            Every urban community in the 
                        United States
                     had faced up to the challenge of the Great Depression, but all had been found wanting. 
                        Fort Wayne
                     resorted to a variety of measures that encompassed private voluntarism, public aid,
                    scrip issue, and self-help. Within the limitations of their ideological precepts, civic leaders had
                    efficiently organized the local relief effort. The community had shown remarkable solidarity in its
                    hour of trial. Nevertheless, local resources were simply inadequate to deal with a nationwide
                    economic crisis of such magnitude as the Great Depression. 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's relief system may not have been on the verge of collapse in early 1933, but
                    there was a pervasive feeling that it could not go on much longer. Over five thousand families were
                    on relief in 
                        Allen County
                    . Voluntarist resources, which had never proved adequate, were patently in decline. The
                    future of township aid was also uncertain because property valuations, the basis for local tax
                    assessments, had declined by 20.4 percent in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     from 1930 to 1932.85 Cleland, normally an optimist, predicted in a
                    moment of despair that "the time is not far distant when we are going to be confronted with
                    riots and violence in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ."86
            
            
               
                  82 Division of Research and Statistics, "Confidential Report of a
                        Survey in 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Indiana, and Its Suburban Area for HOLC," September 24, 1937, City Survey
                        File, 1935–1940, Home Owners Loan Corporation Records, RG 195 (National Archives, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.), 3–6, 27–28; Hall to W.W. Zachary, June 12, 1931, Hall
                        Papers; 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        Journal Gazette, May 17, 1932; 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        News-Sentinel, February 23, 1933.
               
                  83 Richard V. Pierard, "Sylvanus F. Bowser" (
                            Fort Wayne
                        -
                            Allen County
                         Public Library Publication, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , 1964), no page number; Edward F. Scheumann, "
                            Fort Wayne
                        's Banking History" (unpublished manuscript, 1950, in 
                            Fort Wayne
                        -
                            Allen County
                         Public Library), 12.
               
                  84
                        
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        Journal Gazette, March 17,1933; Hall to McNutt, April 17, 19, 1933, Hall
                        Papers.
               
                  85
                        
                            Madison
                        , Indiana, 105; 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        Journal Gazette, January 1, 1935.
               
                  86 Quoted in 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana, 105.
            
            
            Faced with voluntarist failures, 
                        Fort Wayne
                     greeted the New Deal with gratitude and enthusiasm. In the spring of 1933 the city
                    stood poised on the threshold of a new era in its history. Outside forces and national influences,
                    operating through the complicated network of new federal agencies and legislation, would soon have a
                    major impact on the city. In these circumstances the consensus of 1933 soon collapsed as various
                    subgroups within this Hoosier urban community struggled to resist, support, or adapt to the
                    processes of change.
         
         
         
            "Life in the Wild":
            Three 
                        German
                     Letters from Indiana, 1852–1853
            Edited and Translated by Frederic Trautmann∗
            
            In 1852 and 1853 a 
                        German
                     resident in 
                        Allen County
                     wrote three letters about Indiana and the 
                        United States
                    . The letters were published in a collection of essays, letters, and newspaper extracts,
                    titled Atlantische Studien, von Deutschen in Amerika.
               1 The 
                        German
                     writer was inquisitive, literate, perceptive, and critical; and he discussed many
                    aspects of the land, the people, and the way of life. His letters are skillfully written and
                    provocative. Detailed, vivid, and scathing, they add up to a worthy description and a graphic
                    account.
            Yet the letters are as mysterious as they are valuable. Their author, addressee, and editor remain
                    unknown. The author signed himself Ddkd, the editor is not named, and attempts to identify them have
                    failed. The letters reveal the addressee only as a 
                        German
                     in the eastern 
                        United States
                     (a friend of Ddkd's) but nothing else. Nor is it known why Atlantische Studien was compiled, or for what audience it was intended, or how
                    Ddkd's letters came to be included. In sum, three letters and their anonymous author,
                    nameless editor, shadowy addressee, cryptic purpose, and arcane audience pose a riddle that defies
                    solution.
            
               
                  ∗ Frederic Trautmann is associate professor of speech at Temple
                        University, 
                            Philadelphia
                        .
               
                  1 See Atlantische Studien, von Deutschen in Amerika
                        [Transatlantic Studies by Germans in America] (8 vols., Göttingen, 1853), I,
                        43–49, 170–73, III, 161–66. This work has not been published in
                        English. In the interests of unity, coherence, and emphasis, some early sentences and phrases in
                        the first letter have been rearranged; and two passages from there have been inserted later, as
                        indicated by an ellipsis and footnotes. Long paragraphs have been broken into smaller ones.
                        Words in English in the original are italicized in the translation.
            
            
            
            
            Two inferences are possible. First, Ddkd might have been a Forty-Eighter. The Forty-Eighters were 
                        German
                     émigrés who had taken up arms for the Revolution of 1848 and fled
                    when it failed. Though some were ordinary citizens who had fought as common soldiers, the famous
                    ones were intellectuals and professionals, commanders of insurrectionist forces, and actually or
                    potentially prominent figures. The best remembered is Carl Schurz. In America, Forty-Eighters
                    entered various occupations. The exceptional Schurz had a multifarious career as political leader,
                    military officer, newspaperman, lecturer, author, diplomat, 
                        United States
                     senator, and secretary of the interior. Some Forty-Eighters, even ones who had never
                    before seen a plow or touched a hoe, became farmers—notably in 
                  Missouri, Illinois
               , Indiana, 
                        Iowa
                    , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Called "Latin farmers" because of their proficiency in the classics,
                    they could quote the Greeks and Romans while hacking at the wilderness and grubbing for a livelihood
                    from stubborn soil. Passages of Hesiod's Works and Days fell from their
                    lips more readily than trees before their axes. Notable was Friedrich Karl Hecker, quondam officer
                    in the Revolution, who farmed in southwestern 
                        Illinois
                    .2 Unlike hundreds of thousands of ordinary Germans who emigrated
                    for economic reasons in the 1850s, Forty-Eighters were mostly unwilling exiles; educated and
                    accomplished people seldom emigrated unless forced. Forty-Eighters loved 
                        Germany
                     and wanted not to leave it but to change it. Having fought to right its wrongs, most
                    Forty-Eighters would have preferred success and prominence in the 
                        Germany
                     they would have improved, instead of back-breaking labor on a continent they found
                    oppressed by ignorance and slavery.
            Ddkd, presumably male, sounds like such a man. In his third letter, dated June, 1853, he says he
                    arrived "four years ago," which corresponds to the coming of the Forty-Eighters.
                    And, though farming, he writes with subtlety, erudition, complexity, and skill not to be expected
                    from a lifelong farmer; he also quotes Latin. Furthermore, he seems to share with Forty-Eighters the
                    status of a displaced person, not a willing immigrant. At the end of the first letter, he appears
                    sad about "the forsaken fatherland" and seems to miss "loved
                    ones" and "many a good comrade," as if he is involuntarily separated from
                    them. Again, early in that letter, when rejecting the entreaty to come east, he speaks like a newly
                    arrived Forty-Eighter without American roots: he could have settled 
                  
                     2 For a description of life on Hecker's farm, see Frederic
                            Trautmann, "Eight Weeks on a 
                                St. Clair County
                             Farm: Letters by a Young 
                                German
                            ," Journal of the Illinois State Historical Society,
                            LXXV (Autumn, 1982), 162–78.
               
                     anywhere, and he wanted to avoid Forty-Eighters'
                    quarrels with established, Americanized Germans. He seems to have been urged to return to big-city
                    life. Moreover, throughout the letters, he expresses an anti-American anger common to many
                    Forty-Eighters who looked for high-mindedness, freedom, and culture in the 
                        United States
                     but instead found corruption, slavery, and chewing tobacco.3
            
            A second possible inference is that Atlantische Studien was published in response
                    to the controversy in 
                        Germany
                     over emigration. Mid-nineteenth-century Germans debated the wisdom of leaving the
                    homeland and of choosing the 
                        United States
                     as a place to settle.4 According to one writer the immigrant could
                    expect cheats and deadbeats everywhere in America.5 Another, after traveling to
                    the 
                        United States
                     to see for himself, reported chaos that passed for government, claiming that political
                    conditions were as wild as the most daring mind could imagine and as perverted as the most deviant
                    one might create.6 Others took an opposite position, such as Gottfried Duden,
                    who returned from America to argue for emigration because 
                        Germany
                     was overpopulated while America, particularly the Missouri River Valley, was a fine
                    place to settle and fulfill an immigrant's dream.7
                    Atlantische Studien is expressly and uniformly hostile to the 
                        United States
                     and thus represents the anti-emigration position.8 Perhaps its
                    editor and authors took refuge in anonymity to vent anti-American spleen. At any rate, Atlantische Studien appears intended for Germans curious about emigration to the 
                        United States
                    .
            Setting the tone in the first essay, "Illusions," a writer identified as
                    "B" says the collection's purpose is to dispel misconceptions and put
                    truth into the literature of emigration. America is 
                  
                     3 Carl Wittke, Refugees of Revolution: The 
                                    German
                                 Forty-Eighters in America (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1952), 71.
                  
                     4 John D. Barnhart, "The Ohio Valley Frontier," in
                            Thomas D. Clark, ed., Travels in the Old South: A Bibliography (3 vols.,
                                    
                        Norman, Oklahoma
                     , 1956), II, 4, 58.
                  
                     5 Ludwig Gall, Meine Auswanderung nach den Vereinigten
                                Staaten … (2 vols., Trier, 1922). Partly translated by Frederic
                            Trautmann, "Pennsylvania through a 
                                German
                            's Eyes," Pennsylvania Magazine of History and
                                Biography, CV (January, 1981), 35–65; and "
                                New York
                             through 
                                German
                             Eyes," 
                        
                                    New York
                                 History, LXII (October, 1981), 439–61.
                  
                     6 Friedrich Schmidt, Versuch über den
                                politischen Zustand der Vereinigten Staaten von Nord-Amerika …
                            (Stuttgart and Tübingen, 1822).
                  
                     7 Gottfried Duden, Bericht über eine Reise
                                nach den westlichen Staaten Nord-amerikas und einen mehrjährigen Aufenthalt
                                am 
                                    Missouri
                                 [in den Jahren 1824, '25, '26, und 1827] (Elberfeld,
                            1829); Gottfried Duden, Report on a Journey to the Western States of North
                                America and a Stay of Several Years along the 
                                    Missouri
                                 (during the Years 1824, '25, '26, and 1827), edited
                            and translated by James W. Goodrich et al. (
                        Columbia, Missouri
                     , 1980).
                  
                     8 Wittke calls the collection "unfriendly." Wittke,
                                Refugees of Revolution, 113.
               
                     a land of materialism and superstition. Morality is declining.
                    People flee corrupt cities for the frontier, which in turn is speedily corrupted. "If our
                    pages appear overloaded with murder, mayhem, and other bloody scenes, executions, shameless crimes,
                    and devastation of human life in the broadest sense, we cannot avoid such garish tales; they are
                    characteristic" (vol. I, p. 8).
            Ddkd, then, could be a Forty-Eighter joining the 
                        German
                     argument against emigration. Certainly he has little nice to say about Indiana or the 
                        United States
                    ; good is slight, evil great. Indeed, he resembles B's people who flee corrupt
                    cities for the frontier, which in turn is speedily corrupted. He rebukes the 
                        United States
                     for slavery, governmental ineptitude, political depravity, and the Fugitive Slave Act.
                    Disliking much about Indiana, he grumbles over money-grubbing and grouses at ignorant men, unruly
                    children, lazy women, barbarous table manners, and monotonous food. He does approve of the state
                    constitution adopted in 1851, claiming it represents tolerance, honesty, and respect for freedom,
                    qualities he finds and approves in Hoosiers generally.
            Ddkd's reproach and anger seem sincere. Neither a hack nor a blockhead but an excellent
                    stylist with a lot on his mind and the power to express it, he conveys complicated and significant
                    ideas with studied precision, measured nuance, and uncommon verve. His wit imparts energy, and his
                    irony adds color; his third letter is spiced with hilarious comments on ghosts and poltergeists,
                    while his first is disingenuously acid in referring to Yankees in "the incomparably
                    civilized East." Perhaps his attitude was biased, his viewpoint distorted, his judgment
                    skewed; maybe his words bite unfairly; and no doubt he abused Indiana and savaged the 
                        United States
                    . What he finds wrong with Germans—"Germanic nonsense," lack of
                    judgment, harmful imitativeness, and "other undesirable qualities"—matches
                    neither in amount nor severity his lashes at so much of Indiana and the 
                        United States
                    . But as his partiality is not absolute, so he is not an extremist. If he lacks balance,
                    he does not necessarily slight the truth. His observations, however one-sided, and his criticisms,
                    though caustic, deserve to be reprinted in English. And they deserve to be read as part of the
                    picture of life in mid-nineteenth-century Indiana and foreign reaction to it.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Allen County
                                 ,
                           
                                    September, 1852
                                
                        In your last letter, old friend, you urged me to abandon the West. Leave it for good,
                                    breathe big-city air in 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     or 
                                    
                                        New York
                                    , and things will seem more like Europe and home: that's what
                                    you said. Your intentions are good, I'm sure. But you can't be
                                    serious, you know me too well, so your plea must have been only a kind-hearted turn
                                    of phrase: that's what I think.
                        Perhaps, since I departed, much has changed to the advantage of Germans living in 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     and 
                                        New York
                                    . Nothing else could be expected after the incredible immigration and
                                    pullulation those cities have experienced.9 But I gather, from
                                    what I see in the news, that conditions are not attractive enough to lure me from
                                    here. Despite my fifty years, I don't want to be an objective observer in
                                    the East. I am too sanguine, and too proud of my national heritage, not to
                                        participate.10 I would also have to be afraid of Germanic
                                    nonsense, and of getting into party quarrels. Therefore, though I applaud European
                                    comfort, and appreciate the material pleasures, I would not be happy in the East. My
                                    spleen would be unnecessarily riled, even were I lucky enough to avoid the
                                    arguments, advanced for my own good, in favor of the freedom that remains there. Exempla sunt odiosa [Examples are offensive].11
                        
                        So I prefer life in the wild. Yes, it is secluded and withdrawn. You would dislike
                                    it. But do not assume I'm apathetic and unobservant. Raw Nature, wild in
                                    her dominion, offers much to peruse. And what could a dynamic thinker find more
                                    rewarding than to adapt to savage surroundings while studying, in the perspective of
                                    a wilderness, the problem of developing a useful, worthwhile life under these
                                    primitive conditions?12 […]
                        
                           
                              9 Adverse economic conditions brought masses of immigrants
                                        in the 1850s.
                           
                              10 In this unclear allusion, Ddkd may mean that in the
                                        East he could but watch helplessly the nation's political corruption,
                                        whereas here he can take part in the development of a new and more honest place
                                        and perhaps, in Wittke's words, "infuse Anglo-American
                                        civilization with a Germanizing process." Wittke, Refugees
                                            of Revolution, 74. Thus, near the end of this letter, he speaks of
                                        teaching his American neighbor the 
                                            German
                                         way with potatoes and rutabagas.
                           
                              11 This obscure paragraph probably refers to hardships
                                        suffered by recent 
                                            German
                                         immigrants and to strife among 
                                            German
                                        -American factions. Forty-Eighters, especially those whose academic
                                        training equipped them for artistic and literary careers rather than manual
                                        labor, found little work, particularly in the East. They took what jobs they
                                        could get, however menial; went hungry; and suffered other privation. Some died
                                        prematurely. Others committed suicide. Many, perhaps Ddkd too, seem to have gone
                                        South and West in search of a better life. Moreover, idealistic and high-minded
                                        Forty-Eighters questioned the 
                                            United States
                                        . Why was it neither as noble nor as free as they had expected? And
                                        political corruption and black slavery shocked and angered them. The
                                        Forty-Eighters' disillusionment intensified conflict with the older 
                                            German
                                         element that had accepted America and been assimilated. The
                                        resulting strife was fierce. See ibid., 71–75.
                           
                              12 These metaphysical remarks suggest that Ddkd had more
                                        intellectual training than most lifelong farmers.
                        
                        
                        Let me assure you, then, that in spite of hardship, I am still satisfied with the
                                    decision to settle in a forest in the hinterlands. I want yet to wrest my
                                    subsistence from Nature, like any backwoodsman. What on Earth is to be had without
                                    effort? If unfamiliar labor raises many a drop of sweat, I rest in the true dignity
                                    of a free and independent man.13
                        
                        Accordingly, I live in Indiana, which has a new and essentially humane constitution
                                    [the Constitution of 1851] that guarantees freedom to Indiana's people.
                                    Under the old one, in force when Indiana entered the Union in 1816, only American
                                    citizens could vote. Today, foreigners also have that right if, before the election,
                                    they have been in the 
                                        United States
                                     for a year, and in Indiana for six months; and if they have sworn their
                                    intent to become citizens.14
                        
                        The constitutions of most of the young states of the West and Northwest embody at
                                    least the possibility of such progress,15 and are more humanely
                                    and honestly written than the humbug behind the national government, a travesty of
                                    centralized administration.16 The lauded federal constitution
                                    was a modern, functional, manly, worthy robe of state; but the politicians of
                                    cupidity have infringed it to tatters, patched it with rags, and degraded it to the
                                    cloak of a scoundrel. True, since the promulgation of Indiana's new
                                    document, no blacks are supposed to have entered Indiana and settled, which may seem
                                    inhumane to their angry friends. But Indiana has never had many blacks.17 In the light of practicality, exclusion can be nothing but a
                                    boon to the state. For I 
                              
                                 13 Here, different from the typical "Latin
                                            farmer," Ddkd resembles Friedrich Karl Hecker, the Forty-Eighter
                                            who thrilled "like Cincinnatus of old in following the
                                            plow." Wittke, Refugees of Revolution, 117. Ddkd
                                            and Hecker favored Thoreau, who went to the woods to live deliberately, to
                                            face the essence of life, to learn what life had to teach, and to be plain,
                                            honest, and autonomous. Conversely, most Latin farmers failed, and few had
                                            anything positive to say about farming after they tried it. See ibid., 112–20.
                              
                                 14 The constitutional convention's provision
                                            for alien suffrage, Indiana's sole official act to promote
                                            immigration in the 1850s, may have encouraged Ddkd to settle here. See Emma
                                            Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                                                1850–1880 (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1965), 39–40, 60, 544. The granting of alien
                                            suffrage would have impressed a foreigner like Ddkd.
                              
                                 15 Ddkd likely means broadened suffrage and probably
                                            the exclusion of slavery.
                              
                                 16 The allusion seems to be to slavery and political
                                            corruption. In this paragraph and the next, he refers directly to slavery
                                            and, in the third letter, to corruption.
                              
                                 17 In 1820, 1,420 blacks, one percent of the state
                                            population, lived in Indiana; in 1850, there were 11,262, nine-tenths of one
                                            percent of the population. In 
                                                Allen County
                                            , there were 102 blacks in 1850. Article XIII of the
                                            Constitution of 1851 prohibited blacks from settling in Indiana, reflecting
                                            dominant white prejudices. Emma Lou Thornbrough, The Negro in
                                                Indiana: A Study of a Minority ([
                                                Indianapolis
                                            ], 1957), 44, 53, 63–68.
                           
                                     doubt that a state's sovereign people,
                                    who have never been involved with slavery, should atone for the sins of slavery in
                                    nearby states, and take in the depravity excreted by slave states. And I want to
                                    know how long the humanitarianism of our pro-black enthusiasts would last, were they
                                    asked to share bed and board with a treacherous Cato or a noisome Brutus;18 not all the blacks' defenders can be incurably
                                    infected with the abolitionist itch. Indiana is closed even to the free black? The
                                    rest of America, as well as other parts of the world, offer space and opportunity
                                    for him to feed himself.
                        Let it be clear, however, that in my charter for freedom, blacks are to be equal
                                    before the law.19 The Compromise [of 1850] and its provision
                                    against fugitive slaves, a mockery of humanity in the nineteenth century, could only
                                    be the brainchild of American mercantile greed, and the spawn of venal, shameless
                                        politicians.20 In the East, for example, Quakers (those
                                    hypocritical screwballs) are always trying to hire the free black. They tell the
                                    world they do it out of Christian charity for the poor devil. In fact, 
                                        Quaker
                                     merchant and Southern planter think alike, namely that the black
                                    endures onerous labor and, used to privation since birth, subsists on a minimum of
                                    cheap rations. In turn the free black, often born a slave, knows how low he stands
                                    in the eyes of the law. Therefore, though a human being, he is a tool in the hands
                                    of the sanctimonious sharpers.21 Because he produces
                                    incomparably better and takes ill much less in the mild climate of the East, he is
                                    more exploitable than a white of any national origin.
                        But let me speak again of where I live.
                        Indiana is still heavily forested and, compared to most new states of the West,
                                    thinly populated. At last count, 1,250,00022
                                    
                              
                                 18 Popular names for blacks, slave and free.
                              
                                 19 Forty-Eighters and Germans in general opposed
                                            slavery; but few, except Karl Heinzen, stood this firm for equal rights. See
                                            Wittke, Refugees of Revolution, 191–96. And
                                            Ddkd makes plain in the previous paragraph that his charter for freedom, and
                                            his idea of equality, have limits with respect to blacks.
                              
                                 20 Among the measures that composed the Compromise of
                                            1850 was the Fugitive Slave Act, which stiffened the original fugitive-slave
                                            statute of 1793. Americans of various antislavery persuasions denounced the
                                            Act of 1850 as unenforceable, iniquitous, and brutal. See Holman 
                                                Hamilton
                                            , Prologue to Conflict: The Crisis and Compromise
                                                of 1850 (
                                                New York
                                            , 1964).
                              
                                 21 Although Quakers supported humanitarian causes such
                                            as penal reform, and led the attack on slavery, Ddkd seems to feel that
                                            their mercantile pursuits outran their humanitarianism. "The
                                            popular conception of the 
                                                Quaker
                                             as a shrewd businessman has a long history and cannot be
                                            lightly dismissed." Frederick B. Tolles, Meeting House
                                                and Counting House: The 
                                                    Quaker
                                                 Merchants of Colonial 
                                                    Philadelphia
                                                , 1682–1763 (1948; rpt., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1963), 46. Calling Quakers "hypocritical
                                            screwballs," Ddkd appears to think them odd for their kind of
                                            religion.
                              
                                 22 The population figure is probably too high. The
                                            1850 federal census counted 988, 416 people in Indiana; the 1860 census
                                            listed 1,350,428. Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War
                                            Era, 537.
                           
                                     people lived in these approximately 1,800
                                    square miles. The soil is as fertile as could be wished; the forests yield an
                                    abundance of wood and lumber of all kinds; farming and especially cattle raising are
                                    plentiful sources of food; and the climate and the people's health are no
                                    worse than in the bordering states of Kentucky and 
                                        Ohio
                                    . So why does Indiana grow so slowly in relation to other states? The
                                    only explanation I can give is that Indiana's big landowners do not try to
                                    attract immigrants by spreading shameless lies in eastern ports: the humbug of the
                                    American West as a land of milk and honey, and promises of pots of gold. The
                                    township where I live may have 150 people.
                        This region possesses no great natural beauty; the West's wide-open spaces,
                                    at least those I've seen, are poor in beautiful scenes. The terrain is
                                    hilly. The prairie, extending northwest, provides for fresh, free-moving air and
                                    thus health to those who get used to the West's sudden changes in
                                    temperature. In big cities, businessmen and loiterers live near muddy rivers, turbid
                                    canals, and stagnant lakes; seal themselves hermetically against atmospheric
                                    influences, dress in flannel from head to foot; drink brandy, whiskey, and strong
                                    beer; even though the temperature may be in the seventies. I cannot recommend such
                                    practices. They are wrong and rural people's superior health proves how
                                    wrong they are. The country dweller, the American accustomed to shifts in the
                                    weather, wears nothing but homemade coats and trousers of light wool and a cotton
                                    shirt, defies the worst of heat and cold, and enjoys good health.
                        I do not deny, however, that even the strong and robust European who settles
                                    hereabouts must have bouts of fever until his body is used to drastic fluctuations
                                    in temperature. We are at the same latitude as the Caspian Sea but powerful
                                    northwest winds here destroy any similarity in climate. These prevailing American
                                    winds are probably caused by countless big and small lakes in the Northwest.
                        Beginning at 
                                        Buffalo
                                     and the farther west you go, the more pronounced the difference between
                                    cultivated land and forest. Such forests, sometimes impenetrable, are especially
                                    true of western [northeastern] Indiana, where I live. Scattered, lonely, log cabins
                                    and frame houses, and occasionally large fields of corn and wheat, stand at edges of
                                    expansive prairies or of clearings that display marks of plow and axe, and disclose
                                    the presence of sparse population. Everything is so uniform, so arranged to meet the
                                    most basic needs, so monotonous—like a Yankee on Sunday.23
                                    
                              
                                 23 By Yankee, Ddkd means old-time Anglo-Americans,
                                            especially New Englanders and their descendents. In passages elsewhere, he
                                            uses Yankee and native-born American interchangeably, as did many Germans in
                                            the 
                                                United States
                                             at the time.
                           
                                     Around here a poet must despair of producing
                                    the plainest prose. If he forsakes popular thoroughfares and trains and boats,
                                    pockets a compass, and strikes out on narrow paths through endless forest and across
                                    limitless prairie, he can expect any necessary inspiration from nothing but
                                    emptiness or perhaps from meeting a local bear out for a stroll.
                        
                           
                                        German
                                     settlers are mostly poor and generally Americanized in the way they
                                    eat. Americans have far too little sense for anything but moneymaking and the most
                                    essential—one might say the most primitive—of needs. When I
                                    found it convenient to build a little house in a garden some distance from where I
                                    live, several neighbors smiled at my airy garden house and asked if it was going to
                                    be a birdhouse. Many things, especially those outside usual life and habits, are
                                    likewise still foreign to American self-sufficiency. There is no variation in their
                                    lifestyle and enjoyment. Fried salt pork, corn, pancakes, cornbread prepared with
                                    baking soda (hence Yankees' melodious belching after a hearty meal),
                                    together with an awful extract of a weed supposed to be tea, or weak coffee in which
                                    the cracked beans float in pieces like shelled peas—that is what
                                    Americans eat day in and day out, and this amid a bounteous Nature that will yield
                                    anything to him who makes a little effort.
                        Accordingly, gardening and fruit-growing are on a very primitive level, and anything
                                    like horticulture is out of the question. In all my time in the West, I have never
                                    seen a pear, a cherry, or a European plum. Local vegetables include beans, cabbage,
                                    cucumbers, and turnips. Potatoes are also grown but certainly not as an essential
                                    food since the Yankee's indispensable nourishment is corn. He can live on
                                    it alone if he must. Potatoes have therefore come only recently into demand because
                                    of increasing numbers of Germans and Irish in the cities. Americans usually raise
                                    them on newly broken land that is wettest and richest in humus. The bigger the
                                    potatoes, the better (Americans think), because peeling small ones hinders fast
                                    eating. Recent 
                                        German
                                     immigrants, in their folly, are inclined to imitate this foolishness in
                                    raising potatoes. The low-nutrition Rohan variety, which we in 
                                        Germany
                                     would not even feed to animals, is all the rage here. This year, for
                                    the first time, I succeeded in persuading my neighbor, an intelligent and respected
                                    American, to stop raising potatoes in that pernicious way and to plant on higher,
                                    healthier ground, in soil mixed with sand.
                        I also gave him rutabaga seed and told him to sow it after Midsummer Day, to get
                                    winter rutabagas. In vain! He sowed in early spring and for quite a while his family
                                    has been gnawing at the big, yellow balls, for want of something better. The good
                                         fellow saw them served cooked at my house
                                    but said cooking was too much "trouble" for his missis.
                        Understandably, for Yankee women oppose work. Sporting clothes in the most garish
                                    colors—Kentucky women are particularly partial to them—such a
                                    woman often rocks mindlessly in a rocking chair all day long, Bible in hand,
                                    child—perhaps an infant, perhaps a year old or more—crying at
                                    her breast, eyes gazing skyward: such is the epitome of pleasure for the Yankee
                                    woman of the West. Only in this way she realizes her full dignity and follows her
                                    highest calling: idleness and childbearing. Immigrant Jewesses especially support
                                    such behavior most enthusiastically. Proper upbringing of children is out of the
                                    question, for the state of morality is too uncertain. When a Yankee urchin runs
                                    wild—good-bye, obedience! And when such an unruly child decides to
                                    misbehave, all these people's attachment to the Bible notwithstanding, it
                                    acts with extreme savagery to its parents.
                        Americans in general are praised for cleanliness of body and household. But if you
                                    look at what an American woman does, and remember that she usually has her
                                    husband's help with domestic chores, her work from day to day is little
                                    more than preparing meals. Whoever has eaten these breakfasts,
                                    dinners, and suppers will agree that preparing one takes
                                    scarcely a quarter of an hour. Friday or Saturday is usually washday and husband or
                                    a son is again called into service. Cotton cloth is so cheap here that no thought is
                                    given to mending clothes made of it: one shirt on one's back, the other
                                    drying on the line. Likewise, tablecloths and blankets. To be condemned, after a
                                    hard day's work, to spend the night in a Yankee bed with its well-known,
                                    checkerboard-pattern "quilts," is to remember or
                                    anticipate a bed of boards. This actually praiseworthy cleanliness causes the Yankee
                                    women little "trouble," to use the American
                                    term.
                        Cooking, keeping house, and mending in the true 
                                        German
                                     way are very much harder here. The good 
                                        German
                                     wife also helps her husband in many tasks, which would never occur to a
                                    genuine Yankee woman. But it is unpardonable when 
                                        German
                                     lack of judgment, and its tendency to imitate, copy the Yankee
                                    wife's insolence and lose sight of the virtue of tidiness. But we can hope
                                    that these and other undesirable qualities of an earlier and less responsible lot of 
                                        German
                                     immigrants will be offset by the example of the more-cultivated group
                                    now arriving here.
                        If I'm harsh, perhaps too harsh, in evaluating our countrymen in this
                                    hemisphere, I'm also awake to the disgraces of the dominant  race.24 What I have experienced
                                    here is in some ways different from what you have had occasion to observe in the
                                    incomparably civilized East. There the Yankee is at the apex of indolence; but
                                    something of a European polish has necessarily smoothed his rough edges, like gold
                                    plating over base metal. Still he is business-minded, greedy and, since he knows
                                    nothing else of value, exuberantly self-important. At the same time he is no less
                                    ignorant than his bucolic (one could say half-savage) yet not so insufferable
                                    brother in the West. Both kinds of Yankee are crafty and bright. Unfortunately they
                                    abhor knowledge not relevant to business and moneymaking. Intellectually lazy, they
                                    accommodate themselves to a Biblical notion of what 
                                        Providence
                                     has ordained. In this respect, at least as far as rationality is
                                    concerned, they seem to have come to a conclusion about political progress that
                                    aligns them with the humbuggers in 
                                        Baltimore
                                    .25
                        
                        The lamp dims and says, "Time to close." It must be midnight; the
                                    owl hoots loudly in the forest outside, a sign that the new day approaches. An
                                    almost deathlike hush prevails in Nature's endless expanses. Your friend is
                                    perhaps the only thinking being in a radius of miles hereabouts; and his
                                    thoughts—bright and keen—are of the forsaken fatherland, of
                                    his loved ones, and of many a good comrade.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Allen County
                                 ,
                           
                                    December, 1852
                                
                        You know from my last letter how western Americans are best described: not so much
                                    simple as uncouth. Which is no exaggeration. For example, they eat all fruit
                                    half-ripe. In summer and fall their physicians are therefore very busy treating all
                                    kinds 
                              
                                 24
                                            
                                                German
                                             intellectuals often looked down on American culture, and
                                            contention between Germans and Yankees was strong. See Wittke, Refugees of Revolution, 178–79; and Joseph Schafer,
                                            "Yankee and Teuton in 
                                                Wisconsin
                                            ," Wisconsin Magazine of History, VII
                                            (December, 1923), 161–63, 170. This paragraph has been inserted
                                            here from volume one, page forty-four of the original.
                              
                                 25 The major parties, Whigs and Democrats, held their
                                            conventions in 
                                                Baltimore
                                             in June, 1852. Both adopted conservative platforms, favoring
                                            the Compromise of 1850 and strict construction of the Constitution, but
                                            opposing international alliances, direct taxation, and high tariffs. On
                                            internal improvements the Whigs opposed federal participation, whereas the
                                            Democrats favored a modest federal program. Richard C. Bain and Judith H.
                                            Parris, Convention Decisions and Voting Records (2d ed., 
                                                Washington
                                            , D.C., 1973), 44–49; Robert A. Diamond et al., eds., National Party Platforms,
                                                1831–1972 (
                                                Washington
                                            , D.C., 1976), 29–31. Therefore, the platforms were
                                            at least as favorable to the South as to the North, particularly on the
                                            Fugitive Slave Act and tariffs. Ddkd probably called the conventioneers
                                            "humbuggers" because he felt their platforms compromised
                                            principles for the sake of party unity.
                           
                                     of dysentery that these Aesculapians noise
                                    abroad as cholera and for which they prescribe the most audacious medicines. Thus,
                                    at least in name, this malady shall not leave the West. With many Americans, since
                                    heavy tobacco-chewing has so blunted the taste that sour can scarcely be
                                    distinguished from sweet, the digestive system has probably been likewise
                                    desensitized, in some measure justifying the physicians' drastic measures.
                                    But many Americans who are not slaves to chewing tobacco are like savage Indians in
                                    their genuine loathing for quality food. The gentry or aristocracy around here are
                                    no exception. They claim for themselves the right to go about sometimes in
                                    outlandish dress because, with true 
                                        German
                                     philistinism, they judge a stranger's worth by the cut of his
                                    coat or, at least, by the value of his hat, without regard for what is under the
                                    hat. In essence, city dwellers in the nearby commercial center of [Fort] Wayne are
                                    no different.
                        I have occasionally come in contact with them through a 
                                        German
                                     doctor of jurisprudence. This capable young man learned the necessary
                                    English in a short time and, to Americans' amazement, passed the bar
                                    examination. He intended to earn his living as a lawyer. But to the American mind he
                                    was still not smart enough; for, here, intelligence and
                                    accomplishment lack clear definition and often amount to vulgarity and coarseness.
                                    Therefore the West has many lawyers who, with few exceptions, belong to a class of
                                    beasts whose natural history would fill many pages. Their ruthless avarice and
                                    callous greed are unmatched anywhere in the world, and their most disreputable
                                    counterparts in Prussia and Saxony are weak bunglers compared to these professional
                                    fiends. (I don't know whether your lawyers are any better in the East.) In
                                    short, this young J. D. had to give up trying to earn a living as a lawyer or, as
                                    they say here, trying "to make money." I visited him several times
                                    at his boardinghouse in Wayne and could observe that men and women
                                    of the city were as barbarous at table as were men and women of the country.
                        Yet it was 
                                        Wayne
                                    's most fashionable boardinghouse, run by a colonel's
                                    widow from 
                                        Virginia
                                    . Everything I saw confirmed what I had read in 
                                        Germany
                                     about how bad American food is and how hastily Americans eat it.
                                    (Cooked squirrels, incidentally, which can't be told from pups or rats,
                                    seem to be a delicacy here.) Everything was gobbled as fast as possible, and one
                                    guest after another threw to the winds his credentials as a gentleman and got up and
                                    left. In barely twenty-five minutes the food had been bolted and not a word uttered.
                                    Together with vulgarity and unedifying table talk came a generous helping of
                                    hypocrisy: at table, temperance was given perfunctory approval; but many of those
                                    gentlemen went directly from there to the grocer, who was well
                                    paid to leave  open a back door and provide an
                                    appropriate back room. There they play a dishonest game or tickle their palates with
                                    the repulsive brew they call brandy.
                        But let us return to the shady forests, where even the American is also a more
                                    wholesome and natural person than the urban moneyed aristocracy. Still, even in the
                                    backwoods, an army of drones and charlatans strives to confound the humbler farmers
                                    with incredible sectarian humbug.
                        Not long ago, in the forest near my home, Methodists held a large assembly, a
                                    so-called "camp meeting." About three thousand
                                    made temporary quarters under trees for several days and, with continual singing and
                                    praying, worked themselves into a frenzy. If you have not witnessed these
                                    shenanigans, it is hard to imagine what they are like. I noticed especially how the
                                    clerical scoundrels moved young women of marriageable age, and older ones, to the
                                    most passionate exaltation, to partake of the Holy Spirit, and to enter heaven on
                                    earth: the threshold of divine bliss. Paroxysms of laughter and cataleptic trances
                                    frequently overcome these creatures—proof positive to the singing and
                                    praying congregation that the Holy Spirit has descended on them. Then they are
                                    transported on the wooden platform they call heaven where their
                                    preachers rave like maniacs and foam at the mouth until their voices degenerate to
                                    hoarse roaring, their teeth rattle, and their arms fall lifelessly at their sides.
                                    Whoever is moved to mount this heaven of boards enters the presence of the Holy
                                    Spirit and rants wildly.
                        There is usually no lack of carnal delights during this spiritual gathering. Food and
                                    drink appear at regular intervals.
                        For all their strong sectarian passion, people in these forests are nonetheless
                                    tolerant. In that respect, even cultivated Germans could look to them as models.
                                    Religious conditions are not a factor in how people behave as neighbors and
                                    citizens. Theft is almost unknown hereabouts. Our homes, storehouses, and barns have
                                    no security beyond a simple bolt. If we kill a deer or other large animal in the
                                    forest and cannot immediately bring it away with us, a hunting knife stuck in its
                                    chest holds it for us unconditionally. More likely than theft is assault and
                                    battery—for revenge or because of a quarrel or, more often, in a burst of
                                    anger. No one need fear, however, that the rights of a free man will be infringed
                                    through brutality or any other means. The backwoodsman loves freedom and equality
                                    above all else, and he will see them observed for friends and neighbors. This axiom
                                    passes from father to son and is inviolable around here.
                        On the other hand, ignorance—of formal learning, other countries, and
                                    world events—abounds. People here have the most peculiar notions of "the old country," as they call Europe. A very
                                         capable farmer, basically an enlightened
                                    man, said to me: "I know all about kings. Kings don't wear hats
                                    like us folks; kings wear golden crowns and live in golden houses." And he
                                    began praising the low cost of American government. This honest farmer certainly
                                    knew nothing of the millions the leaders of this country annually swindle out of the
                                    American people.26 There are individuals in the forests of
                                    Indiana who have never seen a uniformed soldier. People here occasionally pride
                                    themselves on their forefathers' deeds and in their pride look down on all
                                    immigrants, who, to be sure, all too often act ignorant and boorish to Americans.
                                    Still, the American is never at a loss. With axe, gun, and knife he will feed
                                    himself and, sooner or later, in accord with the principal characteristic of his
                                    nation, be intent on business and "making money." These skills
                                    lead him to overrate himself much too readily, and he judges everything foreign by
                                    his limited education and simpler circumstances.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Allen County
                                 ,
                           
                                    June, 1853
                                
                        Commercialism and the mania for making money seem to have so gripped Americans that
                                    little else matters, and that they are less and less capable of other endeavor.
                                    Thus, for example, even in this thinly settled western region, a good Anglo-American
                                    farmer is as scarce as hen's teeth. For these calculating Yankees, awaiting
                                    the annual harvest is far too slow a way to make money, and to earn a living by
                                    working a farm is "too much trouble." Therefore,
                                    like a cat for a mouse, the Yankee waits for somebody to buy his farm. The quickest
                                    profit, however narrow, is always what he prefers; for he thus gets capital and the
                                    means to speculate. Always scheming, he breaks the blade of many a knife on the
                                    tough wood of his chair or table, from which he seems to whittle his thoughts. These
                                    farms, objects of speculation, betray at once to any knowledgeable person that they
                                    are nobody's permanent possession. Because the owner hopes daily for the
                                    Irishman or "Dutchman" who will buy the farm,
                                    and sometimes because of greed, sloth, or poverty, he often so neglects the farm
                                    except for planting. Yet, with American impudence, he will ask an almost
                                    unbelievable price. He justifies it with bombast that exceeds the bluster of
                                    landlords and small-time rural gentry in 
                                        Germany
                                    . When at last, after significantly lowering the price, he finds a buyer
                                    and the farm is sold, he heads west with bag and baggage. 
                              
                                 26 Probably a reference to widespread political
                                            corruption. See Allan Nevins, Ordeal of the Union (8
                                            vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1947), I, 165–70.
                           
                                     Long has he desired to move there, and there he
                                    hopes to find a true Eden; for America too has its share of fabulists whose
                                    publications (products of boneheaded American printers) disseminate to the ignorant
                                    the most incredible tales.
                        Until recently, old women, especially Germans, did a good business among Americans,
                                    telling fortunes and being otherwise clairvoyant. But since poltergeists have found
                                    their way to the western forests and into the pages of those silly papers, the
                                    popularity of female clairvoyants seems to have declined. Poltergeists have caused
                                    nonsense to take a different turn, and farmers around here have been made quite sick
                                    in the head. It is really too bad that this country is so poor in infamous spooky
                                    places—old castles, dilapidated monasteries, haunted houses,
                                    etc.—where these ghosts could find a more suitable home. Our fatherland, 
                                        Germany
                                    , has an excess of them, and a pretty penny could be turned if they
                                    could be exported. At present, ghosts here have to be satisfied to do their tricks
                                    on posts and fences.
                        Still, ghosts have been put to good use as messengers. Here it may be a father, or
                                    there a sister, who wants to know whether son or brother has arrived safely in
                                    California and will return in one piece and loaded with treasure. Among farmers in
                                    this region have spread the most remarkable yarns about California and other faraway
                                    states and territories: 
                              Texas,
                                            Oregon
                           , etc. In 
                                        California
                                    , they say, one planting of wheat suffices for three years and produces
                                    three harvests. People believe you can reap there without sowing. In southern 
                                        Texas
                                    , according to local fancy, cattle eat their fill in winter on grapes in
                                    the forests. People expect miracles in cattle-breeding there. Generally speaking,
                                    people here have as perverted a notion of the outlying parts of America as people in 
                                        Germany
                                     often have of America as a whole.
                        But when these gullible Americans reach the land of their dreams, they soon realize
                                    that their hoped-for Cockaigne has not been found and that, for better or worse,
                                    they must again take up plow and axe, and plant and prepare for winter. Minds
                                    therefore beginning to clear, they return to their old occupations and keep the
                                    trusty "rifle" at their sides, to be ready
                                    should desirable game appear or a band of Indians lust after guns and scalps.
                                    Thousands, partly encouraged by such humbug, annually leave their homes in the older
                                    states and make room for immigrants. The decline in wild animals confirms the growth
                                    of immigration. Last winter we had fewer lynx, bear, etc. Not even deer are as
                                    frequent as before.
                        A different group of migrants, businessmen from the cities, as well as doctors and
                                    lawyers, follow these movements west with more mature purpose than that of the army
                                    of farmers that preceded  them. Like wolves they
                                    track the trailblazers, after making over their former enterprises to new owners.
                                    Meanwhile, true wolves leave white settlement and attend their patrons, the Indians.
                        The businessmen begin migration with greater understanding and better equipment [than
                                    the first pioneers] and take ample supplies of everything they think will sell well
                                    in distant regions. Reaching spots they hope will favor mercantile operations, they
                                    set up gristmills and sawmills first, and build inns, general stores, and supply
                                    depots. Of course a parochial 
                                        German
                                     entrepreneur will have trouble picturing such a business when he hears
                                    that a hundred miles, perhaps more, from the limits of civilization and in the
                                    middle of a primeval forest you come upon a motley collection of sheds and
                                    mug-shaped buildings of boards or logs, usually near a river where crude gristmills
                                    and sawmills have been erected. However, several days a week, in and around these
                                    buildings, a veritable fair is held.
                        Enter one of the buildings, distinguished by size and the sign "Cheape Ware Store," and find all necessities of the civilized
                                    world in jumbled piles. Beside soft soap and lumps of butter or lard are fine
                                    fabrics from Saxony's mills. Above barrels of flour, sugar, coffee,
                                    whiskey, syrup, etc., are piled boots and shoes of all kinds. Beams are hung with
                                    dresses, stockings, shawls, saddles, bridles, and caps. Among them are to be seen
                                    ironware and tinware, under whose weight the beams threaten to snap. There is even
                                    jewelry: the play of light on large bundles of glass beads draws covetous glances
                                    from Indians. In this spacious building's every corner are stacked all
                                    kinds of raw animal skins. Farmers and Indians move among them, passing the whiskey
                                    bottle and waiting their turns to barter pelts and be humbugged by the smart
                                    storekeeper. At the mills, logs and grain are unloaded and, armed with receipts of
                                    delivery, farmers hurry to the store to exchange them for groceries, shoes, and
                                    clothing. Usually in remote regions a city develops from such a settlement. I
                                    believe I do not exaggerate when I say that, in many a country town in 
                                        Germany
                                    , not as much merchandise is to be found in all stores and shops
                                    combined as is sometimes available in the stock of one enterprising Yankee in a far
                                    corner of the West.
                        Such entrepreneurs are patron saints of slowly growing numbers of farmers in distant
                                    places. Farmers, often in a several days' journey to a store that supplies
                                    all their needs, bring hard-won fruits of labor and, one suspects, part with them at
                                    the lowest prices. The exchange is called "trade." Except Indians, nobody is more at the mercy of traders than
                                    the western farmer. Traders do business by lying and cheating, especially in grain.
                                    Still the  farmer must usually count himself
                                    lucky if the trader is kind enough to take his produce; the farmer has nowhere else
                                    to traffic unless he wants to travel a hundred miles to the first city on the edge
                                    of civilization. Drunken, negligent, and unfortunate farmers often mortgage property
                                    to traders and never get it back. Clever traders thus become land speculators, so
                                    notorious in the 
                                        United States
                                    .
                        If the corner of the world where the newly rich storekeepers and land speculators
                                    reap a tidy profit becomes a state, their friends impose them as senators and
                                    representatives on the people of the region in some spectacle of a convention. The
                                    last elections showed clearly the nature of grassroots democracy in its typical
                                    American form. Traders and speculators elected to public office have gotten what
                                    they wanted and can now play even more successfully at growing rich—at
                                    public expense. Indeed, a representative from 
                                        North Carolina
                                     said: "Money will put anything through Congress." It
                                    is possible that America has always lacked disinterested politicians and diverse
                                    viewpoints on great issues, and that this sort of politics has led, not to progress,
                                    but to deterioration in statecraft; for it increasingly regresses to what governs
                                    America: the business of filling politicians' pockets.
                        Were this description not true, it would be hard to imagine how, in 
                                        Washington
                                    , the fathers of the country could so grossly represent ignorance and
                                        turpitude.27 And it would be inexplicable how, without
                                    blushing, Americans dare praise the tin stars that flicker across their senatorial
                                    heaven. Americans hail those counterfeit luminaries as if they were the sun and the
                                    light of the world.28
                        
                        As an example of how an American in the West can attain public office, honor, and
                                    wisdom, take the career of Mr. H., now one of the most important land speculators
                                    around here.29 When 
                              
                                 27 Probably a reference to legislative paralysis and,
                                            again, to graft, bribery, and other corruption in Congress. See ibid., 163–70. This paragraph has been inserted here
                                            from volume one, page forty-four of the original.
                              
                                 28 Ddkd's sarcasm probably expresses his
                                            contempt for policies that produced the Compromise of 1850 and the Fugitive
                                            Slave Act in particular, and for southern (conservative and slave) power in
                                            the Senate—in Holman 
                                                Hamilton
                                            's words, "the stoutest remaining bastion of
                                            southern security." Holman 
                                                Hamilton
                                            , "Compromise of 1850," in David C. Roller and
                                            Robert W. Twyman, eds., The Encyclopedia of Southern
                                            History (
                                                Baton Rouge
                                            , 1979), 264.
                              
                                 29 Possibly Allen 
                                                Hamilton
                                            , who was born in 
                                                Ireland
                                             in 1798 and emigrated to Quebec in 1817. Arriving in 
                                                Fort Wayne
                                             in 1823, 
                                                Hamilton
                                             became deputy registrar of the land office but soon turned his
                                            attention toward the Indian trade. A commissioner for the extinguishment of
                                            the Miami title in Indiana in 1840, he also served as U.S. Indian agent to
                                            the Miamis from 1841 to 1844. Leon M. Gordon II, "The Red
                                            Man's Retreat from Northern Indiana," Indiana
                                                Magazine of History, XLVI (March, 1950), 47; Rebecca A. Shepherd
                                                et al., comps. and eds., A Biographical
                                                Directory of the Indiana General Assembly. Vol. I:
                                            1816–1899 (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1980), 161.
                           
                                     victory over the Miamis and Potawatomies ended
                                    Indian wars in the region, and a tract of land opened to white settlement, Mr. H.
                                    was a young loafer. He had an old silver watch and with its
                                    magical ticktock made the local Indian chief so desire the watch that he deeded Mr.
                                    H. two thousand acres of the best forest land for it, now part of the city of 
                                        Wayne
                                    . An old watch, which he sold a drunken savage, began Mr. H.'s
                                    fortune—his passport to esteem and public office.
                        Another example is Mr. La S., a French Canadian.30 He came to the
                                    area about ten years ago, crude and naive like most French Canadians. He married an
                                    Indian chief's widow, who soon died. Her heir, he got plenty of real estate
                                    and liquid assets. He, too, gained public office and honor through wealth. Last year
                                    the people elected him as a reform candidate, and he now sits in the legislature in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , where he probably chews the head of his cane, a pastime he has seemed
                                    to practice with virtuosity every time I've had the good fortune to see
                                    him.
                        It happens equally often that incompetents succeed in a career that in Europe
                                    requires strict academic preparation. If a young American fails in business and
                                    entertains no prospect for success in western adventures, he packs his bags and goes
                                    to an institution of higher learning in one of the big cities. He need stay only a
                                    year or at most a year and a half, to master the humbug of law or medicine. When I
                                    arrived here four years ago, a young butcher lived in the nearby town. He was
                                    dissatisfied with his earnings. One day I heard he had closed his doors and headed
                                    for 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     to become a doctor. The year had scarcely passed when the butcher
                                    returned with his medical degree. Thus empowered to kill people, he set up shop at
                                    once and, as would be expected, proved himself a successful dealer in burial plots.
                                    Doctors and lawyers supplement their income by dealing in land, grain, cattle, and
                                    hogs, wholesale and retail. Cash being scarce in the West, barter
                                    gives the business cliques latitude for lies and deceit.
                        Immigration is frequently handled by such companies, for it is known, a foreigner can
                                    win at law against an American only in the most favorable circumstances. Seldom is
                                    it thought worth the trouble to provide an interpreter in such court cases. On the
                                        
                              
                                 30 Probably Francis D. Lasselle
                                            (1807–1864). Born in 
                                    Monroe, Michigan
                                 , he
                                            moved to Indiana in 1825. A Democrat, Lasselle served in the Indiana House
                                            in 1853 and as 
                                                Allen County
                                             commissioner, 1854–1858. His second wife Catherine
                                            (Pocongaqua) was the daughter of Miami chief Jean B. Richardville and had
                                            been the widow of Francis LaFontaine (Topeah), civil chief of the Miami.
                                            Shepherd, Indiana General Assembly, I, 230; B. J.
                                            Griswold, The Pictorial History of 
                                                    Fort Wayne
                                                , Indiana: A Review of Two Centuries of Occupation of the
                                                Region about the Head of the Maumee River (2 vols., 
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1917), I, 380.
                           
                                     other hand it cannot be denied that Germans
                                    display an incredible stupidity in such matters and often comfort themselves with:
                                    "That's the way it is in this country." Bearing in mind
                                    poor laws, extremely defective legal procedures, and (besides dishonesty) ignorance
                                    on the part of American lawyers, nobody will think exaggerated the observation that
                                    nowhere is a trial a greater evil than in America when the contending parties are a
                                    foreigner and an American.
                        
                                    Ddkd
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            
               The Diary of Calvin Fletcher: A Review Essay
            Robert L. Jones∗
            
            
               The Diary of Calvin Fletcher. Volume IX, 1865–1866:
                        Including Letters to and from Calvin Fletcher. Edited by Gayle Thorn-brough and Paula
                    Corpuz. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1983. Pp. xxi, 602. Illustrations, notes, volume index,
                    cumulative index. $10.00.)
            Publication of the ninth and final volume of The Diary of Calvin Fletcher provides
                    an opportunity not only to review this volume but to comment on the entire project. Volume nine will
                    be of general interest for the light it throws on the reaction in 
                        Indianapolis
                     to the closing phase of the Civil War, the assassination of 
                        Lincoln
                    , and the adjustments necessarily being made in the aftermath of the conflict. For
                    Fletcher, it was a time when he was trying to reduce his responsibilities in the management of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Branch Banking Company so that he could work on his farm north of the city. There were
                    many days when he visited it twice and others when he put in manual labor during most of the
                    daylight hours. On March 30, 1866, just as he was reaching home, he was badly injured through being
                    thrown from a frightened mare and dragged some distance. In a month or so he was satisfied he had
                    recovered and so resumed his horseback trips to the farm. On May 13 he made his last diary entry. He
                    died May 26, apparently from complications arising out of his injury.
            Calvin Fletcher was born in Vermont in 1798 and left home in 1815 to seek his fortune. In 1817 he was
                    teaching school at 
                  
                     ∗ Robert L. Jones is professor of history emeritus, 
                                Marietta
                             College, 
                        Marietta, Ohio
                     . He is the author, most recently,
                            of History of Agriculture in Ohio to 1880 (
                        Kent, Ohio
                     , 1983).
               
                    
                    
                  Urbana, Ohio
               , and simultaneously reading law. At 
                        Urbana
                     he met Sarah Hill, whom he married in 1821, a few months after being admitted to the
                    Ohio bar. The couple shortly moved to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , arriving just a week before the first sale of lots in the new state capital. Fletcher
                    was immediately admitted to the Indiana bar and for over twenty years was a circuit-riding lawyer.
                    He gave up his legal practice entirely in 1846 because he was now a full-time banker. He had entered
                    banking by stages, the first phase being when the General Assembly in 1834 elected him a director of
                    the State Bank. In 1844 he became president of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     branch of the State Bank, which office he held until the charter of the State Bank
                    expired on December 31,1856. The next day he became president of a newly established private bank,
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Branch Banking Company ("the Fletcher and Sharpe bank") and remained so during the rest
                    of his life. He entered manhood with no financial resources, but he gradually built up a fortune
                    from his law practice, an associated debt-collection agency, his banking activities, land
                    speculation, and rather large-scale farming operations. When the Civil War income tax was levied, he
                    was revealed to be the wealthiest inhabitant of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He and Sarah had nine sons and two daughters, all of whom survived him, except Maria
                    who died in 1860 following childbirth and Miles who was killed in a railroad accident in 1862. Sarah
                    died in 1855 and in 1856 Fletcher married Keziah Price Lister, who had come from Maine a few years
                    earlier to teach in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     public schools. After his death she returned to New 
                        England
                    , where she died in 1899.
            The Diary as published includes a considerable volume of family correspondence, a
                    few journals kept by Sarah for brief periods, and some miscellaneous materials Fletcher thought
                    worth saving. The balance of the work—and by far the greater portion
                    thereof—is made up of Fletcher's entries. These he started in 1820 and continued
                    with gaps of varying length for about twenty years. From the early 1840s he made his notes usually
                    on a day-by-day basis, though occasionally, especially when he had been traveling, he would content
                    himself with a summary of what had taken place since his entry of a week or two earlier. Ultimately
                    his journal was a continuous record not only of what he had done or was doing but also of his
                    thinking. In the 1850s and 1860s he made a practice of ending the old year or beginning the new with
                    a recapitulation of the highlights of the preceding twelve months.
            The Diary furnishes an indispensable source of information for the history of 
                        Indianapolis
                     during its first forty-five years. For instance, it is of value for its description by
                    a practitioner of the problems of the legal profession in the early days. It is of great 
                    
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     interest for what is mentioned of the banking business,
                    especially as the viewpoint is not that of a politician or an economist but rather of an insider
                    involved in day-to-day detail. As Fletcher was for several years a trustee of the common schools of
                    the city, in which office he had wide responsibilities in hiring teachers, exercising discipline,
                    arranging examinations, engaging in visitations, and inspecting facilities, the Diary reveals much concerning these aspects of the educational system. Fletcher was deeply
                    involved in the activities of the considerable number of charitable and benevolent organizations in
                    the community. One of the best ways to piece together an account of the attempts to alleviate the
                    lot of the poor and the unfortunate would be to go through the Diary. Among the
                    other incidental values of the Diary to the local historian are many references to
                    entertainment, this comprising an assortment of games, picnics, concerts, circuses, patriotic
                    celebrations, horse races, fairs, and other events characteristic of the times.
            The Diary is likewise of worth for Indiana state history. Fletcher was a member of
                    the Indiana Senate from 1826 to 1833, but thereafter he held no state office. He was, however,
                    active in political matters as a promoter, as an organizer, and as a behind-the-scenes consultant.
                    His role as adviser was especially important during the Civil War, when Governor Oliver P. Morton
                    sought his opinion with respect to the Copperhead menace and other urgent matters. Fletcher was
                    especially identified with the temperance movement and subsequently with the Free Soil movement.
                    Outside the conventional political realm, he was identified with the promotion, construction, and
                    operation of several Indiana railroads, so that there is much scattered information on these
                    enterprises. As he was often away from 
                        Indianapolis
                     for legal or business reasons, and as he and members of his family made many journeys
                    to the East and elsewhere, the Diary in its entries and correspondence is
                    illuminating on travel in its various aspects from the days of sloshing on horseback along forest
                    trails to the time when trains were safe and reliable.
            Seeing that Fletcher was a lawyer, a banker, and a resident of 
                        Indianapolis
                     involved in multifarious activities, it may come as a surprise that what lay nearest
                    his heart was farming. During his Indiana years he had several farms, some operated by tenants, some
                    in partnership, some by supervised hired help, and some by his sons. His concentration was on
                    livestock, especially cattle and swine. He was scarcely an innovator in his practices, but he did
                    attempt to keep current with improvements, and he was attuned to market fluctuations. Other men in
                    his position would in all likelihood have become outright absentee landlords, but he fancied  himself as a farmer, in his sixties glorying in his continued
                    capacity to do a hard day's work in the field. There are so many references in the Diary to the inception, evolution, and outcome of his farm-related activities that
                    their cumulative effect is to make it essential to any study of Indiana agriculture.
            The Diary's importance extends far beyond the matters mentioned, important
                    though these were. Bit by bit it reveals the many facets of a man who was an exemplary citizen, a
                    hardworking and efficient businessman, and a dedicated self-improver. Fletcher had only a
                    common-school education, supplemented by his reading of law, but he was always interested in
                    learning. He subscribed to leading magazines and bought books—good ones,
                    too—on religion, travel, and other areas of knowledge. He and Keziah had frequent and
                    long discussions of what they were reading. He was greatly concerned that all his children should
                    have a sound education and therefore sent them off to schools (and sometimes colleges) in the East.
                    He was a friend to members of the black population when prevailing pro-Southern sentiments in the
                    city made any such association a rarity. He was always personally generous. One illustration thereof
                    is that it was long his practice to furnish every clergyman in the city a dressed hog at Christmas.
                    This might be taken as an example of a conspicuous benevolence, so it should be added that he made
                    frequent donations in money or kind to individuals and families he considered worthy of help and
                    even sometimes to the wholly undeserving.
            The Diary reveals much more of Fletcher than such externals. He had been brought up
                    in an environment in which the old 
                        Puritan
                     virtues were meaningful and respected, and he guided his entire life by adherence to
                    them. Though it would seem that he was not given to making a display of piety, he was deeply
                    religious. He was accordingly identified with various aspects of church work, including a quarter of
                    a century or so as a Sunday-school superintendent. He was bothered when he fell short of his
                    self-imposed standards and suffered remorse when, as not infrequently happened, he lost his temper
                    at some shortcoming or thoughtless act of one of his children.
            It was in the area of generational relationships that Fletcher had his worst problems. There were
                    often serious tensions as his children grew through adolescence into adulthood. Thus Lucy, his
                    younger daughter, was outspokenly opposed to his marriage to Keziah and was, as long as she remained
                    at home, a perennial trial to her stepmother and so to her father. Again, with Cooley, his eldest
                    son, there was a strained relationship over many years, this arising out of the fact that Cooley was
                    financially irresponsible, and so contracted debts which his father felt obliged to pay.  Fletcher had difficulties with most of his other sons as they were
                    growing up, because they resented his well-intentioned efforts to govern their lives. The parental
                    advice he gave was usually quite sound, but the boys tended to think that they were being hectored,
                    and sometimes said so. After they completed their formal education, Fletcher involved some of them
                    in his farming operations as subordinates or partners, but he would not trust their judgment or
                    respect their capacity, and so the enterprises as like as not ended in recriminations. While the
                    young men unquestionably made serious mistakes, an outsider might well conclude that the fault was
                    not all on their side, that indeed the root of the recurrent problem was that Fletcher did not or
                    perhaps could not see that they had grown up and had developed perspectives at variance with his.
            Among the interesting and thought-provoking aspects of the Diary is its revelation
                    of the problems of operating a large household in the days before modern conveniences. In
                    Sarah's time there were children of all ages, usually a couple of bound girls (supposedly a
                    help, but probably in some instances really just more adolescents to be looked after), a hired man
                    or two, and often guests. Perhaps there might be only one or two of these, but when there was a
                    religious conference in the city, there might be half a dozen or more. Fletcher got up early in the
                    morning to get the fires going, catch up on his reading and correspondence, and make his diary
                    entries, but Sarah ran the household. Nor was this management restricted to the indoors. It was
                    Sarah who looked after the making of maple sugar and who supervised and participated in the autumnal
                    hog butchering. Fletcher realized that Sarah was overworked, and thought it not quite proper that
                    this should be so, but he never did anything tangible to reduce her burdens. It is worth noting that
                    Keziah never allowed herself to become a slave to running the household.
            Such, then, are some of the impressions gained from a reading of the journal and its related
                    materials. The nine volumes, with their accompanying footnotes identifying personages and places or
                    explaining matters that might otherwise be puzzling or meaningless to a modern reader, run to 4,657
                    pages. Many a page, to be sure, is filled with inconsequential items. There is inevitably much
                    repetition and plenty of weather reports. If all such things are passed over, there remains a solid
                    core of worthwhile information. Accordingly, the Diary is a fundamental source for
                    the study of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Indiana in its era. It is also of great value for the business history of much of
                    the Middle West. It does not seem to have any rival in its class. The editing of the work is worthy
                    of the highest commendation, as has been recognized by a succession of reviewers.
            
            It is ironical that Fletcher, truly an archetype of leading citizen and successful businessman, will
                    be remembered not for his many notable achievements but for the Diary, and that he
                    will be a vital and believable personage to those who peruse its pages while his often more
                    conspicuous contemporaries will tend to become dimmer and dimmer figures in a receding past.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Ordinary People and Everyday Life: Perspectives on the New Social History.
                    Edited by James B. Gardner and George Rollie Adams. (
                        Nashville
                    : American Association for State and Local History, 1983. Pp. viii, 215. Illustrations,
                    notes, suggestions for additional reading, index. $17.95.)
            "The rise of social history has been the most dramatic development in American historical
                    research over the past two decades" (p. 3). That declaration—the opening
                    sentence of the first chapter—provides the rationale for this most recent volume from the
                    American Association for State and Local History. The nine essays collected here are based on
                    presentations the authors made in 1980–1981 to a series of AASLH seminars on current
                    historical scholarship. The editors explain that their goal is "to present various
                    perspectives on what the new social history is all about and where it seems to be going"
                    (p. vii). Among the book's targeted audiences the principal one seems to be
                    "museum and historical agency professionals who are responsible for conducting research and
                    for designing and implementing interpretive programs" (pp. vii-viii).
            The first chapter—Peter Stearns's "overview" of the new social
                    history—is followed by topical chapters dealing with race and ethnicity (by Howard
                    Rabinowitz); women's history (Elizabeth Pleck); urban history (Kathleen Conzen); rural
                    history (Robert Swierenga); family history (Maris Vinovskis); labor history (David Brody); politics
                    (Samuel Hays); and material culture (Barbara and Gary Carson). The essays are of uniformly high
                    quality and the accompanying notes and suggestions for additional reading provide a helpful (though
                    by no means exhaustive) guide to important publications in the various fields under review.
            Different readers will approach this book with different purposes, and many will probably choose to
                    read only the chapter(s) relevant to their own problems or projects. Persons who read the volume
                    straight through should be prepared for some repetition, since several authors besides Stearns try
                    their hands at defining the new social history. While all the essays have much to recommend them,
                    those examining ethnic, urban, rural, and labor history are perhaps the most effective in
                    accomplishing the editors' intention for the book.
            The Carsons' discussion of "Learning Social History from Artifacts" merits
                    special mention. Their observation that recent work  by social
                    historians has "invested … with new meaning" the "vast array
                    of everyday artifacts that bulk large in museum and historical society collections" (pp.
                    190–91) is a provocative notion with far-reaching implications. Their treatment of the
                    "psychology of learning by looking" should be required reading for historical
                    society and museum personnel responsible for planning exhibits, interpretive programs, and tours.
                    And academic social historians will profit from consideration of the argument that they
                    "can do worse than make common cause with students of material culture" (pp. 184,
                    183).
            This carefully edited and thoughtful collection of essays is highly recommended for public and
                    academic libraries, as well as for all organizations that have an historical dimension in their
                    programming.
            
               Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Robert G. Barrows
         
         
            
               Wooton Patent Desks: A Place for Everything and Everything in Its Place. Edited
                    by J. Camille Showalter and Janice Driesbach. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana State Museum, 1983. Pp. 94. Illustrations, figures, map, notes. Clothbound,
                    $20.00; paperbound, $10.00.)
            Wooton patent desks are the masterpieces of Indiana's nineteenth-century furniture industry.
                    Connoisseurs of Victorian furniture admire the handsome Wooton cabinetry and are fascinated by the
                    intricate internal arrangement of drawers and pigeonholes. Designed originally for commercial use,
                    Wooton desks were found in the offices of such Gilded Age notables as Ulysses Grant, Jay Gould, and
                    John D. Rockefeller. This book, actually a catalog for an exhibit produced jointly by the Oakland (
                        California
                    ) Museum and the Indiana State Museum, contains a series of essays that interpret Wooton
                    desks as important examples of Victorian material culture.
            In the introduction, Kenneth Ames links the Wooton desk with the Victorians' predilection
                    for order. Ames says that the desks helped to modernize the businessman by providing "a
                    place for everything." In "The Office in the 19th Century," Page Talbott
                    analyzes changes in spatial arrangement and furnishings that accompanied the transformation of
                    countinghouses into offices. In this context, the Wooton desk is seen as one in a series of
                    technological innovations that the Victorian businessman used to impose order on the workplace and
                    to cope with the complexity of industrialization.
            In a curatorial interpretation, Deborah Cooper documents the physical changes and variations in the
                    Wooton desk as it evolved.  She shows that the primary changes
                    were in ornamentation and style. Wooton resisted substantial alteration of the desk's form,
                    despite a threat from competitors who closely imitated his patented design. Eventually the
                    adaptation of office hardware and procedures, such as the typewriter and modular filing systems,
                    made Wooton's desk obsolete.
            Betty Lawson Walters describes William S. Wooton, furniture maker and 
                        Quaker
                     minister, and chronicles the Indiana firms that produced his desks. For most of its
                    twenty-odd years of production, the desk was made by Wooton's own 
                        Indianapolis
                     firm. Only when the desk's popularity declined did Wooton license a 
                        Richmond
                     factory to produce his design. The 
                        Richmond
                     factory workers are examined by Susan Dickey in "The Men Who Made the Wooton
                    Desks." Dickey also suggests some generalizations about the labor force of the Indiana
                    furniture industry.
            This book is amply illustrated, including sixteen sumptuous color plates. Both institutions and all
                    contributors deserve credit for the quality of this catalog, which should be interesting to anyone,
                    not just collectors of Victoriana.
            
               Hagley Museum and Library, 
                            Greenville
                        , Del. Lamont J. Hulse
         
         
            
               Gary, Indiana: A Pictorial History. By James B. Lane and Ronald D. Cohen.
                    (Norfolk, Va.: Donning Company, Publishers, 1983. Pp. 208. Illustrations, map, bibliography, index.
                    $14.95, plus mailing. [Book available from Indiana University Bookstore, 3400 
                        Broadway
                    , Gary, Indiana, 46408].)
            The Donning Company specializes in the production of urban pictorial histories underwritten by local
                    firms—in the case of Gary, Indiana, by the Gary Post-Tribune and the Bank of Indiana. The company has no distribution facilities and often
                    commissions authors who are not historians. Such is not the case with this book; James B. Lane and
                    Ronald D. Cohen are both reputable historians who have previously done research in the city and have
                    a sense of the community's history. Their skills and past experiences combine to make the
                    book superior to Donning's similar publications.
            Still, the authors have not totally solved the problems inherent in all pictorial histories, the
                    major one of which is organization. Lane and Cohen must explain and connect the book's
                    illustrations. The question is how can this best be accomplished. They chose to organize the book
                    chronologically into six chapters; chapters two and three cover ten years, chapters four and five
                    cover fifteen years, and chapter six covers twenty-two years. Each chapter is introduced by a
                    one-page essay, and the only other text  consists of
                    paragraph-length captions. This format allows approximately three to four images per page, providing
                    good explanations of the picture's context but sacrificing a sense of historical change.
            The lack of this sense of change is a particular problem in the study of Gary since its history is
                    short and all modern. A twentieth-century invention, Gary evolved from a planned company town of
                    ethnic immigrants to a predominantly black city in a sixty-year period. The major question is why
                    did this happen? Unfortunately, Gary, Indiana does not answer this question. Part
                    of the reason for this failure is the division of space. The years to 1929 occupy over half the book
                    while the most recent years, from 1961, are covered in a few pages. The earlier sections include
                    many pictures of ethnic groups at work, school, church, and play. The later ones show more blacks
                    involved, but the emphasis is upon political and social events. Oddly enough, in the last chapter
                    there is no picture of anyone at work, although there are two of picket lines. The impression
                    conveyed by the chapter is that Gary's major occupation is political campaigning. Perhaps
                    this impression is a reflection of the priorities of the 1970s as industrial growth reflected the
                    priorities of fifty years earlier. If so, the pictures may be a more accurate barometer of changing
                    attitudes than the text.
            Despite the limitations, Gary, Indiana is a useful book which ought not be
                    overlooked by those interested in the history of the city, region, or state.
            
               Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        
                Dwight W. Hoover
         
         
            
               History of Agriculture in Ohio to 1880. By Robert Leslie Jones.
                            (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1983. Pp. x, 416. Maps, illustrations, tables, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $15.00.)
            The last general history of Ohio agriculture appeared in 1900. Now Robert Leslie Jones has replaced
                    it with a massively detailed and thoroughly documented volume. Few states, surely not Indiana, have
                    any comparable history of their farming. Hoosiers should profit from this study of a near and
                    similar neighbor; it might properly inspire emulation.
            Jones chooses to focus on 
                        Ohio
                    's principal lines of commercial production as they developed through 1880. He
                    concludes then, because he perceives by that year "a shading into a new farmers'
                    age with somewhat different problems" (p. ix). That "shading" eludes
                    sharp, general definition but is illustrated by concrete changes that overtook various kinds of
                    production around 1880. In the dairy business, for example, Holsteins were starting to  attain acceptance by that date. At the same time wool producers,
                    discouraged by western and foreign competition, were looking for new opportunities, especially in
                    dairying. Other kinds of farming appear to have continued through 1880 without attaching any special
                    significance to the year, but Jones senses that Ohio agriculture in general left its pioneering
                    stage about then.
            Nine of the fourteen chapters in this book are essentially self-contained histories of particular
                    products. Emphasis in each case is given to technical innovations and markets. Tables compiled from
                    census reports show where Ohio ranked among the states in each kind of production, and just which
                    parts of Ohio produced what animals and crops most abundantly. Ample numbers support particular
                    facts about particular industries.
            A few more broadly conceived chapters consider the physical setting of Ohio agriculture, pioneer
                    farms, the "Old Cleared Farm" that followed primitive beginnings, introduction of
                    farm machines, and agricultural organizations. An epilogue takes up a few miscellaneous facts that
                    "do not logically fit into other chapters" (p. 313) and takes a general, though
                    very brief, view of the changes that Ohio farming had experienced by 1880. If any part of the book
                    ought to be expanded, it would be that parting overview.
            Perhaps, too, more could be said about farmers. They are part of this study, certainly, and sometimes
                    make an interesting impression, but get little extended description. Jones's observations
                    about their technical conservatism, equalitarian relations with workmen, and attitudes toward women
                    are tantalizing. So is his observation that some farmers, in Holmes, Tuscarawas, and Monroe
                    counties, made better cheese than other folk because "their standards of cleanliness
                    reflected the Swiss background" (p. 202). It would be good to know more about the estimable
                    Swiss in that lovely part of 
                        Ohio
                    . It would be good to know more in general about cultural variations among Ohio farmers.
            But this book properly focuses on its author's chief interests. It does that so well that
                    anyone who wants to know about farming, 
                        Ohio
                    , or both together should find it as enjoyable as it is instructive.
            
               Indiana University at 
                            South Bend
                        
                Donald B. Marti
         
         
            
               Black Southerners, 1619–1869. By John B. Boles. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1983. Pp. xi, 244. Illustration, bibliographic essay, index. $24.00).
            As John B. Boles reminds us, not all southerners were white. This slim volume succinctly synthesizes
                    over a decade of scholarship  on southern blacks from their
                    entry into Virginia in 1619 to their response to Emancipation in the late 1860s. Scholars will find
                    the bibliographic essay a useful guide to research that has been on the cutting edge of the
                    historical profession. Much of this work has been in response to specific questions, such as
                    "Which came first, racism or slavery?" Boles has used the issues raised as a
                    framework for developing his interpretation of the black experience.
            The book reveals how much the field has changed in recent years. The most important shift occurred in
                    the switch from writing from the perspective of the slaveholders to that of the slaves, a shift
                    stimulated by Stanley Elkins' portrayal of Sambo. Blacks are no longer viewed as passive
                    victims but as creative actors, building a community capable of ensuring their survival. The
                    consensus is that Melville Herskovits was more nearly correct than E. Franklin Frazier on the
                    question of African "survivals." An increased understanding of African culture has
                    resulted in a repudiation of the older "pie in the sky" view of black religion,
                    although Boles limits the element of black protest. An appreciation of African culture has also
                    promoted a view of Afro-American culture as the "after hours" creation of slaves
                    in their quarters, a development largely outside the influence of white society. The borrowing of
                    methodologies from other disciplines has encouraged comparative studies which have forced a
                    reevaluation of the harshness of American slavery. Demographic studies, in particular, have opened
                    up the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, allowing historians to overcome a static view of
                    slavery derived from their former emphasis upon the institution as it existed in its final decades.
            Boles sidesteps the issue of promiscuity among blacks. Early scholars believed that slavery
                    undermined the family and led to indiscriminate mating. The pendulum has recently swung in the
                    opposite direction, with historians claiming that slaves' sexual morality was healthier
                    than that of Victorian whites. Although the author mentions sanctions by the black church against
                    fornication and adultery, he does not discuss courtship patterns and prebridal pregnancy. He does
                    caution against romanticizing the notion of family stability, however, feeling that the custom of
                    exogamous marriage resulted in too many unions off the home plantation to permit the
                    "two-parents-present household" from ever having been the most common form in the
                    eighteenth century. A significant omission is the frequency—about 30 percent by the
                    mid-nineteenth century—with which slave marriages were broken by masters.
            Although Boles notes the pervasiveness of white racism, he sometimes glosses over its harsher
                    manifestations. For example,  the reader will look in vain for
                    mention of organized terrorist groups like the Jayhawkers or the Ku Klux Klan. This sanguine
                    approach may account for his conclusion: "perhaps it will be in the South after all that
                    racial harmony and justice will take deep root and prosper." Nevertheless, this is an
                    admirably lucid, comprehensive, and concise synthesis, and a useful addition to the shelves of
                    scholar and student alike.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Christie Farnham
         
         
            
               Mr. Madison's War: Politics, Diplomacy, and Warfare in the Early American
                        Republic, 1783–1830. By J.C.A. Stagg. (
                        Princeton
                    , N.J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1983. Pp. xviii, 538. Notes, appendix, index. Clothbound,
                    $50.00; paperbound, $18.50.)
            The War of 1812 has never had the hold on the national consciousness as the two major conflicts that
                    preceded and followed it: the American Revolution and the Civil War. The relative lack of interest
                    in the war is probably owing to its failure to resolve the stated principal problem that led to the
                    war: the impressment of American seamen by the British navy. Also, several brilliant victories were
                    offset by major disasters that left the two sides in a virtual stalemate at the end of the conflict.
            Most studies of the War of 1812 can be divided into two groups: studies on the causes of the war and
                    studies on military operations during the war. J.C.A. Stagg attempts to break from this pattern by
                    focusing on James 
                        Madison
                     and his political philosophy and on how he implemented that philosophy in conducting
                    the war. In a superbly researched and written volume, Stagg has managed to say something new about
                    an important period in American history.
            In his first two chapters, which cover the period 1783–1812 and occupy a full third of the
                    book, Stagg concentrates on two questions: "why James 
                        Madison
                     believed he could win a war against Great Britain, and win it, moreover, by seizing 
                        Canada
                    " and "why the war occurred when it did" (p. ix). Although
                    the author has a good discussion of the development of 
                        Madison
                    's thought after the Revolution and the place of 
                        Canada
                     in his thought, the analysis could have been strengthened with a discussion of the
                    allure of a Canadian conquest to many American leaders both before and during the Revolution. 
                        Madison
                     was greatly influenced by their ideas. In both cases, the conquest of 
                        Canada
                     failed, in Stagg's words "from the practical difficulties of waging a
                    Canadian war" (p. 502).
            The remaining two-thirds of Stagg's book is devoted to a discussion of several factors that
                    influenced the conduct of the  war, including state-federal
                    politics, diplomacy, Indian-white relations, and army operations. The author succeeds remarkably
                    well in integrating these important themes into a coherent story. Rather than emphasizing the
                    ineptness with which the Americans conducted the war, a popular approach to the War of 1812 among
                    historians from the time of Henry Adams, Stagg focuses on "a detailed study of what the 
                        Madison
                     administration intended to happen in the War of 1812, of how it translated this
                    intention into specific policies, and only then to consider what happened to those policies as they
                    were carried out" (p. x).
            While the study is well balanced, there are some problems. Some readers will be dismayed with the
                    harsh treatment of William Henry Harrison. Stagg portrays Harrison as an indecisive, incompetent
                    leader through the use of several quotations from his enemies, but a more balanced appraisal of
                    Harrison would have to include statements from his friends and discuss his accomplishments. It could
                    not have been simply blind luck that made Harrison the most successful commanding general in the
                    Northwest during the War of 1812.
            There are other weaknesses in Mr. Madison's War, although they are not
                    wholly the fault of the author. A select bibliography, a more detailed index, and maps would have
                    made the work more useful. The hefty price for the hardcover edition is a part of a disturbing trend
                    in the publishing world that might result in many worthy academic works not being published at all
                    or only being available to more affluent individuals and institutions.
            Despite these drawbacks, Mr. Madison's War is an important work that
                    deserves to be read and reread. Stagg has made a significant contribution to our understanding of
                    the history of the early American republic.
            
               Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Douglas E. Clanin
         
         
            
               Speaking of Abraham 
                            Lincoln
                        : The Man and His Meaning for Our Times. By Richard Nelson Current. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1983. Pp. 196. Notes, index. $17.50.)
            This volume contains eleven speeches which deal with the life and influence of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , delivered between 1955 and 1982 by the noted scholar, Richard Nelson Current. Eight of
                    these addresses were published previously. They discuss Daniel Webster as a political exemplar for
                    the younger Whig, President 
                        Lincoln
                     as a model and inspiration for his successors (Democratic and Republican), and
                    "recent 
                        Lincoln
                     scholarship" (p. 39). The last mentioned of these essays was written in 1960
                    and, unfortunately,  was not revised prior to republication.
                    Chapters which better stand the test of time deal with 
                        Lincoln
                    's maturing racial and ethnic views, his political ideals and sense of
                    America's mission, and a comparison of his effect on history with that of Mahatma Gandhi.
                    Current further argues that President 
                        Lincoln
                     acted with due restraint during the secession crisis and absolves him of blame for the
                    outbreak of civil war. (To support this assertion the author cites, among other sources, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal.) Once hostilities commenced, however, the president realized that
                    more than a union of states was at stake—and the Civil War was fought to demonstrate that
                    political ideals such as democracy and representative government could survive the challenge.
            The three essays here published for the first time deal with Thaddeus Stevens, George Bancroft, and
                    the conception of 
                        Lincoln
                     as a southerner. In a lecture delivered in 1972, Current attempts to restore 
                        Lincoln
                    's tarnished image as the Great Emancipator. While Stevens was an aggressive,
                    steadfast advocate of slave emancipation and the enrollment of black troops in the Union Army, 
                        Lincoln
                     lagged behind. But Current correctly emphasizes that their responsibilities were
                    incomparable. The president had to hold the nation together and enlist the aid of conservatives and
                    Radicals, War Democrats as well as moderate Republicans. He had to move cautiously, and his personal
                    feelings regarding racial issues encouraged him to do so. Current does not portray 
                        Lincoln
                     as an omniscient statesman because "it is naive to look for perfection in our
                    political leaders, either past or present" (p. 92).
            George Bancroft certainly understood this. The foremost historian of his time and a staunch Democrat,
                    Bancroft came to appreciate the contributions made by President 
                        Lincoln
                    , but he never truly grasped "the complexities of 
                        Lincoln
                    's personality" (p. 185). The chapter written in 1982 relating to
                    Bancroft's discourse at the public observance of 
                        Lincoln
                    's birthday in 1866 is most revealing.
            The essay Indianans will especially appreciate was also written in 1982. In "
                        Lincoln
                     the Southerner," Current disabuses the reader of the notion that 
                        Lincoln
                     (born in Kentucky of Virginian ancestry) developed a southern character and sentiments.
                    Instead, 
                        Lincoln
                     was well aware that his ancestors lived in Pennsylvania before emigrating to 
                        Virginia
                    , and he "developed an ambivalence toward his native state" (p. 155).
                    Although 
                        Lincoln
                     obviously had a stronger emotional attachment to Illinois than to the Hoosier state, he
                    "retained much more fond and vivid memories of Indiana than of 
                        Kentucky
                    " (p. 156). Current notes that while campaigning for Henry Clay in 1844, 
                        Lincoln
                     "revisited the  Indiana scenes of his
                    boyhood, and they inspired him to [pen] several stanzas of sentimental verse. Kentucky never had any
                    such effect on him" (p. 156). 
                        Lincoln
                     viewed himself as a westerner, not a southerner—although as a politician he
                    transcended sectionalism.
            The format of this volume precludes a unifying theme beyond the fact that all the essays pertain to
                    Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    . If the reader is seeking an elucidation of 
                        Lincoln
                     the man, he would be better served with a recent biography (or, indeed, with
                    Current's The 
                            Lincoln
                         Nobody Knows [1958]). But this volume serves its purpose. It is a worthy
                    contribution to 
                        Lincoln
                     scholarship—an expanding corpus which Current long ago correctly
                    characterized as "unexhausted and inexhaustible" (p. 39).
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Willard Carl Klunder
         
         
            
               The 
                            Lincoln
                         Murder Conspiracies …. By William Hanchett. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1983. Pp. 303. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $18.50.)
            As William Hanchett points out in the introduction to this fine book, most Americans have at least a
                    hazy notion of what transpired at Ford's Theater in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., on April 14, 1865, but very few understand the complex background of the
                    assassination of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    . Misconceptions and myths abound. Anyone who has ever taught American history has
                    listened to breathless students unfolding tales of various incredible conspiracies that explain this
                    event. Even scholarly accounts of the assassination have often contained factual errors and
                    questionable hypotheses.
            Part of the problem has been the lack of scholarly interest in the assassination. Hanchett shows how
                    amateurs and popularizers have dominated the historiography. The author argues that the
                    assassination was a political act that cannot be explained either by Booth's supposed
                    "madness" or by some deep-laid plot of government officials. Rather Booth and his
                    band of conspirators believed they had reason to hate the "tyrant" 
                        Lincoln
                     and acted to defend a long tradition of republican liberty, hi this way,
                    Booth's famous cry to the audience at Ford's Theater, "Sic
                        Semper Tyrannis," concisely defined the motivation behind the act.
            Hanchett's treatment of the charge that 
                        Lincoln
                    's death was part of a Confederate conspiracy contains little new information.
                    He gives only brief attention to the attempts by Radical Republicans to implicate Andrew Johnson in
                    the assassination and does not even mention the visits of Benjamin F. Butler and James M.  Ashley to Sanford Conover in the 
                        Washington
                     jail and their apparent attempts to suborn perjury among the inmates there.
            The book is strongest in dealing with the various conspiracy theories of the assassination. No one
                    can give credence to Otto Eisenschiml's theory about Edwin Stanton's involvement
                    in the assassination after Hanchett's careful dissection of the evidence. More important,
                    he shows how current conspiracy buffs, such as the creators of the 
                  
                            Lincoln
                         Conspiracy book and movie, have simply invented "sources."
                    But as Hanchett cogently observes, believers in conspiracy theories are seldom deterred by a
                    shortage of evidence. They merely assume that the conspirators destroyed critical information to
                    protect themselves. This very tenacity of belief makes it likely that even this excellent book will
                    probably have little impact on popular notions about 
                        Lincoln
                    's assassination.
            
               Anderson College, Anderson George C. Rable
         
         
            
               Blacks Diamonds: Life and Work in 
                            Iowa
                        's Coal Mining Communities, 1895–1925. By Dorothy
                    Schwieder. (Ames: Iowa State University Press, 1983. Pp. xiii, 203. Tables, illustrations, maps,
                    appendix, notes, bibliography, index. $18.95.)
            Dorothy Schwieder has written the first study of the Iowa coal-mining industry, paying particular
                    attention to the lives of the miners and their families. She surveyed available literature on the
                    industry nationally, the folkways and attitudes of immigrants, and the development of the United
                    Mine Workers Union. To give this material an Iowa cast, she conducted oral interviews with former
                    miners, their wives, and descendants as well as collected social and economic data on three small
                    mining communities. Her major Iowa documentation was state government reports and district union
                    records.
            Schwieder clearly defines the importance of her topic: coal mining in the years 1895–1925
                    was second only to agriculture in contributing to the state economy. The UMW was the largest union
                    ever to operate in the state and disbanded there only in the early 1950s. Because the first miners
                    were of eastern 
                        United States
                     and British origin, succeeded after 1890 primarily by Italians and Croatians, the
                    industry introduced ethnic pluralism to the state. Many former miners and their families settled in
                    larger Iowa cities after coal production there peaked in 1917.
            Ethnic historians will react to Schwieder's discussion of the Italian-American family. She
                    insists that the Iowa situation confirms the national studies on other topics but concludes that
                    Iowa Italians lived more comfortably and were less alienated from employer  and society than their northeastern factory counterparts. She cites as
                    evidence that, because mine work was seasonal, many took summer jobs and lived in cities like 
                        Chicago
                    —and returned to 
                        Iowa
                    . Also, the author attributes a greater economic role to women than is generally
                    perceived. The miner's wife cared for house and children, of course, but she also took in
                    three to five boarders at an average eight-dollar monthly charge per boarder. She sometimes earned
                    more than her husband, and her work was steady and nonseasonal. Nor was income from garden-grown
                    produce and midwifery negligible. The author found interviewees generally optimistic, probably
                    reflecting the Iowa expectation of owning the family home or a nearby rich farm.
            For Indiana readers this book substitutes for a comparable study of the Indiana coal-mining industry.
                    Indiana and Iowa are related not only through the UMW and miners moving from one state to the other
                    but also because the decline of Iowa mining in the 1920s led some former miners to find jobs at 
                        United States
                     Steel in Gary and Ball-Band in 
                        Mishawaka
                    , further enriching the economy and ethnic composition of this state.
            
               Marian College, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                James J. Divita
         
         
            
               Working for the Railroad: The Organization of Work in the Nineteenth Century. By
                    Walter Licht. (
                        Princeton
                    , N.J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1983. Pp. xx, 328. Notes, tables, illustrations, appendixes,
                    bibliography, index. $27.50.)
            With this study of rank and file employees of America's first big businesses, Walter Licht
                    has taken a long step toward closing a large and inexplicable gap in the history of
                    nineteenth-century railroading. He has also made a substantial contribution to American labor
                    history. At a time when workers' "cultures," strikes, and the
                    ever-popular Industrial Workers of the World absorb the attention of most scholars, Licht reminds
                    his readers of the central role of work in the lives and behavior of industrial employees.
            Licht asks the right questions. Who were the early railroad workers, how were they recruited and
                    compensated, what did they do, what difficulties did they face, and how did they live? By scouring
                    the records of early railway companies, the reminiscences of railroad employees, the reports of
                    various public agencies, and the many historians' studies of railroad companies and
                    railroad lore, he provides convincing but hardly definitive answers to most of these questions. In a
                    series of useful tables Licht documents wage levels, turnover, discharges, mobility, ethnicity, and
                    other pertinent subjects. In general, he finds that railroad workers lived hard and insecure lives.
                    They came from farm homes, reached  their highest positions
                    while still in their thirties, worked long hours, earned high but uncertain wages, chafed at
                    managerial directives and restraints, and often suffered death or disability in the performance of
                    their duties. In short, Licht concludes that railroad workers worked and lived much like most other
                    nineteenth-century industrial workers, despite the distinctive character of the railroad industry.
                    While much room remains for additional studies, Licht's research will be a benchmark for
                    all subsequent explorations of railroad labor in the nineteenth century.
            Of his many conclusions, Licht is most intrigued with the discovery that local superintendents and
                    foremen exercised virtually complete control over subordinate employees. They hired and fired and
                    disciplined at will. In effect, the corporate bureaucracies of the nineteenth century operated at
                    the lowest level, just as did the small factories and mines of the period. In his last chapter Licht
                    exploits this insight to explain the rise and success of trade unionism among railroad employees in
                    the years after the great strikes of 1877. He is fascinated by the phenomenon of workers demanding
                    the extension of bureaucratic procedures to the base of the corporate hierarchy. His analysis is
                    persuasive as far as it goes, but it is also incomplete and perplexing. It disregards several
                    relevant inquiries, most notably why corporate managers did not realize the disadvantages of
                    unsystematic, decentralized supervisory practices before the workers did. Licht seems to be arguing
                    that railroad executives were far less astute than manufacturing executives, a point that deserves
                    more thorough and detailed development. The last chapter therefore should be read as an invitation
                    to additional research, rather than an extension of the earlier material. The rest of the volume
                    will stand alone, a valuable examination of an important but little-known group that occupied center
                    stage in the drama of American industrial expansion.
            
               University of 
                     Akron, Akron, Ohio
                  
                Daniel Nelson
         
         
            
               
                  
                            German
                         Workers in Industrial 
                            Chicago
                        , 1850–1910: A Comparative Perspective. Edited by Hartmut Keil and
                    John B. Jentz. (Dekalb: Northern Illinois University Press, 1983. Pp. viii, 252. Illustrations,
                    maps, notes, tables, figures. $22.50.)
            A happy juxtaposition of the three-hundredth anniversary of 
                        German
                     emigration to North America and the growing influence of labor history is found in this
                    collection of thirteen essays that endeavors to discover the reality of immigrant 
                        German
                     working-class experience in ethnic 
                        Chicago
                    's golden age. In earlier form  these
                    essays were presented at a 1981 Newberry Library conference on "Working-Class Immigrants in
                    Industrializing 
                        Chicago
                    , 1850–1920," which in turn was the product of the "
                        Chicago
                     Project" at the American Institute of the University of Munich, funded by the
                    Volkswagen Foundation. Five of the papers represent the work of young 
                        German
                     scholars, eight are the product of recent doctoral students in the 
                        United States
                    , and all show the influence of Herbert Gutman and David Brody.
            No single thesis emerges to unite this baker's dozen, but a respect for 
                        German
                     immigrant workers and the radical political culture that emerged among some during this
                    period informs most essays. Hartmut Keil provides a useful introduction that seeks to unify the
                    various studies and place them within recent historiography. The papers are arranged in four major
                    groupings: the place of 
                        German
                     immigrant workers in American urban society, the changing character of industrial work
                    and worker adaptation, working-class neighborhoods and their everyday life, and radical politics and
                    culture. Most of the essays utilize local 
                        German
                    -language press, census and enumeration district material, and extant union and
                    political records. Most impressive is the section dealing with industrialization and the
                    transformation of work. James R. Barrett's study of the rival conceptions of economic
                    rationalization held by management and by butcher workmen and the consequent conflict waged on the
                    shop floor for control of the work process is a gem. Similarly insightful is John B.
                    Jentz's study of 
                        German
                    -American generational movement away from furniture making, which was losing its craft
                    basis, into the metal trades where new skilled work was surging. While based on a narrow 1882 
                        New York
                     sample of 
                        German
                     working-class family budgets, Dorothee Schneider's essay conies closest to
                    capturing the reality of immigrant working-class life: wives were desperate to make ends meet, half
                    of family income went for the most basic food, spouses fought over husbands' claims to beer
                    money, sickness was economically fatal, and running out from under accumulated rent was a survival
                    skill.
            This collection will be required reading for those interested in working-class culture, the dynamics
                    of industrialization, 
                        German
                    -Americans, and 
                        Chicago
                    . An index would be useful, however, as would information on the contributors. The
                    language issue merits greater attention, and one may also question the exclusion of religion from
                    consideration given the ritualistic behavior of many ethnic neighborhoods and organizations and the
                    millennial expectations of the radical faiths.
            
               Indiana University-Purdue University at 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                Clifford H. Scott
         
         
         
            
               Eerdmans' Handbook to Christianity in America. Edited by Mark A. Noll
                        et al. (Grand Rapids: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1983. Pp. xvi,
                    507. Illustrations, maps, figures, indexes. $24.95.)
            This is a denominational history book for a nondenomination. It writes the history of the Christian
                    church in America being certain that its own religious family is clearly and favorably traced. It
                    shows that its own religious family has been and is an especially reliable representative of the
                    historic faith. It shows where its own religious family went wrong at some points, indicating
                    present hazards and offering counsel. By setting up the extremes as rigid fundamentalism on one side
                    and unrestrained modernism on the other, the preferred religious family can claim to occupy a
                    sensible middle ground along with God, the Bible, Christianity Today, Wheaton,
                    Fuller, Billy Graham, the National Association of Evangelicals, and a network of conservative
                    parachurch organizations never quite willing to declare loyalty to any existing denomination. Here
                    they stand along with what they see as the best of America's religious past and a
                    substantial conservative constituency across most Protestant denominations. This stance is
                    especially apparent when the account describes the tension in the churches over evolution and
                    biblical criticism. In this book the mainline denominations and every attempt at theological
                    accommodation for the past 150 years have gone frittering away into modernism and earned their
                    statistical obituaries now being compiled. Meanwhile the preferred religious family of evangelicals,
                    along with a few embarrassingly overheated companions, have held the old biblical line and pressed
                    on to victories unlimited. So this book is not the best place to go for a comprehensive treatment of
                    mainline denominational history. It will serve its best purpose as a church history reader for
                    adherents to this large paradenomination needing to find its own roots and self identity.
            However, this is not a mere denominational book to be dismissed by its cultured despisers. Mark A.
                    Noll, Nathan O. Hatch, George M. Marsden, David F. Wells, and John D. Woodbridge offer the narrative
                    text; they are graduate level faculty members and able writers. Sixty-five contributors present
                    articles on specific subjects and include experts like Sydney Ahlstrom, Jay Dolan, David Harrell,
                    William Hutchison, and Martin Marty. One is required to say of such a compilation that it is uneven,
                    but the joyful surprise is that so many have taken care to distill a little gem of an article out of
                    a profound knowledge of the area assigned. The editors and publisher have gone far beyond assembling
                    a collection of words. They have actually integrated narrative text,  subject articles, inset quotations, generous illustrations, color in
                    both illustration and paper, and expert typographic layout to produce a book which is a pleasure to
                    read. For those who can handle history with some advocacy, who want a review of American church
                    history capable of keeping a reader awake and occasionally aggravated, who welcome more
                    understanding of the manifestations of religious life so visible on America's skylines and
                    roadside signs and radio and television, this book is warmly recommended.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                L. C. Rudolph
         
         
            
               John Foster Dulles: The Road to Power. By Ronald W. Pruessen. (
                        New York
                    : Free Press, 1982. Pp. xiv, 575. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $19.95.)
            If this first volume of his projected two-volume biography of John Foster Dulles is an accurate
                    indicator, Ronald W. Pruessen's work should be considered definitive, at least for this
                    generation of historians. Analyzing Dulles's life and thought from his birth in early 1888
                    until shortly before his appointment as Dwight D. Eisenhower's secretary of state in late
                    1952, Pruessen has produced a carefully researched, authoritatively argued study that deserves to be
                    read not only by 
                        United States
                     diplomatic historians but also by anyone interested in the international political
                    economy, in international organization, or in Republican politics in this century. This book is so
                    impressive, in fact, that Hoosiers can forgive the author for the inclusion of a humorous but
                    derogatory story about practicing law in Indiana in the 1880s, in which the lawyers
                    "earnestly engaged before the judge in contesting the ownership of a hog!" (p. 6).
            When he began his research, Pruessen expected "to fill in the details of a rough sketch of
                    Dulles as a rabid and unbalanced anticommunist, a megalomaniacal Presbyterian preacher, a viciously
                    partisan Republican, and a McCarthyite pushover" (p. 2). Instead, the "Dulles who
                    finally took form for me is a complex amalgam, many of whose characteristics have not really been
                    understood before" (p. 2). Pruessen convincingly portrays Dulles as a person whose concern
                    about world affairs "evidenced always a keen interest in the forest as well as the
                    trees" (p. 134), a leader with "a capacity for vision that was broader and deeper
                    than that of many in similar positions …" (p. 509).
            In numerous articles and speeches from the 1920s onward, in books like War, Peace and
                        Change (1939), and in his leadership during World War II on the National Council of
                    Churches' Commission on a Just and Durable Peace, Dulles sought to understand and explain
                    the causes of the world wars and economic crises of  his era and
                    to devise ways to prevent their recurrence in the future. The experience with the high tariff
                    policies of the interwar years, combined with his role as a Wall Street lawyer specializing in
                    international business, convinced him of the value of free trade and stable currencies. The
                    experience of World War II, combined with an abiding admiration for Woodrow Wilson, convinced him of
                    the need, in Pruessen's words, for "a strong mature 
                        United States
                     to accept its responsibilities. Americans, he felt, could lead others away from
                    economic autarchy and its inevitable political and military repercussions, could lead others toward
                    a more integrated and rational community of nations" (p. 263).
            Pruessen generally praises Dulles for his thinking about world affairs in the 1930s and early 1940s,
                    a time when Dulles emphasized the economic causes of war and warned of the dangers of moralism and
                    chauvinism in describing the Axis powers. The author is much more critical of Dulles's
                    stridently anti-Soviet stance in the late 1940s, of his "increasing tendency to fall prey
                    to the classic trap of confusing national interests with universally desirable goals" (pp.
                    505–506). In an excellent chapter that analyzes the reasons for Dulles's shift
                    to the Cold War position in 1945–1946, Pruessen suggests the importance of peer pressure
                    among policy makers in lining up against Russia. He also emphasizes Dulles's belief
                    "that Moscow was resisting, and blatantly resisting, the kinds of international reforms
                    which he wanted to see accomplished in the postwar era" (p. 289). While in his diplomatic
                    work for the Harry S. Truman administration Dulles "went far beyond any simplistic Cold
                    Warrior's style" (p. 337); in his speeches and articles he dealt with East-West
                    relations in black/white terms—a pattern that he would continue as secretary of state in
                    the 1950s.
            Unfortunately, Pruessen's otherwise excellent work is less than carefully edited. The book
                    is wordy and repetitive in places; symptomatic of the problem is that at least three quotes from
                    Dulles are used twice, and frequently the reader has the sense of having encountered a specific
                    point before. Properly edited, the volume would have been more impressive at 409 pages than it is
                    currently at 509. More awareness of the findings of other scholars, especially for the 1940s, might
                    also have strengthened the author's conclusions.
            
               Earlham College, 
                            Richmond
                        , Ind. Ralph B. Levering
         
         
            
               The Troubled Crusade: American Education, 1945–1980. By Diane
                    Ravitch. (
                        New York
                    : Basic Books, Inc., Publishers, 1983. Pp. xiii, 384. Notes, note on sources, index.
                    $19.95.)
            Diane Ravitch concludes her survey of American education since World War II on an upbeat note:
                    "Those who have labored  on behalf of American
                    education have seen so many barriers scaled, so much hatred dispelled, so many possibilities
                    remaining to provide the basis for future reconciliation. To believe in education is to believe in
                    the future, to believe in what may be accomplished through the disciplined use of intelligence,
                    allied with cooperation and good will" (p. 330). The Troubled Crusade is
                    hardly a celebration of the triumphs of modern schooling, however. On the contrary, it is a catalog
                    of the trials and tribulations of public schooling and higher education, with a central focus on the
                    battles in 
                        Washington
                    . Her thesis is that following World War II the locus of power shifted from the local
                    college and school system to the president, congress, and the supreme court.
            At war's end a myriad of school problems came to the nation's attention, and they
                    have remained to the present. Three issues were paramount: federal aid, church-state relations, and
                    racial justice. And they were interrelated. The Catholic Church opposed federal funding because
                    parochial schools were excluded, and this opposition, combined with conservative political forces,
                    prevented federal spending for two decades. Another battle was fought over the meaning and role of
                    progressive education, a legacy of earlier decades. While she applauds some of progressive
                    education's contributions, she sympathizes with those critics of the 1950s (and since) who
                    preferred a return to "intellectual development and mastery of subject matter" (p.
                    55). And they won, or did they?
            Her discussion of the influence of the Red Scare on education is concise, starting with an
                    explanation of the role of radical politics in the 1930s. She is less than sympathetic with the
                    purges, concluding that "when the rage for conformity ended, it was like a fever that
                    broke" (p. 113). The system had, after all, survived (but many teachers had not). Her
                    discussion of race and education, spread over two chapters, traces the move from desegregation to
                    affirmative action, from a civil rights consensus to conflict and confusion. Equally disturbing were
                    the changes taking place in higher education, particularly the campus rebellions in the 1960s. The
                    public schools were also plagued by criticism and disruption. By the 1970s, however, there was less
                    call for open classrooms and curriculum reform, and more interest in meeting the needs of the
                    handicapped, those who could not speak English, or who in other ways felt discriminated against. As
                    the 1980s opened, there were many answers but few solutions.
            
               The Troubled Crusade is a fascinating overview of the dominant issues that have
                    marked primary, secondary, and higher education during the last four decades. Ravitch is most
                    sensitive to the nuances of each issue. Yet there are problems. This is the story of court cases,
                    national legislative battles, and books and  articles. Children
                    do not appear. Teachers and classrooms are invisible. The success or failure of education cannot be
                    measured from such a lofty perch. Moreover, while discussing the background of many issues, such as
                    the Red Scare, she has little discussion of the changing socioeconomic context. What about the role
                    of corporate business interests, technology, changing job markets? Her liberal orientation prevents
                    her from seriously analyzing the sources and uses of power in American society. The dearth of
                    historical studies of American education since World War II makes this an important contribution,
                    but it is only an initial exploration.
            
               Indiana University Northwest, Gary Ronald D. Cohen
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period. 1815–1840. By R. C. Buley. 2 volumes. (
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1950; reissued, 
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, in association with the Indiana Historical Society, 1983.
                    Pp. xiii, viii, 632, 686. Illustrations, notes, maps, bibliographical essay, index. Set,
                    $40.00.) "It was spring in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , wet and cold, but nevertheless, spring." This first sentence of R. C.
                    Buley's Old Northwest should trap the reader: the 1,200 pages of text
                    that follow will easily hold all but the most anesthetized television devotee. The Old
                        Northwest is narrative history at its best, written with sparkling detail, involvement, and
                    enthusiasm, written in clear prose of well-crafted sentences, paragraphs, and chapters, written to
                    explain a subject of fundamental significance and large human interest. Buley's history of
                    the territories and states of the Old Northwest is largely a history of the people, of their
                    migration and settlement in the new land, their work and pleasure, sickness and health, family and
                    friends, schools and churches, travel and trade, politics and government. It is based on laborious
                    research in primary sources, particularly newspapers and travel accounts, all of which Buley used to
                    "read" the culture without falling prey to the overly romantic notions that often
                    attach to pioneer life. The Old Northwest lacks some of the quantitative,
                    analytical, and theoretical apparatus that marks the "new" social history of the
                    last two decades; yet, no other book tells more about pioneer life west of the Appalachians. The
                    committee that awarded The Old Northwest a Pulitzer Prize in 1950 made a wise and
                    enduring choice. This reissue again makes available a book that should be in every library and a
                    book that all interested in Indiana's history must read. Those who do  will likely argue that it is the very best book ever written about
                    Indiana. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Keep an Eye on That Mummy: A History of the Children's Museum of 
                            Indianapolis
                        . By Nancy Kriplen. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Children's Museum of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1982. Pp. xi, 217. Illustrations, bibliography, index. Paperbound, $8.95.)
                    Institutional histories are normally dry, stuffy affairs which can turn even the most vigorous
                    institutions into dull collections of names, dates, and challenges routinely faced and surmounted.
                    Not so with Nancy Kriplen's fine history of The Children's Museum of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the world's largest museum for children. An engaging mixture of anecdote and
                    factual narrative, Keep an Eye on That Mummy—the title comes from one
                    young visitor's admonition to museum staff members to "Keep an eye on that mummy
                    and let me know if anything strange happens"—traces the history of the museum from its
                    establishment in 1925 to the present. Gary L. Bailey, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
         
            The Indiana Magazine of History on Cassettes
            The Indiana Magazine of History is one of several Indiana history publications
                    available on cassettes. This project, begun in 1977, is funded by the Indiana Historical Society and
                    conducted in cooperation with the Division for the Blind and Physically Handicapped of the Indiana
                    State Library. Additional information is available from the director, Carol Horrell, Indiana
                    Historical Society, 315 West Ohio, Indianapolis, IN 46202.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
