
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 65, Issue 1, pages 1-78. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:65+issue:1+year:1969&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
      
      
         
         
            Conner 
                        Prairie
                     Pioneer Settlement and Museum∗
            
            Lorna Lutes Sylvester
            Indiana Territory was just over two years old in August, 1802. Carved from the Northwest Territory in
                    May, 1800, the new area included all but a sliver of the present state of Indiana, all of 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , about half of 
                        Michigan
                    , and a tiny section of 
                        Minnesota
                    . The territory's white population of approximately 6,5001
                    lived mainly in 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , Cahokia, Mackinac, 
                        Detroit
                    , Clark's Grant, 
                        Vincennes
                    , and a few other "scattered and isolated islands" of settlement
                    "entirely surrounded by a wide sea of green forest."2
            
            By 1802 settlements in the area eventually to become the state of Indiana formed a narrow crescent
                    beginning in the lower Whitewater Valley in the east, south along the
                        Ohio River, and up the 
                        Wabash
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                     in the west. Except for the sizable 
                        Vincennes
                     Tract, surrounding the town of 
                        Vincennes
                    ; the 150,000 acre Clark's Grant, opposite the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    ; the wedge shaped Gore in the east, which would be added to Indiana Territory in 1803;
                    and isolated patches of land granted to the whites by the Treaty of Greenville in 1795, the future
                    Hoosier State in 1802 was entirely Indian country. Here and there roamed the Piankashaw, Miami,
                    Shawnee, Wea, Kickapoo, Potawatomi; and in the territory's midsection, between the two
                    forks of White River, were the peaceful 
                        Delaware
                    . The estimated Indian population ranged from 5,000 to 25,000; whites numbered about
                        2,500.3 The country which is now central and northern Indiana was, in 1802,
                    "a continuous primeval wilderness …. There were no roads other than Indian
                    trails and buffalo traces, no boats except the softly gliding Indian canoes, no towns other than
                    straggling Indian villages, no inns between the white settlements…. It was veritably the
                    haunt of wild beasts and savage men."4
                    
                  
                     ∗ This is another in an illustrated series of articles
                            about interesting locations and events in Indiana. Conner 
                                Prairie
                             Pioneer Settlement and Museum is located on Allisonville Road (Highway 37-A)
                            south of 
                                Noblesville
                            , Indiana. During the spring and fall seasons, when the settlement is open to
                            the public only on Saturday and Sunday afternoons, the guides are members of the Conner 
                                Prairie
                             Pioneers, a local volunteer organization which participates in activities of
                            the museum. During the summer the settlement and museum are open Tuesdays through Saturdays
                            and Sunday afternoons, and guides are college students. Special rates for group tours by
                            appointment only. Further information concerning Conner 
                                Prairie
                             may be obtained by writing Conner 
                                Prairie
                             Pioneer Settlement and Museum, Conner's Lane, 
                                Noblesville
                            , Indiana 46060. Special thanks are extended to Richard A. Sampson, director of
                            the Conner 
                                Prairie
                             Museum, for his assistance in answering questions about this article.
                  
                     1 U.S., Second Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1800 (unpaged).
                  
                     2 John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), I, 97.
                  
                     3 U.S., Second Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1800 (unpaged).
                  
                     4 Charles N. Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness: John and
                                William Conner (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1937), 41.
               
                     Two missionaries to the 
                        Delaware
                     on White River further attested to the isolation of the area in
                    1802, "the 
                        Delaware
                     towns, of which there are nine in all, lie from four to five miles apart, and are
                    scattered along the river. After these towns come other settlements of Indian nations as for
                    instance, the Nanticoke, Schawanos and others. After that there is nothing but meadow-land as far as
                    the eye can reach, until the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    ."5
            
            In this wilderness in the 
                        Delaware
                     Indian country, about four miles south of the present site of 
                        Noblesville
                    , Indiana, "on a beautiful moonlight night, August 12, 1802 … with
                    only the aid of a French Canadian," William Conner completed the construction of a double
                    log cabin which was to serve as a home for his Indian wife and children and also as a trading
                        post.6 Located on the eastern side of the west fork of White
                    River at a point where the stream made a horseshoe bend, the cabin soon became a landmark
                    in the area. For several years Conner's trading post was the central market place for
                    Indians in the vicinity, and hundreds of furs left there for 
                        Cincinnati
                     via Conner's Trail to John Conner's store a few miles below 
                        Brookville
                    , Indiana.7
            
            John and William Conner were brothers who had come to the 
                        Delaware
                     country from 
                        Detroit
                     during the late eighteenth century. Both had married 
                        Delaware
                     women—William's wife being Chief Anderson's daughter,
                    Me-kinges—both had been licensed traders to the Indians even before building their
                    respective posts, and both were to be extremely influential in the development of Indiana Territory
                    and the Hoosier State. They served as guides on military and diplomatic missions, were interpreters
                    and advisers for many of the treaties removing Indian title to the land in eastern Indiana
                    Territory, fought in the War of 1812, served in the state legislature, helped select the site of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , founded towns, and operated numerous businesses in addition to the fur trade.8
            
            The Conner brothers had spent most of their lives in an Indian environment. Their parents, Richard
                    and Margaret Conner, were adopted members of the Shawnee tribe, Margaret having lived with the
                    Shawnee from childhood. John, William, their brothers, and their sister were raised among the
                    Christian 
                        Delaware
                     in the Moravian mission towns in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Michigan
                    . At the end of the Revolutionary War the Conner family was living near 
                        Detroit
                     where Richard Conner had acquired vast acres of farm land. Before the turn of the
                    century, however, John and William left their father's farms for the Indian country in what
                    was to become the state of Indiana. While 
                  
                     5 John Peter Kluge and Abraham Luckenbach to Jacob 
                                Van
                             Vleck, September 24, 1802, in Lawrence Henry Gipson (ed.), The
                                Moravian Indian Mission on White River: Diaries and Letters, May 5,
                                1799, to November 12, 1806 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXIII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1938), 476.
                  
                     6 Quoted in Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness, 46.
                  
                     7 Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness, 46-50. For map
                            of Conner's Trail see below, P. 3.
                  
                     8 Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness, 40, 42-43, and
                                passim.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from Charles N. Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness: John and William
                                Conner (
                                Indianapolis
                            : Indiana Historical Society, 1937.)
               
                     John eventually chose to locate in the Whitewater
                        Valley near the border between Indian and white territory, William and his wife,
                    Mekinges, settled in their double log cabin on the west fork of White
                        River near the 
                        Delaware
                     towns. Here scores of Indians came to trade their beaver, fox, raccoon, mink, otter,
                    muskrat, and other pelts for the Hudson Bay blankets, trade axes, knives, beads, and similar
                    paraphernalia which Conner stocked. Here Mekinges cared for their six children. From here William
                    left to serve with General William Henry Harrison as guide, interpreter, and soldier during the War
                    of 1812. And to this primitive log cabin in 1820 came Governor Jonathan Jennings and ten
                    commissioners appointed to select a site for the permanent seat of government in the four year old
                    state of Indiana.9
            
            The location selected was at the confluence of 
                        Fall Creek
                     and White River approximately fifteen miles south southeast of the
                    Conner cabin. By the Treaty of St. Mary's (New Purchase Treaty) at St. Mary's, 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1818, the 
                        United States
                     had removed Indian title to the land in central Indiana in which the Conner cabin and
                    the capital site were located. Both the Conner brothers had been extremely influential as
                    interpreters and advisers in securing Indian agreement to this treaty. Indeed, according to two of
                    the 
                        United States
                     commissioners, Jonathan Jennings and Lewis Cass, the Conners "had it in their
                    power to have prevented any purchase of Indian title to land on the waters of the White river
                        …."10 The Treaty of St. Mary's was particularly
                    significant for William, for by it the 
                        Delaware
                     agreed to leave Indiana for lands provided by the federal government west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    
                    River. According to tribal law an Indian wife must remain with her people, thus
                    Mekinges and the six children would leave with them. Conner himself could have accompanied his
                    wife—some white men married to Indian women did so—but William chose to remain
                    in Indiana.11
            
            The 
                        Delaware
                     had been given until 1821 to leave the state, but during the late summer of 1820 most
                    of the tribe gathered at the Conner cabin preparatory to departure. They left for the West in August
                    or September, accompanied by Mekinges and her children.12 Approximately three
                    months later, on November 30, 1820, Conner married Elizabeth Chapman, stepdaughter of John Finch who
                    had moved to the west fork of White River in 
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 9-12, 16-36, 40, 46-51, 68-82, 117-21.
                  
                     10 Jonathan Jennings to Senator James Noble, January 27, 1827; Lewis
                            Cass to Senator James Noble, January 20, 1823, in U.S., Senate Documents,
                            20 Cong., 2 Sess., Report 25, pp. 5-6.
                  
                     11 For text of the Treaty of St. Mary's see 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, VII, 188-89. Possibly Conner could have arranged
                            for his wife and children to remain in Indiana had he and/or she wished to do so. Indeed,
                            there is some evidence that he attempted to persuade Mekinges to stay, but she apparently
                            decided to go with her tribe. William Marshall, Conner's partner, accompanied his 
                                Delaware
                             wife to the lands west of the 
                                Mississippi
                            . Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness, 109-14, 121.
                  
                     12
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Indiana Centinel & Public Advertiser November 4, 1820, cited in
                            Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, I, 210n. At the time of departure Mekinges
                            took with her sixty ponies, and Conner had agreed to purchase her and the
                            children's interest in the 640 acres of land on White River.
                            Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness, 123-25.
               
                     the summer of 1819. Conner had first met Elizabeth on a trip to 
                        Connersville
                     earlier in 1819. According to one writer, whose wife was a great granddaughter of John
                    Conner, William was attracted to her even at this time, and the attraction became mutual after
                    Elizabeth moved to the White River country with her stepfather. The fur trader
                    and his new wife moved into the double log cabin which he had built for his Indian family eighteen
                    years before.13
            
            Three years later, however, Conner built a new home for Elizabeth—a two story, brick
                    structure, one of the first such buildings in the New Purchase area. Located approximately one mile
                    south of the cabin site and back from the river, the brick house sat on a small hill overlooking
                    rich river bottoms and the semicircular sweep of White River itself. According
                    to one historian the house was considered "elegant" and "remarkably
                    handsome" at the time of its construction, and he describes it as follows:
                        A center hall divides the house, disclosing at one end the broad sweep of the prairie farm
                            and providing at the other the usual mode of entrance from the land which leads to the main
                            road. On entering the yard the old well first meets the eye…. Spacious rooms with
                            a fireplace in each, open from the hall, and from it a graceful stairway leads to the second
                            floor, where there is a similar arrangement of rooms with a fireplace in each….
                            Adjoining the dining room on the south side of the hall is an old-fashioned kitchen
                            containing a spacious fireplace with an oven on one side. A staircase … leads to
                            a loft-like room above the kitchen.14
                  
                     William and Elizabeth Conner lived in this home until 1837 when they moved to a 150 acre
                    farm adjoining 
                        Noblesville
                    , Indiana. The circuit court of 
                        Hamilton County
                    —formed in 1823—also held its early sessions in the brick house,
                    as did the Board of County Commissioners.15
            
            Conner's interests in the new state of Indiana were by this time myriad. In 1823 in
                    conjunction with Josiah F. Polk he platted and founded the town of 
                        Noblesville
                     which soon became the county Seat of 
                        Hamilton County
                    . After John Conner's death in 1826 William maintained the operation of his
                    brother's store in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , his mills in 
                        Hamilton
                     and 
                        Fayette
                     counties (including wool carding, gristmill, sawmill, and distillery), his two farms
                    and two town lots. William also served as a member of the Association for the Improvement of Common
                    Schools in Indiana, as commissioner to lay out a road from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , and as a charter member of the Indiana Historical Society He still Saw occasional
                    service as an interpreter in treaty negotiations with the Indians. He also served in the state House
                    of Representatives for three terms (1829-1830, 1831-1832, 1836-1837) and accompanied the Indiana
                    militia as a guide during Black Hawk's War in 1832.16
            
            
               
                  13 Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness, 113, 116, 126-28.
               
                  14
                        Ibid., 133-34.
               
                  15
                        Ibid., 135-36, 175-76.
               
                  16
                        Ibid., 135-36, 158-75; Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough, Indiana Election Returns, 1816-1851 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XL; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1960), 202, 208, 232; Proceedings of the Indiana Historical Society,
                            1830-1886 (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. I, No. 1; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1897), 13.
            
            
            When Conner and his wife Elizabeth moved from their brick home on White River to 
                        Noblesville
                     in 1837, he liquidated many of his businesses. Until approximately the time of his
                    death in 1855, however, he maintained his interest in internal improvements in
                    Indiana—roads, canals, and railroads— operated a sawand gristmill about four
                    miles north of 
                        Noblesville
                    , conducted a general store on the west side of the public square in that town, and
                    managed nearly three thousand acres of land which he owned in 
                        Hamilton
                    , Cass, 
                        Wabash
                    , and 
                        Marion
                     counties. When Conner died at the age of seventy-eight, he was survived by his wife,
                    nine of their ten children, and a burgeoning state which owed more to his resourcefulness,
                    enterprise, and energy than most of its citizens would ever realize.17
            
            Not until May, 1855, about three months prior to his death, did Conner become sole owner in fee
                    simple of the land on White River on which he had built his first cabin and
                    brick home. He had settled there while the area was still Indian country, but when the land passed
                    to the federal government by the Treaty of St. Mary's, the Conner homestead should have
                    been reserved to him, as similar acreage was to other individuals in like situations. Conner,
                    however, when assured that the government would make adjustments later, agreed to postpone his
                    claim. "Later" proved to be thirty-seven years and many legal maneuverings in the
                        future.18
            
            After Conner's death the land on White River had a number of owners,
                    and during the twentieth century the house was allowed to deteriorate. This neglect and the passage
                    of time almost erased the original dignity and simplicity of the Conner homestead. In 1933, 110
                    years after its construction, Eli Lilly, then president of the Indiana Historical Society, purchased
                    the brick house and surrounding acres. After careful and painstaking restoration of the original
                    structure the house was opened to the public on a limited basis. Guests there could see the Jacob
                    Cox portraits of William and Elizabeth Conner as well as furnishings and memorabilia of the Conners
                    and of the period in which they lived. In 1964, after further restoration, Mr. Lilly presented the
                    Conner 
                        Prairie
                     Settlement to Earlham College to be operated as a permanent historical museum.
            Visitors to Conner 
                        Prairie
                     today enter the settlement through a pioneer museum which houses a 150 year old dugout
                    canoe, exhibits depicting frontier farming and the life of William Conner, and a collection of early
                    farm implements, a gift of the Purdue Agricultural Alumni Association. From the museum,
                    guides—dressed in apparel typical of the early 1800s— conduct tours through a
                    log barn, containing a covered wagon and other farm equipment of the period, and a log cabin and log
                    trading post representing the double cabin and trading post which Conner had during the 
                  
                     17 Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness, 175-79; Richard
                            A. Sampson to Lorna Lutes Sylvester, January 30, 1969.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 106-10.
               
                     early nineteenth century.19 As the tour is
                    routed, next come a log distillery and springhouse and a board and batten loom house, which contains
                    all the equipment needed by the pioneer housewife to card, spin, and weave her cloth. (The log
                    buildings in Conner 
                        Prairie
                     Settlement were moved there from 
                        Brown County
                    , Indiana; the loom house came from the south edge of Carmel, Indiana.) In these
                    buildings Conner 
                        Prairie
                     guides demonstrate the uses of the items on display. Visitors can see how an early
                    flintlock rifle was loaded and how candles were dipped, how flax or wool was carded, spun on the old
                    spinning wheels, then woven into cloth on the large looms. In the kitchen of the brick house meat
                    will probably be roasting on the fireplace spit, and possibly bread will be baking in the unique
                    beehive oven. Only in the old distillery—which was plugged by the State Alcoholic
                    Beverages Commission—will there be no demonstrations.
            And as the present day guests step out of the old brick house onto the front veranda—added
                    at the time of the restoration in the 1930s— they may well agree with an earlier visitor
                    to the Conner home who wrote, "I never beheld a more delightful scene than when I looked
                    down … on a field of three hundred acres of waving corn, some two feet high, with fifteen
                    or twenty merry plowmen scattered over it at work." This writer entered the house
                    "out of nature's forest, only broken by the occasional cabins and small patches of
                    cleared land of the early settlers."20 Today's visitor enters
                    from the hurried and harried activity of the twentieth century, but the peace, dignity, simplicity,
                    and beauty of William Conner's homestead has endured for almost 150 years and is still
                    there to touch him.
            
               
                  19 Although Conner's trading post and home were apparently in one
                        double log cabin, they are represented by two separate structures in Conner 
                            Prairie
                         Settlement today.
               
                  20 Nathaniel Bolton, A Lecture Delivered before the Indiana
                            Historical Society on the Early History of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and Central Indiana … (Indiana Historical Society Publications,
                        Vol. I, No. 5; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1897), 173.
            
            
            The pictures on the following pages illustrate various aspects of the Conner 
                        Prairie
                     Pioneer Settlement and Museum. They were selected and provided by Richard A. Sampson,
                    director of the Conner 
                        Prairie
                     Museum. Pictures on pages 9 and 10 were reproduced from Charles N. Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness: John and William Conner (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1937). Photographs on pages 11-15, 17, and 19-20 are by
                    Ralph Satterlee, Warner Gear Division, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana. The photograph on page 17 is by Emil Pierdos; that on page 18 courtesy of the
                    Indiana Department of Commerce. The picture on page 22 was photographed by Edward Matney; that on
                    page 23 was first used in the Lilly News, a publication of Eli Lilly and Company.
            
            
               William Conner
            
            
            
               Elizabeth Chapman Conner
            
            
            
               
                        LOG TRADING POST AND DOUBLE LOG CABIN TYPICAL OF THOSE USED DURING WILLIAM
                            CONNER'S EARLY LIFE OF THE FRONTIER
                    
            
            
            
               
                        INTERIOR OF TRADING POST SHOWING EXAMPLES OF FURS TRADED IN CENTRAL INDIANA DURING
                            THE FRONTIER PERIOD.
                    
            
            
            
               
                        CONNER DISTILLERY IN WHICH CORN WAS CONVERTED TO WHISKY FOR TRADE WITH THE INDIANS
                            OR EXPORT.
                    
            
            
            
               
                        MILK AND OTHER PERISHABLE FOODS WERE KEPT IN THE COOL SPRINGHOUSE.
                    
            
            
            
               
                        INTERIOR OF CONNER LOOM HOUSE.
                    
            
            
            
               
                        SORTING WOOL FOR SPINNING ON THE LOW WHEEL.
                    
            
            
            
               
                        WEAVING ON THE HEDDLE RUG LOOM HOUSE
                    
            
            
            
               
                        WILLIAM CONNER HOMESTEAD, BUILT IN 1823 DURING THE EARLY FEDERALIST PERIOD.
                    
            
            
            
               
                        ANOTHER VIEW OF THE WILLAM CONNER HOMESTED
                    
            
            
            
               
                        INTERIOR OF CONNER HOMESTEAD KITCHEN.
                    
            
            
            
               
                        INTERIOR OF LIVING ROOM, SHOWING CONNER PORTRAIT BY JACOB COX, AN EARLY HOOSIER
                            ARTIST.
                    
            
            
            
               
                        CHILDREN'S BEDROOM IN CONNER HOME. PORTRAIT ABOVE MANTLE IS BY JACOB
                        COX.
                    
            
            
            
               
                        CHILDREN'S BEDROOM IN CONNER HOME, SHOWING TRUNDLE BED.
                    
            
            
            
               
                        150 YEAR OLD DUGOUT CANOE DISCOVERED JUST NORTH OF THE CONNER PRAIRIE PROPERTY AND
                            HOUSED IN THE CONNER PRAIRIE MUSEUM.
                    
            
         
         
         
            Tecumseh, Harrison, and The War of 1812∗
            
            Marshall Smelser∗∗
            
            Indiana Territory had only twenty-five thousand citizens in 1810. When one reflects that the
                    populations of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     combined were more than twenty-five times as great, it will be easily understood that
                    the War of 1812 in the Old Northwest was more their war than it was Indiana's. Indiana was
                    only a beachhead in the wilderness. The history of the war as it concerns Indiana is more
                    biographical than geographical, more dramatic than analytic. This paper will treat it that
                    way—as a high tragedy involving two able natural leaders. Like all tragedies, the course
                    of its action gives the feeling that it was inevitable, that nothing could have been done to prevent
                    its fatal termination. The story is the drama of the struggle of two of our most eminent
                    predecessors, William Henry Harrison of Grouseland, 
                        Vincennes
                    , and Tecumseh of the Prophet's town, 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .
            It is not easy to learn about wilderness Indians. The records of the Indians are those kept by white
                    men, who were not inclined to give themselves the worst of it. Lacking authentic documents,
                    historians have neglected the Indians. The story of the Indian can be told but it
                    has a higher probability of error than more conventional kinds of history. To tell the tale is like
                    reporting the weather without scientific instruments. The reporter must be systematically,
                    academically skeptical. He must read between the lines, looking for evidence of a copper-colored
                    ghost in a deerskin shirt, flitting through a green and bloody world where tough people died from
                    knives, arrows, war clubs, rifle bullets, and musket balls, and where the coming of spring was not
                    necessarily an omen of easier living, but could make a red or white mother tremble because now the
                    enemy could move concealed in the forest. But the reporter must proceed cautiously, letting the
                    facts shape the story without prejudice.
            Tonight our story is a sad and somber one. It shows men at their bravest. It also shows men at their
                    worst. We are dealing with a classic situation in which two great leaders—each a
                    commander of the warriors of his people—move inexorably for a decade toward a
                    confrontation which ends in the destruction of the one and the exaltation of the other. Tecumseh, a
                    natural nobleman in a hopeless cause, and Harrison, a better soldier than he is 
                  
                     ∗ This address was delivered at the annual banquet of the
                            Society of Indiana Pioneers on November 2, 1963, under the title "Tecumseh,
                            Indiana, and the War of 1812." It was prepared in remembrance of the
                            sesquicentennial of the Battle of the Thames. The paper is printed here with minor changes
                            in text. Since it was delivered orally, the use of first person has been retained and
                            citations omitted. AH the necessary bibliography may be found in the notes to the digest of
                            this subject in Marshall Smelser, The Democratic Republic, 1801-1815 (
                                New York
                            , 1968), 208-11, 233-42, 251-56, and passim.
                  
                  
                     ∗∗ Marshall Smelser is professor of history at
                            the University of Notre Dame, 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana.
               
                    
                    
                  From a planting attributed to Rembrandt Peale.
                  William Henry Harrison, in the dress uniform of the War of 1812.
                  The original portrait showed Harrison in civilian dress as Delegate from Northwest Territory
                            in 1800. The Major General's uniform was superimposed in 1813.
                  Reproduced from Freeman Cleaves, Old 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                
                     : William Henry Harrison and His Time (
                                New York
                            : Charles Scribner's Sons, 1939.)
               
                    
                    
                  TECUMSEH
                  A print made from the only picture known to have been made of the Shawnee chief. It was
                            painted from memory by an English officer who knew Tecumseh in the War of 1812.
                  Reproduced from John M. Oskison, Tecumseh and His Times: The Story of a Great
                                Indian (
                                New York
                            : G. P. 
                                Putnam
                            's Sons, 1938.)
               
                     generally credited with being, make this an Indiana story,
                    although the last two acts of their tragedy were staged in 
                        Ohio
                     and in Upper 
                        Canada
                    . To understand why this deadly climax was inevitable we must know the Indian policy of
                    the 
                        United States
                     at that time; we must know, if we can, what the Indians thought of it; and we must know
                    something about the condition of the Indians.
            The federal government's Indian policy was almost wholly dedicated to the economic and
                    military benefit of white people. When Congress created Indiana Territory, the 
                        United States
                     was officially committed to educate and civilize the Indians. The program worked fairly
                    well in the South for a time. Indiana Territory's Governor Harrison gave it an honest trial
                    in the North, but the problems were greater than could be solved with the feeble means used. The
                    management of Indian affairs was unintelligently complicated by overlapping authorities, a confused
                    chain of command, and a stingy treasury— stingy, that is, when compared with the treasury
                    of the more lavish British competitors for Indian favor. More to the point, most white Americans
                    thought the Indians should be moved to the unsettled lands in the West. President Jefferson, for
                    awhile, advocated teaching agriculture to the Indians, and he continued the operation of federal
                    trading posts in the Indian country which had been set up to lessen the malevolent influence of
                    private traders. These posts were successful by the standards of cost accounting, but they did
                    nothing to advance the civilization of the Indian. Few white people wished the Indians well, and
                    fewer would curb their appetites for fur and land just to benefit Indians.
            The conflict between whites and Indians was not simple. The Indians were neither demons nor
                    sculptured noble savages. They were not the single people Tecumseh claimed but were broken into
                    fragments by language differences. Technologically they were farther behind the Long
                    Knives—as the Indians called the frontiersmen—than the Gauls who died on
                    Caesar's swords were behind the Romans. But they had a way of life that worked in its hard,
                    cruel fashion. In the end, however, the Indian way of life was shattered by force; and the Indians
                    lost their streams, their corn and bean fields, their forests.
            Comparatively few white residents of the 
                        United States
                     in 1801 had ever seen an Indian. East of the 
                        Mississippi
                    
                    River there were perhaps seventy thousand Indians, of whom only ten thousand
                    lived north of the Ohio River. They were bewildered pawns of international
                    politics, governed by the French to 1763, ruled in the name of George III of 
                        England
                     to 1783, and never consulted about the change of sovereigns. As Governor Harrison
                    himself said, they disliked the French least, because the French were content with a congenial joint
                    occupation of the wilds while the white Americans and British had a fierce sense of the difference
                    between mine and thine. The governor admitted the Indians had genuine grievances. It was not likely,
                    for example, that a jury would convict a white man charged with murdering an Indian. 
                    
                  
                            TECUMSEH, HARRISON, AND THE WAR OF 1812.
                        
                  Line of dots indicates Indian line, 1809. Tribal locales labeled at approximate centers and
                            underlined.
                  Courtesy Marshall Smelser
               
                     Indians were shot in the forest north of 
                        Vincennes
                     for no reason at all. Indians, Harrison reported, punished Indians for crimes against
                    Long Knives, but the frontiersmen did not reciprocate. But the worst curse visited on the Indians by
                    the whites was alcohol. Despite official gestures at prohibition, alcohol flowed unchecked in the
                    Indian territory. Harrison said six hundred Indian warriors on the 
                        Wabash
                     received six thousand gallons of whisky a year. That would seem to work out to a fifth
                    of whisky per week per family, and it did not come in a steady stream, but in alternating floods and
                    ebbs.
            Naturally Indian resentment flared. Indian rage was usually ferocious but temporary. Few took a long
                    view. Among those who did were some gerat natural leaders, Massasoit's disillusioned son
                    King Philip in the 1670s, Pontiac in the 1760s, and Tecumseh. But such leaders invariably found it
                    hard to unite the Indians for more than a short time; regardless of motive or ability, their cause
                    was hopeless. The Indians were a Stone Age people who depended for good weapons almost entirely on
                    the Long Knives or the Redcoats. The rivalry of Britain and the 
                        United States
                     made these dependent people even more dependent. Long Knives supplied whisky, salt, and
                    tools. Redcoats supplied rum, beef, and muskets. The Indians could not defeat Iron Age men because
                    these things became necessities to them, and they could not make them for themselves. But yielding
                    gracefully to the impact of white men's presence and technology was no help to the Indians.
                    The friendly Choctaw of present 
                        Mississippi
                    , more numerous than all of the northwestern tribes together, were peaceful and
                    cooperative. Their fate was nevertheless the same as the fate of the followers of King Philip,
                    Pontiac, and Tecumseh.
            The Indians had one asset—land. Their land, they thought, belonged to the family group so
                    far as it was owned at all. No Indian had a more sophisticated idea of land title than that. And as
                    for selling land, the whites had first to teach them that they owned it and then to teach them to
                    sell it. Even then, some Indians very early developed the notion that land could only be transferred
                    by the unanimous consent of all tribes concerned rather than through negotiations with a single
                    tribe. Indian councils declared this policy to the Congress of the 
                        United States
                     in 1783 and in 1793. If we follow James Truslow Adams' rule of thumb that an
                    Indian family needed as many square miles of wilderness as a white family needed plowed acres, one
                    may calculate that the seventy thousand Indians east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     needed an area equal to all of the Old Northwest plus 
                        Kentucky
                    , if they were to live the primitive life of their fathers. Therefore, if the Indians
                    were to live as undisturbed primitives, there would be no hunting grounds to spare. And if the rule
                    of unanimous land cessions prevailed, there would be no land sales so long as any tribal leader
                    objected. Some did object, notably two eminent Shawnee: Tecumseh, who believed in collective
                    bargaining, and his brother, the Prophet, who also scorned the Long Knives' tools, his
                    whisky, and his civilization. Harrison dismissed the Prophet's attack on land treaties as
                    the result of British  influence, but collective conveyance was
                    an old idea before the Shawnee medicine man took it up. The result of the federal
                    government's policy of single tribe land treaties was to degrade the village chiefs who
                    made the treaties and to exalt the angry warrior chiefs, like Tecumseh, who denounced the village
                    chiefs, corrupted by whisky and other gifts, for selling what was not theirs to sell.
            King George had reserved no rights for his Indian wards at the end of the War for Independence. From
                    1783 to 1871 the 
                        United States
                     made 372 land treaties with the Indians under the constitutional treaty power, as
                    though ragged bands of hungry and debauched Indians were sovereign nations, the equals of the
                    British or Russian empires. President Jefferson himself submitted twenty-eight treaties to the
                    Senate. Before the War of 1812, the northwestern tribes had lost legal title to nearly all of 
                        Ohio
                    , much of southern Indiana, most of present 
                        Illinois
                    , and a quarter of present 
                        Wisconsin
                     and 
                        Michigan
                    . Jefferson believed that only those Indians living on a tract when it was first
                    discovered needed to be consulted. On that theory, only the Miami owned land still held by the
                    Indians in the area between the 
                  Ohio, Illinois
               , and 
                        Mississippi
                     rivers. Other tribes were allowed to sign as a courtesy, not a right—other
                    tribes, that is, except the Shawnee. (Harrison told the Indiana territorial legislature that the
                    Shawnee brothers' theory of collective ownership would make it impossible to buy land and
                    was therefore absurd.) From the Treaty of Greenville in 1795 to the New Purchase Treaty at Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in 1809, federal negotiators acquired forty-eight million acres in the Old Northwest.
                    This brought Tecumseh to the center of the stage, with fire in his eye.
            Jefferson's hope, written to Governor Harrison in February, 1803, was to draw the Indians
                    into farming so they would need less land and would then trade their hunting land for farming
                    equipment and supplies. Jefferson wrote that they should be allowed credit at government stores so
                    the debts could be erased by more land cessions, and the tribes would in time either be absorbed as
                    citizens or move west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Looking back, it is hard to believe that the official policy of the 
                        United States
                     was truly based on a sincere belief that the Indians were responsible nations. On the
                    contrary, they were regarded as culturally and racially inferior. The Americans justified the Indian
                    policy by British precedent, by the fact that the land was paid for, by the
                    vastness of the unsettled regions remaining to the Indians, and by urging that agricultural land was
                    indispensable to a growing 
                        United States
                    . When Indians disagreed with these justifications, the disagreement usually was blamed
                    on British conspirators. Tecumseh's theory of collective land sale was the only legal idea
                    which had the faintest chance of stopping the steady advance of the Long Knives, and it had a very
                    faint chance indeed. Tecumseh and his allies saw the steady reduction of Indians from free men to
                    dependents. Annuities to Indians, arranged in the treaties, were cheaper for the 
                        United States
                     than wars of extermination, but annuities degraded the  Indians to rags and drunken idleness. However, let us think of the
                    problem in terms of realistic politics. If some seventy thousand people today owned everything north
                    of the Ohio River and south of 
                        Tennessee
                    , they would not be allowed to keep it. This is not a moral judgment but a political
                    conclusion. If we accept the collective ownership theory, these Indians had more potential wealth
                    per capita than any people on earth. Because they were ignorant of how to use it, they lived more
                    miserably than the most wretched Russian serf of 1813 or Chinese coolie of 1963.
            The name Tecumseh is said to be Shawnee for "Meteor" or "Flying
                    Panther." Either one is fittingly descriptive, and the word might well mean both. Because
                    of the lack of records, Tecumseh's life is an uncertain fable, but he was probably all
                    Shawnee. No one seems to have written of his youth until ten years after his death. His early years
                    were apparently those of any other young Shawnee who came to manhood in the 1780s, except that he
                    was more intelligent and magnetic than most Americans, regardless of complexion. He was born five to
                    eight years before the Declaration of Independence in some village on the headwaters of the
                        Miami River in present 
                        Ohio
                    . When not more than twenty-five years old he is believed to have led the repulse of a
                    surprise attack on his tribe by the noted frontier fighter Simon Kenton. Like his nemesis, Harrison,
                    Tecumseh had a minor part in the Battle of Fallen Timbers in 1794, where both seem to have acquitted
                    themselves creditably.
            Tecumseh's tribe, the Shawnee, were long actively hostile to the 
                        United States
                    : from 1774 to 1794 there were at least sixteen armed clashes between organized Shawnee
                    bands and Long Knives. The great warrior chiefs of Tecumseh's youth were Little Turtle of
                    the Miami and Blue Jacket of the Shawnee tribe. After General Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    's victory at Fallen Timbers, Little Turtle took a federal pension and came out
                    for coexistence. Blue Jacket, citing the doctrine of collective diplomacy, remained unconciliated
                    and gained some popularity. Tecumseh saw matters as Blue Jacket did. He became Blue
                    Jacket's chief follower and later his successor as head of a militant Shawnee minority. It
                    seems quite possible that Tecumseh had ambitions to be the principal Shawnee leader. And he could
                    not gain this eminence by peaceful collaboration with white expansion. Certainly there were always
                    important Shawnee opposed to him and his theories—but most of them seem to have been on
                    the 
                        United States
                     payroll. The opposition of suspiciously pacific Shawnee leaders explains
                    Tecumseh's later denial of the authority of the village chiefs and his aggrandizement of
                    the northwestern warrior chiefs.
            In the late 1790s Tecumseh was building a reputation as hunter and warrior, gathering a band of
                    admiring braves about him, and calling himself "chief." In 1798 his band settled
                    on the White River. In the next several years he was influential enough to be
                    respected and consulted on Indian matters by the settlers of the Miami and
                        Scioto valleys. It was probably in  1805
                    or 1806 that he made his resolve to try to bar the Long Knives from further settlement in the
                    wilderness. He set out on his ceaseless travel and agitation—a journey which ended in an
                    unmarked grave. It was in the winter of 1805-1806 that his younger brother became the
                    "Prophet" and began to supply the theology necessary to idealize
                    Tecumseh's nativist movement. Like most primitive peoples, and some not so primitive, the
                    Shawnee thought of themselves as a superior people, who once had been the favorites of the
                    "Master of Life" but later had been corrupted and blinded by sin. It was the
                    Prophet's self-imposed job to teach them virtue again. He predicted if they followed him
                    they would soon regain their superiority.
            By the time he found his life work Tecumseh was an impressive man, about five feet nine inches tall,
                    muscular and well proportioned, with large but fine features in an oval face, light copper skin,
                    excellent white teeth, and hazel eyes. His carriage was imperial, his manner energetic, and his
                    temperament cheerful. His dress was less flashy than that of many of his fellow warriors. Except for
                    a silver mounted tomahawk, quilled moccasins, and, in war, a medal of George III and a plume of
                    ostrich feathers, he dressed simply in fringed buckskin. He knew enough English for ordinary
                    conversation, but to assure accuracy he was careful to speak only Shawnee in diplomacy. Unlike many
                    Indians he could count, at least as far as eighteen (as we know by his setting an appointment with
                    Harrison eighteen days after opening the subject of a meeting). Military men later said he had a
                    good eye for military topography and could extemporize crude tactical maps with the point of his
                    knife. He is well remembered for his humanity to prisoners, being one of the few Indians of his day
                    who disapproved of torturing and killing prisoners of war. This point is better documented than many
                    other aspects of his character and career.
            The Prophet rather than Tecumseh first captured the popular imagination. As late as 1810 Tecumseh was
                    being referred to in official correspondence merely as the Prophet's brother. The Shawnee
                    Prophet's preaching had touches of moral grandeur: respect for the aged, sharing of
                    material goods with the needy, monogamy, chastity, and abstinence from alcohol. He urged a return to
                    the old Indian ways and preached self-segregation from the white people. But he had an evil way with
                    dissenters, denouncing them as witches and having several of them roasted alive. This revolted his
                    fellow Shawnee. The Prophet gave up his witch hunts, announced an order from God to move inside the
                    Indian treaties boundary in western 
                        Ohio
                    , sent disciples to preach in far places, and drew throngs of Indian pilgrims, many of
                    whom are alleged to have died of hunger or exposure on their pilgrimages. His usual effect on his
                    Indian converts was an improvement of their conduct for several years, a return to old-fashioned
                    ways of getting a living and old-fashioned malnutrition and exposure, and then a relapse into what
                    might be called a kind of reformed prophetism, militantly antiwhite but not so eager to go hungry by
                    boycotting white men's tools and trade. The Prophet claimed 
                    
                  THE SHAWNEE PKOPHET.
                  Reproduced from John B. Dillon, A History of Indiana … (
                                Indianapolis
                            : Bingham & Doughty, 1859.)
               
                     to have been transported to heaven where he learned the truth.
                    From the way Thomas Jefferson wrote of the Prophet later, one gathers that skeptical and
                    rationalistic Long Knives thought the Prophet had not visited the Great Spirit in his heaven but had
                    visited the British Indian agent in Fort Malden.
            One of the skeptics unconverted by the Prophet and unimpressed by the divinity of his mission was
                    Indiana Territory's first governor, William Henry Harrison, a retired regular officer, the
                    son of a signer of the Declaration of Independence, appointed governor at the age of twenty-eight.
                    Prudent, popular with Indians and whites, industrious, and intelligent, he had no easy job. He had
                    to contend with land hunger, Indian resentments, the excesses of Indian traders, and with his
                    constant suspicion of a British web of conspiracy spun from Fort Maiden. The growing popularity of
                    the Prophet alarmed Harrison, and early in 1806 he sent a speech by special messenger to the 
                        Delaware
                     tribe to try to refute the Prophet's theology by Aristotelian formal logic.
                    Harrison was not alone in his apprehensions. In 
                        Ohio
                     the throngs of Indian pilgrims grew larger after the Prophet during the
                    summer" of 1806 correctly predicted an eclipse of the sun (forecast, of course, in every
                    almanac) and took credit for it. A year later, when reports indicated the number of the
                    Prophet's followers was increasing, the governor of 
                        Ohio
                     alerted the militia and sent commissioners to investigate. They heard Blue Jacket deny
                    any British influence on the Indians. At another meeting later at 
                        Chillicothe
                     Tecumseh denounced all land treaties but promised peace. The governor of 
                        Ohio
                     was temporarily satisfied, although Harrison still thought the Prophet spoke like a
                    British agent and told the Shawnee what he thought. But in the fall of 1807 there was no witness,
                    however hostile, who could prove that either Tecumseh or the Prophet preached war. On the contrary,
                    every reported sermon and oration apparently promised peace. An ominous portent,
                    however—at least in Harrison's eyes—was the founding of the
                    Prophet's town on the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    
                    River, in May, 1808.
            The Prophet visited Harrison at 
                        Vincennes
                     late in the summer of 1808 to explain his divine mission to the incredulous young
                    governor. Privately, and grudgingly, Harrison admitted the Prophet had reduced drunkenness, but he
                    persisted in his belief that the Shawnee leader was a British agitator. The Prophet went to 
                        Vincennes
                     again in 1809 and boasted of having prevented an Indian war. Harrison did not believe
                    him. There is good evidence that in June, 1810, Tecumseh tried unsuccessfully to persuade the
                    Shawnee of the Maumee Basin to move west in order to clear the woods for war. When Harrison learned
                    this he sent a message to the Prophet's town. The "Seventeen Fires," he
                    said, were invincible. The Redcoats could not help the Indians. But if the Indians thought the New
                    Purchase Treaty made at Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in 1809 was fraudulent, Harrison would arrange to pay their way to visit the President,
                    who would hear their complaint. Tecumseh privately said he wished peace but could be pushed no
                    farther. These rumblings and tremors of 1810 produced the first meeting of our two tragic
                    protagonists.
            
            
               
                        GOV. HARRISON AND TECUMSEH IN COUNCIL AT VINCENNEP.
                    
               Reproduced from John B. Dillon, A History of Indiana …(
                            Indianapolis
                        : Bingham & Doughty, 1859.)
            
            
            Tecumseh paddled to 
                        Vincennes
                     with four hundred armed warriors in mid August, 1810. In council he denounced the New
                    Purchase Treaty and the village chiefs who had agreed to it. He said the warrior chiefs would rule
                    Indian affairs thereafter. Harrison flatly denied Tecumseh's theory of collective ownership
                    and guaranteed to defend by the sword what had been acquired by treaty. This meeting of leaders was
                    certainly not a meeting of minds. A deadlock had been reached. A cold war had been started. During
                    the rest of 1810 Harrison received nothing but bad news. The secretary of war suggested a surprise
                    capture of the Shawnee brothers. Indians friendly to the 
                        United States
                     predicted war. The governor of 
                        Missouri
                     reported to Harrison that the Prophet had invited the tribes west of the 
                        Mississippi
                     to join in a war, which was to begin with an attack against 
                        Vincennes
                    . The Indians around Fort 
                        Dearborn
                     were disaffected and restless. A delegation of Sauk came all the way from 
                        Wisconsin
                     to visit Fort Maiden. Two surveyors running the New Purchase line were carried off by
                    the Wea.
            In the summer of 1811 Tecumseh and about three hundred Indians returned to 
                        Vincennes
                     for another inconclusive council in which neither he nor the governor converted the
                    other. Tecumseh condescendingly advised against white settlement in the New Purchase because many
                    Indians were going to settle at the Prophet's town in the fall and would need that area for
                    hunting. Tecumseh said he was going south to enroll new allies. It is important to our story that
                    Tecumseh was absent from Indiana in that autumn of crisis. Aside from this we need note only that on
                    his southern tour he failed to rouse the Choctaw, although he had a powerful effect on the thousands
                    of Creek who heard his eloquence.
            At this point it is important to note Governor Harrison's continuing suspicion that Tecumseh
                    and the Prophet were British agents, or at least were being stirred to hostility by the British.
                    British official correspondence shows that Fort Maiden was a free cafeteria for hungry Indians,
                    having served them seventy-one thousand meals in the first eleven months of 1810. The correspondence
                    also shows that Tecumseh, in 1810, told the British he planned for war in late 1811, but indicates
                    that the British apparently promised him nothing.
            The year 1811 was a hard one for the Indians because the Napoleonic wars had sharply reduced the
                    European market for furs. The Indians were in a state that we would call a depression. And we should
                    remember that while Tecumseh helped the British in the War of 1812 it was not because he loved them.
                    To him the British side was merely the side to take against the Long Knives.
            In June and July of 1811 Governors William Hull of 
                        Michigan
                     Territory and Harrison of Indiana Territory sent to the secretary of war evaluations of
                    the frontier problems. Hull's was narrowly tactical, pessimistic, and prophetic of the easy
                    conquest of 
                        Michigan
                     if the British navy controlled Lake Erie. Harrison's,
                    although in fewer words, was broadly strategic and more constructive:  the mere fact of an Indian confederation, friendly to the British and
                    hostile to the Long Knives, was dangerous; the Prophet's town (hereafter called 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ) was ideally located as a base for a surprise downstream attack on 
                        Vincennes
                    , was well placed as a headquarters for more protracted warfare, and was linked by water
                    and short portages with all the northwestern Indians; the little known country north of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , full of swamps and thickets, could easily be defended by natives, but the power of the 
                        United States
                     could be brought to bear only with the greatest difficulty. Early in August, 1811,
                    Harrison told the War Department he did not expect hostilities before Tecumseh returned from the
                    South, and that in the meantime he intended to try to break up Tecumseh's confederacy,
                    without bloodshed if possible. On their side, the Indians told the British they expected some
                    deceitful trick leading to their massacre.
            The military details of the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     need not be exhausted here. Harrison's forces moved up the 
                        Wabash
                     and arrived at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     on November 6, 1811. When Harrison was preparing to attack, he was met by emissaries
                    from the Prophet. Both sides agreed to a council on the next day. The troops encamped with correctly
                    organized interior and exterior guards. Here the story diverges into two versions. White writers
                    have said the Indians intended to confer, to pretend falsely to agree to anything, to assassinate
                    Harrison, and to massacre the little army. They allege the Prophet had promised to make the Indians
                    bullet proof. A Kickapoo chief later said to British officers that a white prisoner the Indians had
                    captured told them Harrison intended to fight, not to talk. At any rate, the shooting started at
                    about four in the morning, an unfortunate moment for the Indians because that was the hour of
                    "stand to" or "general quarters" in the white army. Curious
                    Indians in the brush were fired on by sentries. The Indians then killed the sentries. It was then,
                    and only then, the Indians said, that they decided to fight. The battle lasted until mid morning,
                    when the Indians ran out of arrows and bullets and fled. A detachment of Harrison's troops
                    then burned the deserted village and the winter corn reserve of the Shawnee. Two days later the
                    troops withdrew. The depth of the cleavage between Indians and whites is shown by the fact that the
                    Potowatomi Chief Winnemac, Harrison's leading Indian adviser, came up the river with the
                    troops but fought on the side of his bronze brethren. Harrison had 50 
                        Kentucky
                     volunteers, 250 
                        United States
                     infantry, and several hundred Indiana militia, who had been trained personally by him.
                    Reports of losses vary. Indians admitted to losing 25 dead, but soldiers counted 38 dead Indians on
                    the field. This was the first time in northwestern warfare than a force of whites of a size equal to
                    the redmen had suffered only a number of casualties equal to those of their dusky enemies.
                    Heretofore whites in such circumstances had lost more than the redmen had lost. Estimates of Indians
                    in the fighting range from 100 to 1,000. Six hundred would probably be a fair estimate.
            
            As battles go, 
                        Tippecanoe
                     cannot be compared with Fallen Timbers in 1794 or Moravian town in 1813, but it was
                    politically and diplomatically decisive. Its most important effect was to divide the tribes in such
                    a way as to make Tecumseh's dream fade like fog in the sun. At a council on the
                        Mississinewa River in May, 1812, the tribes quarreled bitterly over the
                    rashness of the young men, meaning Tecumseh's admirers, who had precipitated the fight. 
                        Tippecanoe
                     was fought in Tecumseh's absence, against his express wish. It destroyed
                    belief in the divine apostolate of the Prophet. After 
                        Tippecanoe
                     there was to be no permanent confederacy. Tecumseh and his warrior chiefs could not
                    head a proud and independent government, they could only be second class barbarian auxiliaries of
                    the British.
            Before 
                        Tippecanoe
                     the British senior officers in 
                        Canada
                     had discouraged Indian hostility towards the 
                        United States
                    . The governor general obliquely reprimanded the Indian superintendent at Fort Maiden
                    for his partisanship on the side of the Indians. After 
                        Tippecanoe
                     British military men thought it wise to cultivate the Indians. They suggested
                    rescinding orders to Indian agents to be neutral and recommended that they issue ammunition as well
                    as food.
            In the spring of 1812 the Indian superintendent of 
                        Canada
                     sent an Indian deputy to learn what had really happened at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . The agent reported that Tecumseh shrugged off the battle as only a minor skirmish.
                    Tecumseh still had nearly a thousand warriors, drawn from twelve tribes, but they were short of
                    weapons and food. They had received little powder and not an ounce of lead from the British in the
                    first half of 1812. Because they lacked ammunition, the Indians could not hunt and were going
                    hungry, and the free cafeteria at Fort Maiden was busier than ever.
            We might conclude that Harrison had driven Tecumseh to King George's side, but the alliance
                    actually was natural and inevitable. Harrison's behavior met the approval of President 
                        Madison
                    , who told Congress that military demonstration was necessary because of the menacing
                    preparation of the Prophet.
            When war was declared in 1812, Harrison was recalled to the army. But Indiana, despite two sieges and
                    a surprise Indian attack against a small unprotected settlement, was a minor theatre of operations
                    in the first year of the war. Thus, until Harrison's direct, victorious intervention in
                    1813, we are concerned mostly with the Shawnee hero, Tecumseh.
            
               
                        Detroit
                    , a place of only seven hundred people, had to be held if the British at Fort Maiden
                    were to be prevented from supplying the Indians. 
                        Ohio
                     easily raised twelve hundred militia. The regiment of regulars which had served at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     joined this force. General William Hull took command at 
                        Dayton
                     late in May, 1812. In July he reinforced 
                        Detroit
                    , then crossed to Sandwich to menace the British positions. On their side, the British,
                    with few settlers to draw on and few regulars to be spared from the struggle with Nanoleon hastened
                    to strengthen Fort Malden physically  Equally important, they
                    gathered a council of several hundred Indians at the fort, among whom was, naturally, Tecumseh. In
                    spite of the Americans' efforts to persuade the Indians to remain neutral, Tecumseh was
                    able to hold more than three hundred warriors loyal to the British from the start. Hull fumed and
                    proclaimed that Canadians who fought alongside Indians would not be given a chance to surrender. But
                    Tecumseh sent west for more Indians. His power of persuasion showed itself early in August when he
                    brought the Wyandot to join him under the Union Jack. The Wyandot had the highest tribal status and
                    prestige among the northwestern Indians. Tecumseh thereafter tactfully gave public precedence and
                    deference to the Wyandot warrior chief Roundhead, his military and moral inferior.
            
               If Indians were valuable allies—a question we shall examine
                    separately— Tecumseh was King George's best friend. He successfully led an all
                    Indian seizure of Hull's outbound mail at Brownstown on the Huron
                    River. Fifty of the 
                        United States
                     troops escorting the mail were casualties but only one Indian was killed. The British
                    regulars tried to imitate the Indian success four days later but failed in a bumbling fashion and
                    suffered twenty-nine casualties. The British forces gained a good deal of respect both for their
                    American opponents and for Tecumseh, who could outwit such fighters. The senior British officer in
                    upper 
                        Canada
                     flattered Tecumseh by asking for lessons in forest warfare and reported to the
                    government in 
                        London
                     that he did not believe there existed a wiser, more gallant Indian. By this time the
                    Shawnee genius had gathered a thousand warriors, and he kept them from wasting gunpowder, and kept
                    them sober.
            When the dispirited Hull recrossed from Sandwich to 
                        Detroit
                    , Tecumseh's pesky Indians were the first to cross in pursuit. When Hull
                    surrendered 
                        Detroit
                     without a shot on August 16, 1812, he explained his capitulation by saying that
                    practically all of the northwestern Indians were British allies and that they infested his 200 mile
                    line of communication so as to make his position hopeless. It was not quite that simple, as Harrison
                    saw it, but to contemporary minds the Indians were responsible for the inglorious fall of 
                        Detroit
                    . The key to the Indians was Tecumseh's magnetism, perseverance, and
                    intelligence. And when 
                        Detroit
                     fell, it was surely to Tecumseh's credit that his braves paddled back to Fort
                    Maiden under good discipline.
            While Hull was losing 
                        Michigan
                    , Harrison showed his wisdom in a long letter to the secretary of war, correctly
                    sketching all of the northwestern military problems. His central proposal was to use Fort 
                        Wayne
                     as the cardinal military base and to hang on until the 
                        United States
                     Navy could control Lake Erie. Except that Fort Meigs became the
                    advanced base, all of his predictions came true and all of his proposals were ultimately adopted.
                    Harrison soon became a brigadier general in the 
                        United States
                     Army.
            The conduct of Indians in frontier warfare has always been at least interesting to later generations.
                    It was more than interesting to contemporaries—to them it had a deadly fascination. A
                    good deal of ink has been  used by partisans to blame the other
                    side for starting atrocities. An English writer has insisted that the first scalp taken in the 
                        Detroit
                     campaign was torn from an Indian by the teeth of a Kentuckian, a fact which he said the
                    Indians used as a basis for claiming release from a promise not to fight barbarously. According to a
                    British witness, in the absence of Tecumseh, Indians killed two prisoners of war early in August,
                    one as a cool, calculated ceremonial revenge, the other in a raging fury. British regulars were
                    present, but their commander, Colonel Henry Procter, said he could not intervene. There were no
                    atrocities when 
                        Detroit
                     surrendered. Tecumseh and a different British officer, General Isaac Brock, were
                    present then. When fortifications near 
                        Detroit
                     were destroyed after Hull's surrender, both Tecumseh and Roundhead were
                    present and were well behaved. There were no murders, but there was much looting of private houses,
                    and the Indians stole about three hundred horses. The nervousness of the British toward their
                    excitable allies was shown when a brief armistice was arranged. A British general wrote to an
                    American general that he would use the garrison at 
                        Detroit
                     to protect the inhabitants, because the Indians would be impatient of the armistice.
                    And, of course, the Fort 
                        Dearborn
                     massacre, perpetrated by Indians intoxicated by recent British successes, happened on
                    the day before the surrender of 
                        Detroit
                    . Tecumseh was two hundred fifty miles from the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    River, but his invitation to the Indians at 
                        Dearborn
                     to join the British has been blamed for the bloody business. The worst affair before
                    Harrison made his intervention firmly felt was the massacre of the American wounded at Frenchtown by
                    drunken Indians under Roundhead after Brigadier General James Winchester's disaster in the
                    Battle of the Raisin River, in January, 1813. Tecumseh was not there. He was
                    probably in the deep South, stirring up the Cherokee. The humane General Brock, who took 
                        Detroit
                    , was also absent. His successor was the same Colonel Procter who had not intervened to
                    prevent an earlier slaughter of prisoners.
            General Harrison was in command of the holding operation in the northwest from spring to fall in
                    1813. Early in May Colonel William Dudley's force of nearly a thousand Kentuckians was
                    trapped across the Maumee River from Fort Meigs in a brilliant maneuver by
                    Tecumseh. Almost five hundred Kentuckians were taken prisoner. The Indians, in the presence of
                    Procter again, set out grimly to slaughter the prisoners one by one. They killed a British soldier
                    who interfered to protect the prisoners. When Tecumseh arrived, he intervened fiercely with threats
                    of violence to his own warriors and stopped the slaughter. Procter is alleged to have disclaimed
                    responsibility on the ground that the Indians were uncontrollable. A British officer has left us a
                    shocking description of the Indian camp after this catastrophe. It was decorated with human skin
                    (not only scalps), and its dogs were gorging on human flesh. The episode is said to have pained
                    Tecumseh deeply because atrocious behavior by Indians would forfeit the moral basis of his cause. It
                    was reported that when he found four Shawnee had been captured with the 
                    
                        United States
                     soldiers he gave them friendly mesages to take to their tribesmen, cautioned them not
                    to fight against the British army, and sent them home unharmed. But Tecumseh's goal of
                    teaching Indians to wage war more humanely was probably hopeless.
            In early September Commodore Oliver Perry's improvised squadron annilhilated British naval
                    power above Niagara. The British spearhead at Fort Maiden could now be cut off by landings to the
                    east. General Harrison's vigil was ended. Procter moved swiftly to escape to the east, and
                    Harrison followed even more swiftly. Tecumseh protested passionately against the British retreat,
                    but it is said that a private lesson in the geography of upper 
                        Canada
                     convinced him, and he in turn convinced the other braves. It was well for the British
                    that Tecumseh was open to conviction, for the Indians in their anger might have turned their weapons
                    against the Redcoats.
            Less than a month elapsed between Perry's great victory at Put in Bay and
                    Harrison's coup de grace. We cannot examine minutely Harrison's
                    victory of October 5 at Moraviantown, sometimes called the Battle of the Thames. It was largely a
                    victory of 
                        Kentucky
                     over the British Empire. There were probably more Indians from Indiana on
                    Procter's side than there were whites from Indiana with Harrison. Harrison's
                    fighters, according to a British officer, differed little from Tecumseh's braves in their
                    manner of fighting, while the conspicuously ornamented British regulars, he wrote, were victims led
                    to slaughter in this kind of warfare. The leather clad 
                        United States
                     troops were tough, brave, alert, and well commanded. Fighting as dragoons, they rode
                    into battle, dismounted, and went to work with the rifle. The British had only twenty such mounted
                    riflemen, all of whom fled.
            The essence of the battle was that a surprised and hotly pursued Procter hastily posted his regulars
                    in a ragged line on fairly open ground, with Tecumseh's Indians in the brush on the British
                    flank. Harrison could not outflank his enemy. He therefore sent his mounted hellions in a direct
                    assault against the British regulars. Thus audacity paid off. According to one report, the British
                    were disorganized and killed or captured in less than one minute. Then the American troops
                    dismounted and hunted the Indians through the brush until the Indians ran. It was all over in less
                    than half an hour. Harrison won at Moraviantown with five brigades of 
                        Kentucky
                     militia, many of them mounted, plus Colonel Richard M. Johnson's regiment of 
                        Kentucky
                     militia cavalry, plus 30 Indians, and a mere 120 regular soldiers. Harrison's
                    army suffered but 29 casualties. The British had 34 casualties, 33 Indians were found dead on the
                    field, and 601 Redcoats surrendered.
            What had Harrison accomplished at Moraviantown? With a force approximately equal to the enemy, he won
                    a victory greater than Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    's at Fallen Timbers—greater because 
                        Wayne
                     faced only Indians who had no artillery, while Harrison battled Indians strengthened by
                    eight hundred British regulars. Harrison's engineer officer, trained at West Point, said
                    Harrison's tactics were novel but were justified by success. He included  Harrison in the phrase "great generals." An unnamed 
                        United States
                     officer protested this as too faint praise, saying Harrison had used tactics developed
                    by Frederick the Great and perfected by Napoleon: he concentrated his greatest force against the
                    enemy's weakest point. This writer does not join the majority of historians in looking at
                    the northwestern war with contempt. There were two decisive land victories in the War of 1812, which
                    together broke the Indian power east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    : Jackson's victory at Horseshoe Bend and Harrison's at Moraviantown.
                    The Northwest was saved by Perry and Harrison less than sixteen months after the declaration of war.
                    It is curious how often Harrison's name is omitted from the list of able generals who
                    emerged from this war.
            Another pertinent question is, what did the Indians accomplish? It can be concluded that whatever
                    their price the Indians were no bargain to the British. They were at once indispensable and
                    infuriating. In victory they were inhumane, in defeat they were invisible. General Procter said they
                    were useful only when they were unnecessary. On several occasions British officers had to make
                    decisions contrary to their best military judgment in order to keep the favor of the Indians. After
                    any slight success the Indians were apt to go home to brag and to show off their scalps, their
                    prisoners, and their loot. We have seen that they killed a British soldier for protecting prisoners
                    from slaughter. In the previous summer, on a military mission under British command, they had killed
                    and scalped a Canadian ally and tried to kill another, apparently from sheer exuberance of fighting
                    spirit. Looking over the whole span of American history it is hard to find any instance where
                    English speaking peoples gained any lasting military benefit from organized Indian help.
            The last important question is, what became of Tecumseh? The standard popular view came to be that
                    Colonel Richard M. Johnson shot him dead after Tecumseh had wounded him. Widespread belief in this
                    proposition elected Johnson to the vice presidency of the 
                        United States
                    , an office he did not ornament. Actually, the story has become a mishmash. Many of the
                    documents were produced as reminiscences in the 1830s when Johnson was a rising political star. They
                    were brought forward either to promote him or to frustrate his ambitions. Looking at the question in
                    one way, if it were murder to have killed Tecumseh, an energetic prosecutor could
                    get Johnson indicted, but an able criminal lawyer could get him off, on the evidence now available.
            Harrison omitted Tecumseh's name from his victory dispatch, written four days after the
                    battle, because he was not yet sure Tecumseh had been killed. When Harrison later became certain of
                    Tecumseh's death, there were several nominees for the deed. At least twelve independent
                    accounts of the episode, purporting to be fairly certain of the event, appeared in print from 1816
                    to 1872, all claiming to be founded on contemporary evidence, many contradictory, many based on
                    hearsay, many based on the memories of old men. The two  least
                    biased investigators were unable even to prove that Tecumseh was killed in the battle. No Indian
                    admitted Tecumseh was dead until some time had passed. No white man was certain. From the
                    information we have to work with, no conscientious coroner could certify the cause of death, where
                    it occurred, when it occurred, who did it. But in a civil suit for damages, where the preponderance
                    of evidence would be enough to settle the matter, the finger would point in descending order of
                    probability to a Private David King of 
                        Kentucky
                    , to Colonel William 
                        Whitley
                     of 
                        Kentucky
                    , who was killed in action and could not testify, and to Colonel Johnson. There is no
                    reason to doubt that Tecumseh was killed at Moraviantown. The wife of the governor general of 
                        Canada
                     publicly honored his mournful sister with her sympathy after the battle. But his grave
                    is unmarked, unknown.
            The legend of Tecumseh grew and grew, producing low grade poetry and drama, spurious orations,
                    fantasies of his childhood, the election of Johnson as vice president and of Harrison as president.
                    Only two fragments of the fable need attention here. Contrary to accounts of some artists, Tecumseh
                    held no rank in the British army, although lesser men served as general officers in that army. And
                    the famous "Tecumseh" statue at the 
                        United States
                     Naval Academy is in reality the bronze replica of a ship's figurehead
                    portraying the 
                        Delaware
                     Chief Tammanend, the St. Tammany of Tammany Hall.
            Harrison was promoted to major general. He sent his militia home, shipped his regulars east to the
                    Niagara front, and soon resigned a second time from the regular army. Belittlers have said the whole
                    northwestern war was a mistake, that all energy should have been concentrated on cutting the
                        St. Lawrence River communication line. But we cannot say for certain what
                    flag would float today over the lake and prairie province, over the 
                        Illinois
                     and Wabash valleys, over the upper 
                        Mississippi
                    , if the British had been firmly entrenched in those part at the time of a precariously
                    negotiated peace. The mistake was not in trying to evict the British from the Old Northwest, but in
                    doing it badly, until sharp young Harrison replaced doddering old Hull, and the navy's
                    great victory let Harrison move invincibly by land.
         
         
         
            A Rural Indiana Weekly as Promoter: Editorials from the Peru Gazette of 1839
            Walter R. Houf∗
            
            Midwestern towns during the nineteenth century often sprang up overnight and grew into sizable
                    communities in a few years. Frequently their developers had grandiose dreams and envisioned them as
                    the metropolises of the future. In their minds the crossroads hamlet or the trading center on the
                    riverbank would swell into a thriving city serving the surrounding countryside. Fulfilling this
                    dream required an influx of many kinds of settlers who could produce the wares and provide the
                    services necessary for such a social and economic unit. Therefore, throughout most of the 1800s
                    promoters of particular midwestern towns sought to attract immigrants from older communities who
                    could practice the arts, crafts, and professions essential to their towns as well as to lure farmers
                    into their vicinity.
            Mark Twain, ever perceptive to the mundane side of man, satirized much of this promotional drive in
                        The Gilded Age. In this work, Colonel Beriah Sellers transformed a broken down
                    river landing into a paper city, claiming that it would contain all the facilities and services that
                    settlers and investors desired.1 An earlier article in The American
                        Review of October, 1845, also colorfully depicted some of the techniques used by
                    speculators and promoters. According to the Review one town developer found it
                    most convenient to lay out his settlement in midwinter when freezing temperatures provided firm
                    footing in what was otherwise a marsh.2
            
            Whether they were reputable or shady ventures, incipient towns had to be publicized if they were to
                    attract the settlers so essential to their survival. As a result local newspapers often acted as
                    publicity agents for them. The editor's reasons for doing so varied. He might be an open or
                    surreptitious representative of the town's developers who had established the press
                    specifically to advertise the community. Perhaps his admiration resulted from a sincere conviction
                    that the settlement offered the greatest opportunity and the best society available to new
                    residents. Or he could serve as publicist because his success was tied to the growth of the town,
                    for more than likely if the comthe county had probably begun about 1827, but 
                        Miami County
                     was not officially organized until 1834. Miamisport, the first town in the county, was
                    munity prospered, the newspaper prospered. Consequently many small town 
                  
                     ∗ Walter R. Houf is assistant professor of history, Drake
                            University, Des Moines, 
                                Iowa
                            .
                  
                     1 Mark Twain and Charles Dudley Warner, The Gilded Age: A
                                Tale of Today (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1873), I, 197.
                  
                     2 "'Commercial
                            Delusions'—Speculations," The American
                            Review, II (October, 1845), 341-57, reprinted in Charles N. Glaab, The
                                American City: A Documentary History (Homewood, Ill., 1963), 147-59.
               
                     editors called attention to their localities through sketches
                    outlining the qualities which they considered most inviting.3
            
            Despite a somewhat general pattern of a booster press in the early Midwest, rural Indiana weeklies
                    seem to have been less active than those of neighboring states in promotional activities.4 However, a prominent example of the technique appeared in 1839. During that
                    year the Peru Gazette ran a series of promotional articles describing the natural
                    and economic characteristics of the town and its surrounding area. Defining their mission as one of
                    informing potential residents about the advantages of Peru and 
                        Miami County
                    , the editors, Augustus Banks and James B. Scott,5 stated that their
                    remarks were "particularly designed for that class of good citizens, who may chance to see
                    them, inhabiting the ridges of the Alleghany [sic] or the mountain
                    itself…." They claimed that it was unnecessary to tell Peru's residents
                    about the town's advantages since they were "self-evident truths familiar to all
                    our citizens…."6 Clearly illustrating the efforts of Banks
                    and Scott to encourage the growth of their community, the articles provide information about
                    Peru—indicating population, types of businesses, town plan, and anticipated improvements
                    in transportation. They also touch upon such social and cultural features of the community as
                    schools and churches. Since this particular emphasis became increasingly important in later
                    promotional literature, Banks and Scott display shades of the future in their campaign. The editors
                    also express the established community's fear that it might lose settlers to other towns
                    and states farther west.
            The area lauded by Banks and Scott included the town of Peru and 
                        Miami County
                    , located in north central Indiana. Lasting white settlement in laid out in 1829.
                    Rivalry between Joseph Holman, its founder, and William N. Hood, an influential resident, led to
                    Hood's laying out the town of Peru 
                  
                     3 Daniel J. Boorstin, The Americans: The National
                                Experience (
                                New York
                            , 1965). Chapter 17 is a good brief treatment of the booster press. Lewis
                            Atherton, Main Street on the Middle Border (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1954), 8-13, 28, includes information on the role of the local press in
                            promotion and an instance when an editor had to defend himself against the claim that he was
                            an agent of the developers of Algona, 
                                Iowa
                            .
                  
                     4 A sampling of Indiana newspapers produced almost no examples of
                            promotional editorials.
                  
                     5 Little information about Banks has been located. The 
                        
                                    Miami County
                                 Sentinel noted his death in 1891 at the age of ninety-one and recalled
                            that he had arrived in Peru in 1837, shortly thereafter becoming involved in newspaper work
                            with James B. Scott. His partner left more of a mark. His life spanned most of the
                            nineteenth century from his birth in 
                        Carlisle, Pennsylvania
                     , in 1815 to his death in Delphi, Indiana, in 1899. During
                            Scott's early childhood, his family moved to 
                                Brookville
                            , Indiana, then to several other towns in the state. During these years his
                            father served as judge of 
                                Wayne County
                             and also published a series of newspapers. James learned the printer's
                            skills from his father, and in 1839, after undergoing some of the difficulties common to
                            starting a local paper in the pioneer Midwest, he and Banks began publishing the Peru Gazette. 
                                    Miami County
                                 Sentinel, January 29, 1891; Indiana Biography Series, IV, 106-107,
                            Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     6 Peru Gazette, July 27, 1839. 
               
                     in 1834. Holman and Hood vied for the county seat, but the
                    latter agreed to donate land for a public square, offered to bear the cost of building a brick
                    courthouse and a log jail, and proposed to contribute lots to the Methodist and Presbyterian
                    congregations if his town was selected. Commissioners designated Peru the county seat in 1834. Hood
                    also enticed many Miamisport businessmen to Peru, either by giving away business lots or selling
                    them at a very low price.7
            
            In August of 1840 the Peru Gazette aligned itself with the Whig party, and the
                    editors began emphasizing partisan politics rather than publicizing Peru and 
                        Miami County
                    . From this date on, editorial space was devoted to arguing political issues,
                    criticizing the opposition, and endorsing Whig candidates. Viewed in the context of promotional
                    activities by rural mid-western weeklies of the mid and late nineteenth century, the articles in the
                    Peru Gazette are not unique. Instead, they indicate how this newspaper engaged in
                    a kind of campaign much more typical of the local press in other places and at other times.
            
               
                  7 George Pence and Nellie C. Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries:
                            Territory, State, and County (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XIX; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1933), 592, 595; Arthur L. Bodurtha, History of 
                                Miami County
                            , Indiana … (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1914), 86-88, 153-58. Today the old town of Miamisport lies within the city limits
                        of Peru. Its boundaries are Main Street on the north, 
                            Lafayette
                         Street on the east, Holman Street on the west, and the Wabash
                        River on the south. Bodurtha, History of 
                                Miami County
                            
                  , 156. 
            
            
            [Peru Gazette
                July 27, 1839]1
            
            We last week said something of the rise and progress of the district of country belonging to our
                    county [Miami] laying northwest of us—in this place we purpose [sic?]
                    continuing our remarks a little farther and nearer home, so as to embrace Peru and its suburbs, to
                    notice some of the results of enterprise and industry brought about in the short space of time of
                    less than five years. These remarks are more particularly designed for that class of good citizens,
                    who may chance to see them, inhabiting the ridges of the Alleghany or the mountain itself, or any
                    other country where the whortleberry and mullen grows luxuriantly in a favorable season, and the
                    whip poor-will whistles its mournful notes by moonlight. They are self-evident truths familiar to
                    all our citizens, every day affairs, and consequently of but little interest to any other than such
                    persons as those to whom we have alluded above, who may wish to hear of a better country than the
                    one which they inhabit.
            About five years ago the first sale of lots took place in Peru, then the town tract of land and the
                    country generally in a state of nature, where Indians and wild beasts held almost undisturbed
                    sway—at the present time Peru contains a population of near four hundred and the country
                    around well settled.2 Four years ago or about twelve months subsequent to the
                    time the town was laid out, a friend of ours informs us he came to this town, and when he supposed
                    himself in the neighborhood of Peru, made enquiry of some one whom he chanced to meet in the woods,
                    where he would find a tavern, he was directed to take a circuitous route up one cow-path and down
                    another, the best streets and roads to be found in them days, and on the rising ground near which
                    one of our best hotels is now situated, he would discover a round buckeye log cabin, ten feet by
                    twelve, which was the best tavern in Peru; prior to his arrival at the tavern and after he made the
                    first enquiry, our informant says he met a second friend on the then street and had to enquire the
                    second time for the tavern before he could find it through the woods and underbrush. On his arrival
                    at the inn he found a goodly number of the settlers met together discussing very earnestly some
                    points of law, over a good large fire composed of logs little short of the same dimensions of those
                    in 
                  
                     1 With minor changes in spacing these editorials have been reproduced
                            exactly as they were in the original newspapers. Printing and/or spelling errors (for
                            example, Alleghany, sufficint, accessable, pople, faned) have been retained and have not
                            been indicated by a [sic]. Inconsistencies in spelling and/or
                            grammar—enterprise, enterprize; lying, laying; centre, center—have
                            likewise been reproduced. Apostrophes which were omitted from possessives have not been
                            added, and colloquial expressions such as "them days" have not been
                            changed. In one instance a period has been added in brackets at the end of a sentence;
                            occasionally explanatory material has also been inserted in brackets. Photographic
                            reproductions of the original newspapers, which are located in the Archives Division,
                            Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , were used in editing. 
                  
                     2
                            The Sixth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1840, 359, does not list the population of Peru. Peru Township,
                            however, had 961 residents and 
                                Miami County
                             3,048. 
               
                     the walls of the hotel, in which they appeared all interested.
                    As soon as they had fairly discussed the questions of law having a bearing on the case, and the
                    Squire gave his decision, our informant had something of the best the country would afford prepared
                    to allay hunger and afterwards made himself better acquainted with the crooks and turns of the
                    streets in Peru.
            Peru is rapidly on the increase, probably growing as fast or more rapidly than any other town on the [
                        Wabash
                    ] river taking into view all things connected with its prosperity. There are at this
                    time several very respectable houses rapidly going up to completion, beside many other valuable
                    improvements making in town and country. Whilst our town lots are being improved the rich and
                    fertile soil of the surrounding country, is stripped of its foliage given it by nature and
                    successfully tilled, yielding abundantly to the enterprising and industrious farmer[.] At this time
                    there are in Peru five dry goods stores, one apothecary and drug store, three groceries, three
                    taverns, gunsmiths shop, four carpenters and joiners shops, two cabinet makers shops, one hatter and
                    one saddler shop, four tailors shops, two blacksmith shops, one tinners shop, two or three
                    shoemakers shops, three magistrates offices, one law office, four physicians, post office, printing
                    office, &c. This is about a fair estimate of the business transactions now going on in Peru,
                    the seat of justice of 
                        Miami county
                    .
            Taking into view the many natural advantages which this town and adjacent country is possessed of, it
                    may readily be supposed our improvements are not to stop where they now are, but march steadily
                    forward for the time to come as they have been progressing for the four or five years which are
                    past, and with equal or greater rapidity. One amongst the most valuable improvements in this
                    vicinity and one of incalculable advantage to the growth of the place, which deserves at least a
                    passing notice at our hands, is the elegant sawmill erected and very recently finished, situated at
                    the dam built across the river, half a mile above town from which the great 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal3 here obtains a supply of water. The mill is built
                    on a site immediately below the dam, and so constructed as to be at all times, summer and winter,
                    fed with a plentiful supply of water with perfect ease and safety, to drive two saws, which it is
                    calculated to run. We understand the proprietors of the mill here spoken of, have it in
                    contemplation to erect a flourering [grist] mill at or near the same place; the water power easily
                    obtained is 
                  
                     3 Construction of the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal, to be built from 
                                Toledo
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , to 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, was begun in 1832. The project was to be financed by a substantial
                            federal land grant and proceeds from the canal. Although some sources indicate that the
                            canal reached Peru as early as 1837, this article verifies that it was there at least by
                            1839. Not until July 4, 1843, was the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie opened for navigation from 
                                Toledo
                             to 
                                Lafayette
                            . Arthur L. Bodurtha, History of 
                                    Miami County
                                , Indiana … (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1914), I, 247-48; John Stephens, History of 
                                    Miami County
                                
                      (Peru, 1896), 181; Logan Esarey, Internal Improvements in
                                Early Indiana (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. V, No. 2; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1912), 78-95. 
               
                     sufficint for all such purposes. The extensive tannery
                    establishment on the canal at Miamisport, half a mile below town, should not be lost sight of, which
                    is in full operation and of much use to the citizens of this place and vicinity, where the necessary
                    supplies of the article manufactured, can at all times be obtained at reasonable rates, and of a
                    quality not inferior to that made at any other place. These are some of the results of enterprize
                    and industry which we have thought proper here to notice, which have recently taken the place of the
                    Indians hunting ground; there are other improvements of no less importance which we must at this
                    time pass over.
            A few months more the large and valuable tract of country, lately ceded to the government by our
                    neighboring tribe of Indians laying along the 
                        Wabash
                     south and east of us, will be offered for sale. The treaty entered into last fall by
                    the government's agent, Col. Pepper, calls for at least two hundred thousand acres of as
                    good soil as any in the State of Indiana, well watered and timber of every variety in great
                        abundance.4 This tract of country is now being surveyed, or perhaps the
                    survey is completed, holds out very strong inducements to those who wish to become possessed of
                    valuable tracts of new land, to make purchases, when a purchase can be effected. The extent of
                    country which will be for sale, its favorable location, the richness of the soil, watered as it is
                    by never failing mill streams and springs of wholesome pure water as ever run out of the bowels of
                    the earth, plenty of all kinds of timber for every purpose for which it may be wanted; all these
                    combined advantages to be derived by purchasers, will no doubt before another five years roll round,
                    draw to the country quite a dense population, and a valuable accession to the increasing population
                    of 
                        Miami county
                    . Situated on Little Pipe creek, which waters part of the above mentioned territory,
                    about two or two and a half miles from this town, is an excellent sawmill which yet sends many
                    supplies of lumber to town; and previous to the erection of the new mill at the Peru dam, nearly or
                    quite all the lumber necessary for building and other purposes on this side of the river, was
                    procured at this mill summer and winter.
            The line of the Central Canal, which is not yet located to any point on the 
                        Wabash
                    , will in all probability pass through the eastern extremity of the late purchase of
                    land, and run nearly the course of the Mississinawa river for a considerable distance above its
                    mouth, to some point below the mouth of 
                  
                     4 Government agent Colonel Abel C. Pepper completed this treaty with
                            the Miami Indians on November 6, 1838. It went into effect February 8, 1839. For text of the
                            treaty see Charles J. Kappler (ed.), Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties (2
                            vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1904), II, 519-24. For map showing area of cession and discussion of Indian
                            land cessions and removal in Indiana, see Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana
                                from Its Exploration to 1850 (2nd. ed., 2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1918), I, 374, 377-85. See also R. Carlyle Buley, The Old
                                Northwest: Pioneer Period, 1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950), I, 94-123. 
               
                     said river and a little distance above this place.5 It has been ascertained, and we believe correctly too, by those well informed of the
                    most practicable routes for said canal line, that it would be a saving of many thousand dollars to
                    the State, and a large amount of labor, to have its termination at the river near this place, that
                    it would conserve as well or better to the interests of the community at large, than perhaps any
                    other accessable point higher up the river. From all the information we have been able to gather on
                    this subject, we are of the opinion, and it is no doubt the opinion of a large portion of the pople,
                    founded on reason and judgment, that the arguments to be aduced in favor of a point at or near this
                    place for its termination, are about as two to one over any other place at all practicable further
                    up the river. It is yet unknown how soon a survey and location of this line of improvement will be
                    made or the work entered upon, but it is to be done, and no doubt will be attended to by those into
                    whose hands have fallen the care of the public improvements of the State, in due season; a year or
                    two will unravel the mystery.
            [Peru Gazette
                August 3, 1839]
            A friend of ours paying us a visit at the office the other day, made the remark that we had a most
                    beautiful landscape presented to view, of the tract of country lying immediately below town, along
                    the canal and river and including Miamisport. The observation made, caused us again to notice it,
                    perhaps for the twentieth time, and revived within us many pleasing reflections that our lot was
                    cast in a land of plenty, where kind 
                        Providence
                     supplies the wants and necessities of all who sow, and those who do not, in a country
                    as plentifully as any other. The gentle inclination of the land from the river back gives to it an
                    imposing appearance laying as it does beautifully to the sun. The first thing that presents itself
                    to view is the many gardens within the limits of town, tastefully laid off, bearing within their
                    enclosures all which the cultivators were want to produce in great plenty, which is now 
                  
                     5 In 1836 the Indiana General Assembly provided for an extensive,
                            state financed internal improvements system. The System of 1836 included plans for canals,
                            railroads, and roads. Two of the proposed projects were the extension of the previously
                            mentioned 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal to 
                                Terre Haute
                             and the Central Canal. The latter was to begin at the most suitable point on
                            the 
                                Wabash
                             between Fort 
                                Wayne
                             and 
                                Logansport
                            , proceed via 
                                Muncie
                             to 
                                Indianapolis
                            , down White River to the forks, thence by the best route
                            to 
                                Evansville
                            . When, due to lack of adequate planning, finances, and the Panic of 1837, the
                            System finally broke down in August, 1839, only a few sections of the Central, Canal had
                            been completed. As indicated in this editorial, the northern terminus of the canal had still
                            not been determined nor construction begun in 1839. For discussion of the System of 1836,
                            its effect on settlement in Indiana, and its eventual failure, see Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 408-36; John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), I, 321-27, 333-44.
               
                     at full mid-summer growth, and presents to the view a yield as
                    abundant as anticipation can reasonably suggest. Beyond the town plat is to be seen a hundred or
                    more acres of corn, now nearly at full growth, thickly though evenly set upon a soil as well adapted
                    to its culture as any, probably, in the world, the tops of which when faned by the southern breeze,
                    has a beautiful and pleasing appearance. A little further down is the village of Miamisport, if we
                    mistake not, the first white settlement made in the county, here is to be seen all of which we have
                    already noticed, with many residences recently put up, inter-mingled with buildings, the work of the
                    enterprizing and hardy pioneers, who ventured amongst the aborigines in years which are past.
            [Peru Gazette
                August 3, 1839]
            It is perhaps already well known to all our readers, that this town was laid out and sale of lots
                    took place about five years ago, which was then a country in a state of nature; view if you please
                    what a favorable change has been brought about even, without extending the observation further, in
                    Peru, and then look at the further improvements we may reasonably anticipate in the country, say, by
                    the time the year 1850 comes round. At the present time we have between four and five hundred
                    inhabitants pleasantly situated along ten or eleven streets, handsomely laid out, crossing each
                    other at right angles, with the several churches, frequent preaching and respectable congregations,
                    schools through the week and Sabbath schools well and profitably attended by the young and the
                    adult, this has all been brought about in five years. This being the fact, what may the year above
                    stated, ten years from this time, exhibit to view in this place and country. As improvements now
                    progress and emigrants come into the country, Peru may number five thousand inhabitants and the
                    county of Miami poll as many votes, instead of seven hundred as is now the case.6 The great natural advantages to this place are numerous, and if those advantages be well
                    improved, the time to come well spent, ten years 
                  
                     6 Peru did not achieve the spectacular growth envisioned by the
                            newspaper. The following chart indicates the population of Peru and 
                                Miami County
                             from 1840 to 1900. While it shows growth, that of the first two decades was far
                            from what the editors predicted. 
                        
                           
                           Peru
                           
                                        
                                            Miami County
                                        
                                    
                        
                        
                           1840
                           961 (includes Peru Twp.)
                           3,048
                        
                        
                           1850
                           1,266
                           11,304
                        
                        
                           1860
                           2,506
                           16,851
                        
                        
                           1870
                           3,617
                           21,052
                        
                        
                           1880
                           5,280
                           24,083
                        
                        
                           1890
                           7,028
                           25,823
                        
                        
                           1900
                           8,463
                           28,344
                        
                      From the federal census reports for the years cited.
               
                     we confidently say will carry us far beyond countries being much
                    our senior in years in improvements of every class. The country will be checkered over with good
                    roads and canals, which is as much susceptible of being easily and profitably improved in this way
                    as the general face of any country under the sun. As improvements march on, towns and villages will
                    spring up as if by magic, on sites which the wild deer and wolf now take their nightly repose in
                    silence, and the day hunter pass over without beholding any thing with admiration but the richness
                    of the soil which he treads upon. In ten years Peru may in all probability boast of her fine bridge
                    erected across the 
                        Wabash
                     at the end of 
                        Broadway
                    , a handsome and well finished structure over which may pass daily many the residents of
                    the country a part of which has but very recently passed into the hands of the government. In 1850 a
                    South Peru may be built up, where now the lonely shanty stands shaded by the sycamore which nature
                    planted there, numbering many more inhabitants, than does now Peru proper. The expiration of ten
                    years in all probability will find a great central thoroughfare through the State from a point on
                    the river at or near this place, along which the rich products of the country will pass north and
                    south as they may be required, or the fluctuation of markets dictate. On either side of this canal
                    may stand erected splendid specimens of architecture, as costly as any of which the state can now
                    boast, lockports, farms and farm houses as tastefully got up as New 
                        England
                     can present to the eye of the backwoodsman.
            [Peru Gazette
                September 28, 1839]
                    For The Gazette
               7
            
            PERU.
            "What beautiful little village is that, springing up in the midst of this
                    wilderness," inquired my friend as we emerged from the deep shades of the lovely forest,
                    known as the "MIAMI
                    RESERVATION," which skirts the southern border of the 
                        Wabash
                     river, almost in the center of the State of Indiana.
            "That," said I, "is the town of PERU, the seat of
                    Justice for Miami, one of the richest counties of land in the State. Five years ago that lovely
                    little village had no existence; now it contains nearly five hundred inhabitants, as industrious,
                    enterprising and respectable as are to be found in any other place."
            "How vast! how wonderful! the change that has been wrought upon this section of country
                    within a very brief space of time," said my companion. "Ten years since this whole
                    region was one unbroken forest—
            
               
                  7 While this item has the appearance of a letter to the editor and is
                        signed "M," it is possibly an editorial in disguise, since editors frequently
                        used this technique to present their opinions.
            
            
            "Where nothing dwelt but beasts of prey, And men as fierce and wild as
                        they,"—8
            
            Now it begins to "bud and blossom as the rose." The all pervading spirit of modern
                    enterprise has but to wave over the primeval forest,—her magic wand and forthwith, in the
                    twinkling of an eye, up springs beautiful villages and cultivated farms, all teeming with an
                    industrious and happy population, enjoying all the advantages of canals, rail roads, and turnpikes,
                    in the full tide of successful operation."9
            
            The town of PERU is delightfully situated upon a gently elevated plain, a short
                    distance below the confluence of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Mississinawa rivers, and immediately on the north bank of the former stream. It
                    must undoubtedly from its dry and elevated position, be a healthy location,—and
                    surrounded as it is, with a soil of unsurpassed fertility, abounding with springs and honey brooks
                    in great variety—and having an abundant supply of the best hydraulic power, it bids fair
                    to become at no distant day, one of the most business points on the "Upper 
                        Wabash
                    ."
            The county of Miami contains nearly four hundred square miles of territory, a large portion of which
                    is the richest alluvial or bottom lands. The majestic 
                        Wabash
                     rolls through it from east to west. And parallel with, and from five to eight miles
                    distant from this noble stream, glides the chrystal waters of the beautiful Eel, one of the best and
                    most permanent mill streams in the State. And then from the south east corner to the centre, that
                    wild and romantic forest stream, the Mississinawa, winds its solitary course, and mingles its limpid
                    waters with those of the 
                        Wabash
                    :—Thus affording to the inhabitants of this highly favored country, the
                    incalculable advantage of three fine rivers, together with many less, though important streams. This
                    and the adjoining counties abound with inexhaustable beds of iron ore of a superior quality, which
                    will ere long yield to the enterprising capitalist a rich reward.10 The 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal, that grand chain of communication, which is to connect, and commingle
                    the waters of Lake Erie with those of the gulf of Mexico, passes directly
                    through Peru. And last, though not least,— the Peru Collegiate Institute, the only
                    chartered college north of the 
                        Wabash
                    
                    
                  
                     8 Source unknown.
                  
                     9 Asterisks below are in the original editorial and do not indicate an
                            omission.
                  
                     10 According to Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, I,
                            365, the manufacture of iron ore was begun at 
                                Mishawaka
                             (
                                St. Joseph County
                            ) in 1837 and at 
                                Rochester
                             (
                                Fulton County
                            ) about 1839. Hoosiers were enthusiastic about the extent and richness of
                            Indiana ore, even predicting that cities in the northern part of the state would become
                            "ere long, the Pittsburg of Indiana." Subsequent experience did not bear
                            out such high hopes.
               
                     is located here, and bids fair to become a flourishing and
                    respectable institution of learning.11
            
            Now gentle reader in view of all these advantages, we have only to say to you, if you are seeking a
                    habitation, and a home, in the rich valley of the 
                        Wabash
                    , just give us a call, for we are satisfied that Peru, and the surrounding country,
                    "to be admired need but to be seen."
            M. [Peru Gazette
                October 5, 1839]
            
               EMIGRATION.—At no period perhaps since the first settling of this
                    country, has there been such a march of emigration into our country, as there has been during the
                    past month; from our own observation, we are satisfied that the number of movers this fall will more
                    than double that of the corresponding period last season. The farmers of the neighboring State of 
                        Ohio
                    , and older counties of our own beloved Hoosier land, are to be seen wending their way
                    through our town daily, we might say, to use a common place term and without exaggeration, in
                    droves, to their new homes on some of the rich lands north and west of us, in this 
                        Fulton
                     and other adjoining counties. There is room for all in this fertile region of country
                    and to spare, excellent locations for the farmer not yet made choice of, of every variety of land
                    desirable to the cultivator of the soil. The farmers we like to see coming and settling down on the
                    uncleared lands of the county, it speaks well for the rise and progress of improvements in this new
                    country.
            Where every variety of soil exist those who wish to own or cultivate it, cannot help but be able to
                    make a choice to their satisfaction. In 
                        Miami county
                     if the farmer wishes to have river bottom land, rich, level and a heavy growth of
                    almost every variety of timber, at a moderate price per acre, he can have such; if land a little
                    distance from the rivers, where farms are more easily opened, soil excellent, be prefered it can be
                    had; if higher and more rolling land be the choice, soil rich enough to produce fifty or sixty
                    bushels of corn to the acre, it can be purchased a short distance from the county town at cheap
                    rates; if wet prairie land is the choice of any, 
                  
                     11 The Peru Collegiate Institute was chartered by the state
                            legislature and opened in 1837. The act of incorporation granted the power to confer degrees
                            in the arts and sciences similar to degrees granted by other colleges in the 
                                United States
                            . In addition, the institution was to give immediate and serious consideration
                            to conducting a department for the preparation of common school teachers and was to
                            establish a division for training females in the branches of learning usually taught in
                            female seminaries. Indiana, Local Laws (1837), 17-18; Richard G. 
                                Boone
                            , A History of Education in Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1892), 60, 73. According to Bodurtha, History of 
                                    Miami County
                                
                     , I, 295, the institute was operated by the Reverend John Stocker, a
                            Presbyterian minister, and his wife, and financial difficulties eventually caused the
                            institute to close.
               
                     plenty to be had, which in many places might be converted into
                    the best of farms at about the same cost and labor of clearing an equal number of acres of wood
                    land; if dry prairie or oak opening land be prefered such can be had in our county to purchase at
                    prices varying from three to ten dollars an acre or upwards according to quality and location.
            Peru is situated in latitude about 41 deg. N., climate as healthy as the boasted Alleghany mountain
                    locations; we would not exchange our present place of residence with all the imaginary difficulties
                    incident to a new country settlement, for any other north, east, west or south, and a quarter
                    section of the best land to boot. The chilling wintry winds and drifting snows of the wide spread
                    prairies of 
                        Illinois
                    , nor the scorching summer sun of July and August dont have so direful an effect on us
                    as upon less fortunate settlers. The Iowanians and Missourians may be content with their homes, but
                    the settlers of Indiana have greater reason to be satisfied. The rocky cliffs, mountains and ridges
                    of the east, the endless snows and barren soil of the north, the rice, sugar and cotton fields of
                    the south and south west, all may have their charms, but give us a Hoosiers residence among the
                    cornfields and pumpkin vines of Indiana.
         
         
         
            Proclamation
            
               FOR: HOOSIER HISTORY AND HERITAGE MONTH … APRIL, 1969
            
                    TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS MAY COME, GREETING:
                
            
               WHEREAS, the proper exercise of citizenship by Hoosiers depends upon an
                    understanding of the history and government of the state of Indiana and an appreciation of our
                    natural resources; and
            
               WHEREAS, from statehood in 1816 to sesquicentennial in 1966, the State of Indiana
                    has witnessed a century and a half of steady growth—in an increasing population, in
                    building a strong educational system, in the development of industry, in providing equal opportunity
                    for all citizens to share in the state's economic bounty and in providing a structure of
                    sound government by our citizens which functions for the good of all; and
            
               WHEREAS, during April, the many Hoosiers who have made outstanding contributions to
                    our state's economic, educational, political and religious life–from the pioneer
                    period to the present–should be recognized by the citizens of Indiana; and
            WHEREAS, the beauty that is Indiana now is ours to preserve and protect for future generations of
                    Hoosiers to enjoy and the month of April will be a time when citizens of our state will be urged to
                    foster preservation and protection of our valuable natural resources; and
            
               WHEREAS, it is appropriate to designate the month of April as one dedicated to our
                    state and its history since it was in April, 1816, that the Congress and President James 
                        Madison
                     approved the admission of Indiana to the Union:
            
               NOW, THEREFORE, I, Edgar D. Whitcomb, Governor of the State of Indiana do hereby
                    proclaim the month of April, 1969, as
            HOOSIER HISTORY AND HERITAGE MONTH
            and urge that during this period, schools, libraries, historical societies, museums, theaters, art
                    associations, musical groups, service clubs and other organizations make a special effort to present
                    educational programs and pageants on this subject. I further urge that Hoosiers engage in special
                    projects to safeguard the natural beauty of our State.
            [SEAL]
            IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I HAVE HEREUNTO SET MY HAND AND CAUSED TO BE AFFIXED THE GREAT
                        SEAL OF THE STATE OF INDIANA, AT THE CAPITOL, IN THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS, THIS 18TH DAY OF
                        FEBRUARY 1969.
            
                    BY THE GOVERNOR
                
            [Signed] Edgar D. Whitcomb
            
                    GOVERNOR OF INDIANA
                
            [Signed] William N. Salin
            
                    SECRETARY OF STATE
                
         
         
         
            How to Teach History.∗
            
            We often hear teachers complain of their ill-success in teaching history. They assert their inability
                    to awaken and maintain an interest in the subject on the part of their pupils. This failure is owing
                    largely to the illogical manner of introducing the subject. History, and its natural cognates,
                    biography, and geography, should begin at home. Local history is always interesting to children or
                    adults. Begin with the history of your school, and set the children to collecting facts respecting
                    the school, together with sketches of persons, prominently identified with the history of the
                    school, and the school interest of the neighborhood. The biographical feature of this plan will be
                    found to be extremely interesting, and it is astonishing how children can gather and retain facts of
                    this nature.
            In like manner, extend the research from the school and neighborhood to the township and county, and
                    thence to the larger political divisions. This plan cannot fail to keep alive an interest in
                    historical research. It is the best plan because it is a natural plan. The teacher, as well as the
                    scholars, will feel an irrepressible interest, and history instead of being the dryest, will become
                    the most pleasant of studies.
            
               
                  ∗
                  
                            Muncie
                        
                        Daily News, February 11, 1881.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews Electioneering in a Democracy: Campaigns for Congress. By David A.
                    Leuthold. (
                        New York
                    : John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1968. Pp. 150. Notes, tables, appendices, index.
                    Paperbound, $2.95; clothbound, $6.95.)
            The book is a study of the details, mechanics, problems, and intricacies of congressional campaigns
                    in 1962 in ten 
                        California
                     districts, all in the 
                        San Francisco
                     Bay area. It is certainly a useful contribution to the field of political literature.
                    But, as is often the case, much of its value is in being an account of what was, and not of what is,
                    let alone of what will be. Six years mean many figures go out of date.
            There is also the caveat that what applies in one part of the country is by no means always
                    applicable in others, and the author gives this warning in the Introduction. Regional and local
                    considerations can do a great deal in shaping campaigns for any public office. If the book is read
                    with the thought constantly in mind that "it ain't necessarily so" when
                    it comes to the 
                        United States
                     as a whole, then the reader will be proceeding from a valid and necessary first
                    premise.
            This reviewer believes the author makes the task of the incumbent, who must defend his seat against a
                    challenger, look much easier than it really is. It is true that the incumbent has several built-in
                    factors at his disposal. For instance, by virtue of being a seated congressman, he is naturally
                    sought out and given more publicity through the two years before an election than is his opponent.
                    But it is no exaggeration to say that in the great majority of cases, a newly elected (or newly
                    reelected) member of Congress begins his campaign the day after the election itself. He knows that
                    somewhere in his district a potential challenger is waiting and ready. Every move, vote, and
                    statement of his total congressional service will be scrutinized and torn apart at campaign time. He
                    knows, too, that when challenged, he will be basically on the defensive and will be running on a
                    record that his opponent will be battering from every conceivable angle. Few incumbents feel safe
                    enough to rest easily, for "He who does not run scared just might run
                    second!"
            The author is a political scientist, and with all due respect to his own scholarship and the hard
                    work he put into his book, the term "political science" is itself somewhat
                    misleading. "Science" means precision and rules and theorems of unquestionable
                    validity, and a body of disciplined knowledge operating on predictable premises. "Political
                    art" would be far more accurate for, indeed, politics is much more art
                    than science.
            The book should certainly be read by anyone who contemplates running for Congress. For the general
                    reader interested in the political prize rings that are set up around the country every two years,
                    it does a good job of presenting an accurate, overall picture of just what "arts"
                    must be practiced and what must go into that period of a few weeks of frantic activity known as the
                    election campaign.
            
                    Martinsville, Indiana, Sixth District
                
            Congressman William G. Bray
         
         
         
            
               Z. T. Sweeney: Preacher and Peacemaker. By Lester G. McAllister. (
                        St. Louis
                    : Christian Board of Publication, 1968. Pp. 128. Frontispiece, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $3.25.)
            In the half century which began in 1871, within a Protestant group in Indiana which sought to
                    convince itself that it was no denomination, the most famous preacher was the eloquent and dynamic
                    Zachary Taylor Sweeney of the Disciples of Christ. As he is described in this short volume, the
                    energy of the man is much more impressive than his message. Though there is, on virtually every
                    page, a reference to his oratorical skill, there are few quotations from his sermons.
            Sweeney was a builder of churches, but he was not averse to leaving them when a fresh challenge
                    beckoned. His congregation in 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana, is his greatest monument, but he left it three times for other charges.
                    Sweeney's longest period of service at 
                        Columbus
                     lasted from 1876 until 1889, when President Benjamin Harrison made him consul-general
                    in Constantinople. Family ties, inadequate salary, and considerations of health caused him to
                    return, after two years, to his church in 
                        Columbus
                    . Evidently the Turkish government was not upset by his departure, because Sweeney had
                    encouraged missionary efforts during his short stay.
            The loyal Republicanism of Sweeney's father-in-law, Joseph I. Irwin, and his brother-in-law,
                    William G. Irwin, was rewarded by another political appointment in 1897, when the famous preacher
                    was named commissioner of fisheries in Indiana. Shortly thereafter the long pastorate in 
                        Columbus
                     was terminated.
            Sweeney deserves an honored place in Indiana's conservation movement. For fourteen years,
                    1897-1911, he spoke on the protection of fish and game in every part of the state. He convinced most
                    Hoosiers that hunting and fishing licenses were desirable, that poachers and vandals should be
                    fined, and that the operation of game preserves and fish hatcheries was a proper function of state
                    government.
            The last part of this biography constitutes an apology for the Disciples of Christ, for their stress
                    upon their unwillingness to hold to creeds, and, at the same time, for their insistence upon
                    immersion as the only form of baptism. Readers are told repeatedly that Sweeney was a peacemaker and
                    that he supported the ecumenical movement. But Sweeney distrusted theologians who questioned
                    immersion and who engaged in "biblical criticism." On occasion, he could charge
                    biblical critics with heresy (p. 91). From 1919 until his death in 1926, Sweeney, while pleading for
                    "unity," stood firmly for exclusion from the brotherhood of all who were not
                    committed to immersion.
            In his last labor of love, Sweeney was aided by William G. Irwin; his devoted wife, Linnie; his
                    daughter, Nettie Sweeney Miller; Marshall Reeves, and others. The Christian Foundation, which they
                    established, made the College of Religion at 
                        Butler
                     a reality, and classes began in September, 1925. The Christian Theological Seminary is
                    an outgrowth of that college.
            
                    Indiana State University, 
                            Terre Haute
                        
               
                
            Richard H. Gemmecke
         
         
         
            
               To Print the News and Raise Hell! A Biography of Wilbur F. Storey. By Justin E.
                    Walsh. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1968. Pp. ix, 303. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $7.50.)
            If we may believe Professor Walsh, men like Wilbur Storey modernized the American press. As editor of
                    the Jackson Patriot, the 
                        Detroit
                    
                    Free Press, and finally the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Times, Storey pioneered in newsgathering. No expense was too great in setting up
                    news bureaus in foreign capitals, in utilizing the telegraph, and in sending out reporters. Storey,
                    unlike many of his contemporaries, was a news competitor and introduced yellow journalism before
                    Joseph Pulitzer and William 
                        Randolph
                     Hearst.
            Storey began his career as a typesetter and forever remained a master of the printer's
                    craft, even after he had raised himself to the status of editor. The Free Press
                    and Times were perfect examples of typographical excellence. But if Storey
                    satisfied the highest technical standards, his news vending plumbed the lowest depths. He often
                    constructed news stories out of whole cloth. The worst example is the case of the
                    minister's daughter whom Storey declared promiscuous. Then finding his charge untrue, he
                    attempted to bribe a man to implicate himself as the girl's lover to avoid a libel suit.
            Even the ladies of the burlesque, the butt of his vituperation, publicly whipped Storey on the
                    streets of 
                        Chicago
                    . Storey campaigned against vice and immorality. Such things were a news staple, but his
                    own life was hardly a model. He was a thorough debauchee, and his hotel room was the scene of many
                    orgies. He finally contracted syphilis, which softened his brain. Consequently, the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Times was edited by an insane man in its later years, though the reader of
                    Walsh's book finds it hard to know just when Storey became so.
            Walsh aims to correct a common impression held about Storey: that he was guilty of treason during the
                    Civil War. Storey wrote his famous "fire in the rear" editorial in February, 1861,
                    while still in 
                        Detroit
                    , to express his unalterable opposition to a war. He was violently anti-Negro and turned
                    virulently against Lincoln when he adopted emancipation. Finally, after the most inflammatory
                    language, General Ambrose Burnside suppressed the paper, a policy which only made Storey a martyr to
                    freedom of the press. Walsh defends Storey from the accusation of treason. He may have been guilty
                    of extreme language, says Walsh, but not disloyalty.
            This is a well written book, about a bizarre man who was always a good copy. It received the Award of
                    the American Association for State and Local History for 1967. To Storey, news was not merely
                    novelty; it was also the big lie. To Walsh, Storey's news reporting was
                    "fascinating malice," and the editor made more than a million dollars from it.
                    Storey may not have changed American journalism as much as Walsh claims, but his place there is
                    large enough to cause troublesome thoughts to the editorial fraternity.
            
                    Northern 
                            Arizona
                         University, Flagstaff
                
            William H. Lyon
         
         
         
            
               Essays in 
                            Illinois
                         History: In Honor of Glenn Huron Seymour. Edited by Donald F. Tingley.
                    (Carbondale: Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, for Eastern 
                        Illinois
                     University, 1968. Pp. xi, 167. Notes, index. $5.00.)
            A book of essays honoring an historian retiring from teaching sometimes contains much opinion and
                    little, if any, research; is interesting perhaps, but of small value. Fortunately, Professor Tingley
                    has compiled seven essays that make a thoughtful contribution to state history and reflect a
                    national interest. Glenn Huron Seymour, recently retired after thirty-eight years on the faculty of
                    Eastern 
                        Illinois
                     University, specialized in 
                        Illinois
                     history, particularly Lincoln and Douglas. Written by his colleagues at Eastern 
                        Illinois
                     this Festschrift honors Seymour, described as the "strolling
                    minstrel of history."
            The essays chronologically cover 
                        Illinois
                     history from its statehood-frontier era to the Great Depression with emphasis on the
                    post-1865 period. Tingley discusses anti-intellectualism in the first thirty years of 
                        Illinois
                     statehood, contrasting this idea with the local histories written at that time. Lavern
                    Hamand recounts Lincoln's little known, devoted crony-bodyguard, and marshal of the
                    District of 
                        Columbia
                    , Ward Hill Lamon. Neil Thorburn discusses Governor John P. Altgeld's active
                    concern for higher education, especially at the University of 
                        Illinois
                    . John Buenker argues that urban immigrant legislators from 
                        Cook County
                     were a key supporting factor in state reform during the Progressive Era. John Keiser
                    recalls the labor activities of John H. Walker, who failed to thwart John L. Lewis' take
                    over of the United Mine Workers' Union. Robert Hennings describes the valiant though
                    unsuccessful efforts of Harold Ickes, "the chief political gadfly of 
                        Chicago
                    ," on behalf of Senator Hiram Johnson in the 1924 
                        Illinois
                     presidential primary. And David Maurer sums up the problem of 
                        Illinois
                     unemployment and relief in the 1930s, a statistical microcosm of the national economy
                    during the Depression.
            Drawing upon government records, manuscript collections, pertinent periodicals, and many nineteenth
                    century works, these soundly researched, well written essays demonstrate that the study of state and
                    local history can be of inestimable value to the examination of the larger national scene. To put it
                    another way, state and local history does not have to be an end in itself. To ignore history at this
                    level is to ignore many answers not necessarily found in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. For 
                        Illinois
                     history, this work indicates there is more to that state than Lincoln, Douglas, their
                    debates, the 
                        Chicago
                     fire, and the Pullman strike. As has become the trend in recent years, note citations
                    are at the end of the book, which is regrettable for they add much information to several of the
                    essays. A notable feature, for a collection of essays, is an index of names and subject matter. One
                    hopes that more Festschriften of this quality will appear, studies which are
                    interesting, stimulating, and thoughtful. Professor Seymour has been well honored.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            John D. Macoll
         
         
         
            
               Pullman: An Experiment in Industrial Order and Community Planning,
                        18801930. By Stanley Buder. Urban Life in America Series.
                    Edited by Richard C. Wade. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1967. Pp. xii, 263. Illustrations, tables, note on sources, notes,
                    index. $7.50.)
            Pullman, 
                        Illinois
                    , is identified as the site of the Pullman Palace Gar "Company town,"
                    where George M. Pullman precipitated an infamous strike by lowering the wages of his workers in
                    1894. Professor Buder views the town of Pullman as an experiment in community planning.
            In his introduction the author states that "Pullman was obsessed with the need for
                    system" and was convinced that "social reform and good business practices were
                    complementary" (p. xi). Buder illustrates his first statement by describing in detail the
                    genius of Pullman as a young 
                        Chicago
                     engineer who in 1855 planned and directed the raising intact of a number of multiple
                    story brick buildings four to seven feet above their original ground level and then three years
                    later turned his attention to designing a better sleeper car. George Pullman believed "that
                    Americans would gladly pay for quality" (p. 20). He successfully proved his point in
                    business but not in community social planning.
            Pullman was convinced that he could design a model community which would develop stability and
                    contentment among his employees and protect his company from labor unrest. Buder presents a graphic
                    description of the systematic building of the industry and the community, which included 1,753
                    dwelling units and every type of business necessary for a comfortable middle class society. The
                    author states that it still had all the characteristics of a company town which denied the workers
                    self-government and home ownership.
            Four years after the Pullman strike in 1894, the company received a court order to sell all land and
                    holdings except those used specifically by the industry. By 1930 all buildings and houses were sold
                    and one half were owner occupied. Buder describes the problems of the community from 1898 to 1930,
                    but unfortunately this era is discussed in less detail than the building period. The author
                    concludes that the stability which Pullman sought was not realized and further states that
                    "George Pullman's own conviction that the interests of business and community were
                    identical and that the businessman was competent to determine both was refuted by his
                    town's experience" (p. 230).
            Buder offers a valuable and well written new approach to the study of Pullman, 
                        Illinois
                    , although basically he presents few new facts or sources, especially concerning the
                    strike, beyond the works of Almont Lindsey's The Pullman Strike (1942)
                    and William Carwardine's The Pullman Strike (1894). Other than a few
                    minor statements which the reviewer thought required footnotes and the author did not, the work is
                    well documented. It is an excellent contribution to the study of urban life in America.
            
                    Edinboro State College, Edinboro, Pa.
                
            Russell E. Vance, Jr.
         
         
         
            
               Pioneers and Profits: Land Speculation on the 
                            Iowa
                         Frontier. By Robert P. Swierenga. (Ames: The 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1968. Pp. xxviii, 260. Maps, illustrations, notes, tables,
                    appendices, note on sources, index. $7.50.)
            In this brilliant first book Robert P. Swierenga has written the best monograph known to the reviewer
                    on this or any other topic in 
                        Iowa
                     history. The only other book which stands up to it in scholarship is Thomas R.
                    Ross' Jonathan Prentiss Dolliver (1958).
            Swierenga's method and style give promise of more good things to follow. Pioneers and Profits is a published version of his doctoral dissertation and clearly owes
                    much to the ideas of his mentor, Allan G. Bogue, to whom the book is dedicated. The author used the
                    quantitative approach and a vast body of computerized data, and his statistics are neatly imposed
                    upon an historical narrative based on a tremendous range of archival and secondary sources. Some of
                    his data fell into his lap, so to speak, as the by-product of a hearing before the Indian Claims
                    Commission; much of it he dredged up in county courthouses and in libraries from 
                        Iowa
                     to 
                        Virginia
                     to 
                        Boston
                    . The important thing is that he was skillful enough to reduce the data to a meaningful
                    narrative susceptible of logical treatment.
            Swierenga leans toward Horace Greeley's concept of the speculator as a settler or promoter who buys more land than he can personally use, holding it for a price rise.
                    Speculators were more active in 
                        Iowa
                     than in any other state (p. 6); therefore, this case study is of more than casual
                    interest and value. The author has studied the records covering fifty-three eastern and central
                    counties out of the ninety-nine in 
                        Iowa
                    , embracing four Indian cessions, an area equal to approximately half of 
                        Iowa
                    's land mass of nearly thirty-six million acres. In this essay the detailed
                    treatment is confined to the activities of large scale investors in government lands.
            Basically, Swierenga is seeking an answer to questions about the role of speculators in opening up 
                        Iowa
                     to actual settlers, primarily farmers. Like the Bogues—Allan G. Bogue and
                    Margaret B. Bogue, " 'Profits' and the Frontier Land
                    Speculator," Journal of Economic History, XVII (March, 1957),
                    1-24–he flatly rejects the traditional emphasis on the social and political effects of
                    government land policy, which have usually been pronounced as adverse, and treats speculation as an
                    aspect of economic history. The author wants to know who the speculators were, how much land they
                    entered in their own names at government auctions or other sales, and the price of such lands when
                    they were resold. The factual matter of the book and the author's conclusions are not
                    easily condensed into one simple generalization. By and large he finds that the speculators played a
                    helpful role in filling in and developing the frontier and do not deserve the bad name which has so
                    often been given to them. Many incidental questions are answered in the course of the study, and
                    several myths of 
                        Iowa
                     history are gently laid to rest.
            
            Although primarily a specialist's book for specialists, the general reader will not find
                    this work forbidding. It is attractively manufactured; the numerous tables and maps are well done;
                    and the indispensable footnotes are at the bottom of the page, a real boon in this case. One minor
                    error was noted: Henry 
                        Clay
                     Dean is mistakenly listed (p. 217) as a speculator who attained a seat in Congress.
            
                    University of Northern 
                            Iowa
                        , Cedar Falls
                
            Leland L. Sage
         
         
            
               Before Mark Twain: A Sampler of Old, Old Times on the 
                            Mississippi
                        . Edited by John Francis McDermott. Travels on the Western
                    Waters. Edited by John Francis McDermott. (Carbondale: Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1968. Pp. xxxiii, 298. Notes, illustrations, index.
                    $15.00.)
            The casual reader of Mark Twain is probably unaware of the fact that although Twain gave the
                    classical account of life on the 
                        Mississippi
                    
                    River he was not the literary discoverer of that stream. Indeed long before
                    Huck and Jim took their immortal cruise on the raft, many other adventurers had become familiar with
                    the western waters: explorers, merchants, slave traders, missionaries, backwoodsmen, keelboatmen,
                    and gamblers. A surprising number of them were articulate and literate, and some of their accounts
                    have the vividness and immediacy if not perhaps the nostalgia of Clemens' own record.
            With the present volume John Francis McDermott launches a fascinating new series of books about the
                    rivers of the Middle West, either anthologies of material gathered from miscellaneous sources or new
                    editions of titles long out of print and not generally available. Thus we are promised fresh
                    editions of Christian Schultz, Zadok Cramer, George H. DeVol, and J. C. Beltrami. This series should
                    prove invaluable.
            
               Before Mark Twain presents a wide spectrum of fluvial life, with the emphasis
                    generally on the river rather than on the settlements along its banks although both 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                        New Orleans
                     receive some attention. Steamboat travel on the 
                        Mississippi
                     before the Civil War was both exciting and hazardous. A boat was vulnerable in many
                    ways: it could run aground and be battered by the river current, it could be speared by a sawyer or
                    pierced by a floating tree, it could be blown sky high by an explosion which was often caused by the
                    captain's passion to win a steamboat race and by his willingness to feed the boilers with
                    turpentine or tar as well as cordwood. Few steamboats survived more than two or three years on the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                    , but this high incidence of disaster did not prevent the builders from fitting out
                    their vessels with elegant furnishings and providing passengers with sumptuous meals and well
                    stocked bars.
            Yet this is not to say that river travel was always comfortable. Slaves, immigrants, and the indigent
                    crowded the upper decks; sanitary arrangements were primitive, and space for sleeping was often
                    inadequate even if one had blankets and a mattress. Mosquitoes proved troublesome; the engines were
                         noisy; the smoke stacks belched black fumes. Sand bars often
                    brought the vessel to a violent stop. Inadequate railings allowed men to slip overboard. Gambling
                    and drinking were permitted most of the twenty-four hours.
            McDermott has drawn from a wide variety of sources: the chronicles of American and British
                    travellers, contemporary magazines, 
                        St. Louis
                     newspapers. The reader will find here Timothy Flint's description of the
                    variety of river boats, Schultz' amusing sketch of an Indian band which made eerie music
                    out of enormous kettles and the joints of sugar cane, the actor Joe Cowell's comment that a 
                        Mississippi
                     steamboat was a "high-pressure prison," Thomas 
                        Hamilton
                    's lugubrious dismissal of the river as a place of "solemn
                    gloom," and John Bradbury's graphic account of the New Madrid earthquake as it
                    felt to terrified voyagers on a keelboat. Other travellers testified to the abundance of the food,
                    the picturesqueness of the woodyards where the steamboats replenished their supply of fuel, the
                    kaleidoscopic scenery which unrolled in actuality like a John Banvard panorama in miniature.
            Every anthologist naturally faces a problem in selection. A reader might regret the omission here of
                    anything by Charles Dickens or Captain Marryat or Francis Parkman. Basil Hall is not represented,
                    and one looks in vain for that superb account of the social milieu on a 
                        Mississippi
                     steamboat which Herman Melville gives in chapter two of The Confidence
                        Man. Au contraire there are T. B. Thorpe and C. A. Murray and J. S. Robb and J. M. Field.
                    There are some twenty pages of illustrations by Jacob A. Dallas and a handful of cartoons by an
                    early artist named Arrowsmith. And there are excellent preliminary remarks and headnotes by the
                    editor. Before Mark Twain is vivid description and important social history.
            
                    University of 
                     Illinois, Urbana
                  
               
                
            John T. Flanagan
         
         
            
               The Democratic Republic, 18011815. By Marshall Smelser. The New American Nation Series. Edited by Henry Steele Commager and Richard B. Morris. (
                        New York
                    : Harper & Row, Publishers, 1968. Pp. xiv, 369. Notes, illustrations, select
                    bibliography, index. $7.95.)
            The task which Professor Smelser set for himself in offering this survey volume was to blend together
                    into a coherent narrative the great body of historical writings on the period from 1801 to 1815
                    published since the appearance of Edward Channing's volume on the Jeffersonians in the American Nation series in 1906. That he has done this with care and diligence is
                    unquestioned; the heavily footnoted volume is a storehouse of references to a half century of
                    scholarship. Moreover, he has lifted his work from the shadow of Henry Adams, whose monumental study
                    has long dominated surveys of the period. Yet the volume is not fully satisfying as a summation of
                    current scholarship in the period. The author's decisions on what is important to be
                    reported, what findings or interpretations of scholars should be accepted, and what should be
                    ignored, are based on subjective  judgments; his methodology does
                    not insure that his summary rests upon the most exhaustive studies that have been produced.
            Although Smelser departs from Adams' view of Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                    , like Adams he places major emphasis on foreign affairs and on the War of 1812. The
                    author's overall verdict on Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                     as Presidents rests largely on their records in handling foreign affairs, and it is
                    basically sympathetic. "It is easy to ridicule the judgments of Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                     on the problems posed by the great Anglo-French contest," he writes,
                    "but better solutions (except by hindsight) do not come readily to hand" (p. 323).
                    He refuses to accept Adams' description of Jefferson as leaving office an unpopular and
                    discredited President, and he rejects the picture of Jefferson and the Republicans as repudiating
                    the principles that brought them into power. The acquisition of power did not Federalize the
                    Jeffersonians, he argues. "The Republicans adopted new positions to meet newly discovered
                    circumstances" (p. 314). Jefferson's deviations from stated principles may be
                    viewed as "intelligent adaptation to unforeseen circumstances" (p. 191). 
                        Madison
                    , he acknowledges, did not provide the leadership of Congress that Jefferson had
                    furnished; his greatest difficulty was that he had been made President by the congressional
                    nominating caucus, and "
                        Madison
                     could never dominate his makers" (p. 186). Nevertheless, Smelser sees 
                        Madison
                     as an executive who learned from his mistakes and those of the nation and moved to
                    correct the deficiences that the reverses of war exposed. In assessing the causes of the War of
                    1812, the author subscribes to a "heap-of-motives theory" (p. 219), although he
                    concedes that "there could have been no war without either the orders in council or
                    impressment" (p. 220).
            While Smelser seeks to contribute to revising Henry Adams' picture of Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                    , he also seems compelled to help in deflating the popular image of Jefferson as the
                    liberal saint. There is far more attention to Jefferson as a man than to 
                        Madison
                    , and there is more about Jefferson as a person before he became President than there is
                    about him as a person while he was President. Since the popular image of Jefferson and the verdict
                    of Adams have little resemblance, it is not surprising that in challenging both, Smelser's
                    tone and conclusions produce a somewhat ambivalent portrait.
            
                    University of 
                            Missouri
                        , 
                            Columbia
                        
               
                
            Noble E. Cunningham, Jr.
         
         
            
               The Politics of the Universe: Edward Beecher, Abolition, and Orthodoxy. By
                    Robert Merideth. (
                        Nashville
                    : Vanderbilt University Press, 1968. Pp. xi, 274. Notes, bibliographic essay, index.
                    $5.95.)
            Few American families during the nineteenth century were more illustrious than the Beecher clan.
                    Lyman Beecher not only dominated religious thought during the first half of the century, coming as
                    close as any man could to being an "American Pope," he produced five extraordinary
                    children. The youngest daughter, Harriet Beecher Stowe, left her mark on history as the  author of Uncle Tom's Cabin, and the
                    youngest son, Henry Ward Beecher, as the widely famed pastor of 
                        Brooklyn
                    's 
                        Plymouth
                     Church.
            Robert Merideth's excellent study is about the oldest of the Beecher offspring, and in the
                    author's view, the most neglected. Edward Beecher, like his brothers, was virtually born to
                    the ministry. But in many respects his role was the hardest of all, because it fell to him to
                    reconcile the uncompromising orthodoxy of his father, a theology rooted in the sense of
                    man's depravity and God's stern justice, with the confidence in human
                    perfectibility of his own generation. The traditional theological dilemma–how man could
                    be held accountable for his sins if sinfulness was predetermined–became even more
                    disturbing in an age that insisted on the possibility of social and political reform.
            Believing above all in the relevance of religion to politics (which becomes, as in the title of the
                    book, "The Politics of the Universe"), Edward agonized over, and at least in his
                    own mind, finally resolved the problem. He advanced a doctrine of the preexistence of souls, whereby
                    it was as free spirits in a previous existence that we sinned, and a grieving God had no choice but
                    to punish us. The implications of the doctrine are important. It means that God is essentially
                    benevolent and that we have every reason to engage in social reform. The world becomes a great
                    "moral hospital," a place for men to atone for their preexistent crime.
            Beecher suffered considerable emotional turmoil in departing even this far from the orthodoxy of his
                    father and, for a long while, refrained from advancing his position forthrightly. As it turned out,
                    when the concept was elaborated, it won the sympathy of neither the old nor new school of Protestant
                    thought, and thus failed to bridge the chasm between them.
            Aspiring to synthesize religion and politics, Beecher could hardly remain aloof from the great moral
                    debate over slavery. His background determined that he would be an abolitionist, but a conservative
                    abolitionist, only gradually coming around to the proposition that the slaves must be freed
                    immediately, and never really at ease with the militant and uncompromising stance of a William Lloyd
                    Garrison. It says something about his politics as well as temperament that he preferred to absolve
                    individuals of responsibility by seeing in slavery the "organic sin" of the
                    society.
            On balance, Merideth has done well in tracing the thought of a troubled, but influential, figure. The
                    book is well organized and well written. This is not to say that it is altogether satisfying. A
                    man's ideas are in part, at least, an aspect of his personality and private life, factors
                    that the author barely touches upon. Nor is enough done to place Beecher in historical context. But
                    these are small matters compared to the book's considerable merits.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            George Juergens
         
         
         
            
               William Jennings Bryan: A Profile. Edited by Paul W. Glad. American
                        Profiles. Edited by Aida DiPace Donald. (
                        New York
                    : Hill and Wang, 1968. Pp. xxi, 251. Notes, bibliographical note. $5.95.)
            Plagued by assassinations and civil unrest and beset by the great, seemingly irreconcilable issues of
                    racism, war, foreign intervention, and imperialism, 1968 was a year of trial for the American
                    nation. Perhaps this is why William Jennings Bryan no longer seems to present the same archaic and
                    irrelevant figure of a decade or two ago. His voice once commanded the allegiance of multitudes when
                    he spoke out on issues as sensitive and turbulent as those which scar the political landscape today.
                    For the generation of writers who pandered to Wilsonian idealism he was a figure of fun to be
                    derided and abused. So it is probably no accident that the 1960s have been a bumper decade for Bryan
                    studies. Paolo Colleta, Paul Glad, 
                        Norman
                     Pollack, Stanley Jones, Lawrence Levine, and Ray Ginger, among others, have written
                    books which, if not always unstinting in their praise of the Commoner, indicate a new willingness,
                    shared by few earlier writers, to take him seriously. In the post-Wilsonian world of Lyndon Johnson
                    it has become increasingly apparent that many of those windmills against which historians once set
                    Bryan ajousting were really dragons after all.
            This little volume is an excellent way for the student and general reader to get at both Bryans: the
                    one who evokes contempt and the one who commands respect (or at least attention). It is a cross
                    section of some of the best historical writing on Bryan, covering every important phase of his
                    public career. One of the chief advantages in having so many varying points of view brought together
                    is the complexity that is revealed behind the facade of simple pieties in Bryan's rhetoric.
                    In the past this simplicity has reduced more than one sophisticate to helplessness before he ever
                    began to write and left him nothing in which to dip his pen but vitriol disguised as irony.
            Even the specialist will find useful the contrasts revealed by the juxtaposition of differing
                    viewpoints. Indeed, the effect is sometimes startling. Richard Hofstadter's famous essay
                    from The American Political Tradition, once considered so brilliant and
                    innovative, now seems curiously barren. Glad excluded writers like Paxton Hibben and H. L. Mencken
                    because they treated Bryan as an object of ridicule. Yet in some respects the Hofstadter essay seems
                    like an updated version of Hibben and Mencken. Hofstadter portrayed Bryan as an imbecilic and vulgar
                    figure unable "to hold steadily to a line of principle"; the irony plays around
                    his head like subdued heat lightning. If the reader searches for some sympathetic understanding of
                    the voice which once moved masses of men, he will find it only in Hofstadter's implied view
                    that the masses themselves were imbecilic and vulgar.
            The book has no index, which is a crime against civilized discourse, but one often perpetrated by
                    editors of anthologies. Also, a reviewer might quarrel with some of the selections. For instance,
                    the John T. Scopes' reminiscence reprinted from the Reader's
                    Digest is too frothy to serve with such solid  scholarly
                    fare. But Glad has put together a volume which is exactly what it claims to be: a profile both of
                    Bryan and of the enduring ambiguity of his relationship with historians.
            
                    Loyola University, 
                            Chicago
                        
               
                
            James Penick, Jr.
         
         
            
               Congressional Insurgents and the Party System, 19091916. By James
                    Holt. 
                  
                            Harvard
                         Historical Monographs, LX. (
                        Cambridge
                    : 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1967. Pp. viii, 188. Notes, bibliography, index. $5.50.)
            
               Spearheads for Reform: The Social Settlements and the Progressive Movement,
                        18901914. By Allen F. Davis. Urban Life in America Series.
                    Edited by Richard G. Wade. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1967. Pp. xviii, 322. Note on sources, notes, index.
                    $7.50.)
            James Holt's book is an inconclusive survey of the difficulties of the Republican insurgents
                    at the beginning of this century. The author attempts to explain the political independence of such
                    figures as Robert M. La Follette of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , George Norris of 
                        Nebraska
                    , and Albert J. Beveridge of Indiana. His view of party cohesiveness and discipline,
                    which may well come from his own 
                        New Zealand
                     origins, leads Holt to conclude, in one case, that "La Follette must surely
                    rank as one of the greatest fragmenters of the epoch" (p. 150) without allowing him to see
                    the continuous process of "fragmentation" and re-formation of coalitions that the
                    insurgents helped reinforce in the American party system.
            A scattering of very interesting insights makes the book valuable as, for instance, the recognition
                    that most of the insurgents came from one party, "safe," Republican states, which
                    helps explain their Republicanism, their initial party regularity, and their growing frustration
                    with parties as their own desires for reform and their personal ambitions increased. But as a
                    "study of the insurgents' role in the party system" (p. viii) the book is
                    limited by Holt's almost exclusive concern with the insurgents' inability to
                    control a party organization or a party program. The book argues that, failing to control, the
                    insurgents were forced into party regularity, political individualism without influence on parties,
                    or fruitless political fragmentation. It ignores insurgent influence on party leaders, the fluidity
                    the insurgents introduced into the constituent coalitions of the parties, and the effects of the
                    reactions of party leaders to insurgent independence.
            Allen Davis' Spearheads for Reform, an effort to assess "the
                    impact of settlement workers on the reform movements of the progressive era" (p. xi), is a
                    much more successful book. Davis begins by persuasively chiding some eminent historians of the
                    progressive era for oversimplifying the motives of reformers. He concentrates his own efforts on
                    small groups and individuals, making the complexity of their actions and motives amply clear. He
                    makes a subtle comparison of turn-of-the-century reformers and present young reformers which helps
                    the reader catch something of the enthusiasm of the  young men
                    and women who "brooded and read" but "longed to do something concrete to
                    solve social problems" (p. 10-11). These young people were "troubled by the
                    contrast of wealth and poverty" they saw around them, and "concerned because most
                    of the people" they knew "accepted or ignored the contrast" (p. 14-15).
            After introducing the major actors and the original impetus in settlement work, Davis deals topically
                    with the successes and failures of the settlement movement. While the device of topics, like
                    "Immigrants and Negroes" and "Working Women and Children,"
                    permits a detailed and careful examination of important areas of settlement concern, it confuses the
                    sequence of events, forces considerable repetition on the author, and gives too even a picture of
                    the settlement effort. The settlement worker's urgent sense of immediacy and the confusion
                    with which he had to deal is lost in the author's effort to obtain clear judgment by taking
                    one topic at a time.
            The list of urban reforms Davis shows as attributable to settlement workers is long and impressive.
                    He is careful to acknowledge that in many cases—as with the development of
                    kindergartens—the settlements did not originate the ideas, but they were instrumental in
                    demonstrating their usefulness in dealing with urban problems and in getting their acceptance on a
                    wide scale. His thesis that the settlements were "spearheads" of urban reform is
                    justified by his arguments from a mass of information, much of it relatively unused by other
                    historians. The book can certainly be useful to those concerned with urban affairs today, and it is
                    a careful, authoritative examination and judgment of the role of settlement workers in early
                    twentieth century urban reform.
            
                    University of 
                            Connecticut
                        , Storrs
                
            James O. Robertson
         
         
            
               Judicial Power and Reconstruction Politics. By Stanley I. Kutler. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1968. Pp. ix, 178. Frontispiece, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $5.95.)
            In deciding the Dred Scott case so as to support slavery in the territories, the Supreme Court
                    brought down upon itself throughout the North wrathful criticism that did not soon subside. During
                    the Civil War, and even the postwar years, hostility persisted toward the southern and
                    "dough-face" judges who, it was said, had perverted their judicial powers. When
                    old Chief Justice Roger B. Taney died in 1864, one remark was: "Better late than
                    never."
            According to most historians, the consequence of the Court's unfortunate intrusion into the
                    politics of slavery was a greatly weakened position in American government that extended well into
                    the era of Reconstruction. Thus it became timid, if not docile and impotent, at a time of great
                    constitutional stress and strain; and it meekly stood aside as one Radical measure after another
                    bent the Constitution rather badly.
            
            Stanley Kutler concludes that this interpretation is highly inaccurate. Actually, he argues, the
                    Court was remarkably independent in confronting inflammable issues and was boldly creative in
                    deciding significant cases in various fields of law. To be sure, there were numerous assaults upon
                    the high tribunal, particularly at moments when it was feared the justices would upset policies of
                    congressional Reconstruction. Proposals to neutralize or reform the Court, such as the perennial one
                    to require a two thirds vote on constitutional issues, came forward. Some of them succeeded; for
                    example, the number of judges was decreased, and the circuits were redrawn at the expense of the
                    hitherto dominant South. But basically, the author contends, there was an abiding respect for the
                    Court as an institution and for the process of judicial review, notwithstanding dissatisfaction with
                    members of the bench. As evidence of this, Kutler describes legislative measures for removal of
                    litigation from state to federal courts, and he shows that the Supreme Court emerged from the period
                    as a stronger body than it had been.
            Undeniably, the Radicals had some anxious moments. After the Milligan decision forbidding military
                    trials where civil courts were open, the congressional leadership feared that the Court would
                    invalidate the Reconstruction Acts because they established military justice in the ex-Confederate
                    states. I t turned out that petitions from 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Georgia
                     were rejected on the ground that they presented political, not justiciable, questions.
                    Then, when the McCardle appeal seemed to present the issue in the proper form,
                    Congress intervened by removing jurisdiction. Despite contemporary charges, as well as
                    historians' later interpretations, that the Court ignominiously backed away, Kutler points
                    to the subsequent Yerger decision reclaiming some of the jurisdiction which had
                    been thought to be lost. But even in Yerger, the Reconstruction Acts remained
                    untouched, probably because of the division of the judges on the constitutional question.
            This book is thoroughly researched in manuscript and other original sources, is competently written,
                    and will undoubtedly be a standard reference on Reconstruction history.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            Maurice G. Baxter
         
         
         
            Review Notices∗
            
            
               Sit-Down in Anderson: UAW Local 663, Anderson, Indiana. By Claude E. Hoffman. (
                        Detroit
                    : 
                        Wayne
                     State University Press, 1968. Pp. 124. Notes, illustrations, appendix.
                    $4.95.) This brief account, though based more on personal recollection than historical
                    research, illustrates that Indiana labor history can be told in part by concentrating on what
                    happened in a particular city as well as by emphasizing state or even national developments. Hoffman
                    narrates the history of labor organization and development in Anderson within the Guide Lamp and
                    Delco Remy plants of General Motors from the mid-1980s to the present. Hoffman, an employee and
                    labor leader, not surprisingly is often harsh in his evaluations concerning management practices and
                    policies. On the other hand, he is at times also harsh in his comments about some fellow workers.
                    Though not without its bias and limitations as historical writing, this volume is useful in
                    portraying the changing context, attitudes, and atmosphere which has characterized labor-management
                    relations during the period since the mid thirties. Moreover, Hoffman's role as a
                    participant adds at times a liveliness and earthiness commonly lacking in historical writing.
            
               Pioneer Sketches; Containing Facts and Incidents of the Early History of 
                            DeKalb County
                        . By S. W. Widney. W. T. & J. M. Kimsey, Printers, 
                        Auburn
                    , Ind., 1859. Reprint. ([
                        Auburn
                    , Ind.]: 
                        DeKalb County
                     Historical Society, Inc., 1968. Pp. xlvi, 53. Index of personal names. Pamphlet,
                    $2.75.) This item was published as a pamphlet at 
                        Auburn
                    , Indiana, in 1859. It had earlier appeared as a series of articles in the 
                  
                            DeKalb County
                         Times of 
                        Auburn
                    . As stated in the Introduction, "The present reprinting has been done by the
                    offset process to preserve the character of the original publication along with its typographical
                    errors, misspellings, and other errors" (p. xvii). Widney's account consists of
                    his personal reminiscences and historical material gathered mainly from the recollections of
                    contemporaries. The republication of Pioneer Sketches … of 
                            DeKalb County
                        
                is a useful project of the recently organized 
                        DeKalb County 
                     Historical Society. The editor of the Indiana Magazine of History is
                    pleased to note that the first president of this society as well as the chairman of the publication
                    committee which reproduced Pioneer Sketches, John Martin Smith, is a former
                    student of his in Indiana history. Other former students who make similar contributions to state and
                    local history will gladly be given like recognition!
            
               Vernon: An Indiana Town, 1968. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Junior Historical Society, 1968. Pp. 43. Illustrations. Pamphlet,
                    $1.00.) Indiana
                    
                  
                     ∗ Review notices are intended primarily to recognize a
                            variety of books and booklets concerning Indiana and the Middle West for which lack of
                            space, as well as their varying length and quality, makes it impossible to provide full
                            length reviews. Some items are included largely because they are reprints or new editions of
                            worthwhile publications; other items often are noted because their subject matter seems to
                            be of marginal value to the mainstream of Indiana or middle western history. Novels are
                            seldom noted unless they appear to have substantial historical significance. Unless
                            otherwise indicated, review notices are written by the editor. Limitations of time and space
                            frequently necessitate descriptive notices devoid of criticism or evalution.
               
                    
                    Countryside, 1968: Walker Township-
                            Rush County
                        . (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Junior Historical Society, 1968. Pp. 23. Illustrations. Pamphlet,
                    $.50.) These two publications, as their introductory comments expressly state, resulted
                    from architectural study throughout the Hoosier State sponsored by the Indiana Junior Historical
                    Society. The booklets consist mainly of pictures, principally of buildings, but include brief
                    explanatory material. A number of high school students from various schools participated in the
                    picture taking, research, and editing under the general supervision of Robert W. 
                        Montgomery
                    , director, and Albert A. Hodge, field representative, of the Indiana Junior Historical
                    Society. It seems quite evident that the students who participated have gained significant
                    information about Indiana history and the techniques of historical research and field work. The
                    numerous pictures are of value in recording evidence of contemporary architecture in rural Walker
                    Township and the small town of Vernon. Unfortunately, historical commentary and explanatory captions
                    are meager and (as both booklets frankly state) at times of questionable accuracy. Nevertheless, as
                    indicated, there is considerable value connected with these studies. These two publications may be
                    obtained from the Indiana Junior Historical Society, State Library and Historical Building (Room
                    408), 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46204.
            
               Executive Reorganization in Indiana: Report of the Commission for the Reorganization of
                        the Executive Branch of Indiana State Government. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Commission on Executive Reorganization, 1968. Pp. vi, 37. Charts, individual agency
                    index. Pamphlet.) This is a concise, readable, and well organized account of the report of the
                    Commission for the Reorganization of the Executive Branch of Indiana State Government, appointed by
                    Governor Roger D. Branigin pursuant to an act of the 1967 Indiana General Assembly. Although
                    intended principally for study by legislators, it is of considerable value for students or citizens
                    interested in a closer look at Indiana state government.
            
               Indiana Folklore: Journal of the Hoosier Folklore Society. Edited by Linda
                    Dégh. Vol. I, No. 1. (
                        Bloomington
                    : The Hoosier Folklore Society, Fall-Winter, 1968. Pp. 112. Magazine.) In this initial
                    issue of Indiana Folklore introductory comments by Editor Linda Dégh;
                    Stith Thompson, the "dean" of Indiana folklorists; and William Hugh Jansen, of the
                    University of 
                        Kentucky
                    , review some highlights of the Hoosier Folklore Society since its organization in 1938.
                    Comment is also made about predecessors of Indiana Folklore: Hoosier Folklore Bulletin,
                        Hoosier Folklore, and Midwest Folklore. The first number of Indiana Folklore includes texts for sixteen folk legends which are described as
                    "vigorously alive … and currently being passed around in the state of
                    Indiana" (p. 9). The next issue of the magazine will offer texts of additional Indiana folk
                    legends. All interested in Indiana's history and heritage will doubtless wish Indiana Folklore a long and useful life. (Individuals interested in subscribing to this
                    magazine should write  the Secretary-Treasurer of the Hoosier
                    Folklore Society, 714 East 8th Street, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401. Individual membership dues are $3.00 per year; student
                    membership, $1.50 per year; and institutional membership, $5.00 per year).
            
               Recollections of the Last Ten Years in the Valley of the 
                            Mississippi
                        . By Timothy Flint. Reprint. Edited with an Introduction by George R. Brooks.
                        Travels on the Western Waters. Edited by John Francis McDermott. (Carbondale:
                    Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1968. Pp. xxiv, 343. Illustrations, notes, sources consulted, index.
                    $15.00.) The substantial significance of Flint's Recollections of
                        the Last Ten Years in the Valley of the 
                            Mississippi
                        
                as an historical source was emphasized in a recent issue of the Indiana Magazine of History (December, 1968) in commenting on another reprint of it. This
                    additional reissue "follows the 1826 original without any changes to the text" (p.
                    ix). The foreward by General Editor John Francis McDermott and both the Introduction and copious
                    footnotes by Editor George R. Brooks add measureably to the usefulness of this volume.
                    Flint's Recollections, incidentally, is a well written account, and
                    readers should find this early account of life in the West fascinating as well as informative.
            
               The University of 
                            Chicago
                         Press: Catalogue of Books & Journals, 1891-1965. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1967. Pp. xxxiv, 405. Illustrations. $6.00.) This volume indicates
                    the impressive story of the University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press during the initial seventy-five years since its founding in 1891. Historical
                    highlights concerning the press are presented in a concise sketch by Roger W. Shugg, its present
                    director. The most impressive thing about this volume is the record of achievement abundantly
                    indicated by the listing of books and journals published. Both the sketch by Shugg and the listing
                    of publications, however, make clear that the University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press has been far more than a mere university press and that, not infrequently,
                    anticipated revenue from books has had priority or at least major consideration in the selection of
                    books for publication. As the title indicates, the press has had a significant role in the printing
                    of numerous professional journals. For instance, it currently publishes thirty of them, with
                    circulation ranging from 450 to 18,500 (pp. xxx-xxxi). Would that all volumes as substantial in size
                    as this one could be published for $6.00. Presumably this catalogue is a subsidized
                    venture—not a harbinger of a new low price policy by the University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press.
            
               Bibliography of American Historical Societies (The 
                            United States
                         and the Dominion of 
                            Canada
                        . Second edition. By Appleton Prentiss Clark Griffin. Annual
                        Report of the American Historical Association for the Year 1905.
                    
                        Washington
                    , 1907. Volume II. Reprint. (
                        Detroit
                    : The Gale Research Campany, 1966. Pp. 1374. Appendix, indices. $35.00.) This
                    bibliography of historical society publications as of the early twentieth century is a helpful guide
                    for researchers and an appropriate reminder that historical societies had achieved much in the field
                    of historical publication during the nineteenth  century.
                    Bibliographical listings are given for state and local as well as for national historical societies.
                    Moreover, historical publications are included for various societies which are not historical in any
                    strict sense. Detailed indices-subject and author in particular, but biographical sketches as
                    lvelladd much to the usefulness of this fat volume.
            
               A Bibliography of the History of Agriculture in the 
                            United States
                        . By Everett E. Edwards. 
                        United States
                     Department of Agriculture Miscellaneous Publication No. 84, 
                        Washington
                    , 1930. Reprint. (
                        Detroit
                    : Gale Research Company, 1967. Pp. iv, 307. Index. $14.00.) This
                    Edwards' bibliography concerning agricultural history of the 
                        United States
                     prior to 1930 remains a very useful guide for researchers and students of American
                    agriculture generally. Of particular value are its comments and evaluations about numerous items
                    listed, including various types of publications from agencies of the federal government. The
                    categories into which the bibliography is organized are well indicated in the table of contents.
                    This reviewer, for instance, was amazed to note items concerning Indiana agriculture which might
                    otherwise easily be missed. Incidentally, if the Indiana section is typical-and it seems to
                    be-publications of land grant colleges such as Purdue University are apparently, and understandably,
                    outside the scope of Edwards' bibliography.
            
               Servants without Hire: Emerging Concepts of the Christian Ministry in the 
                            Campbell
                        -Stone Movement. By William Martin Smith. The Forrest F. Reed Lectures for
                    1967. (
                        Nashville
                    : The Disciples of Christ Historical Society, 1968. Pp. 95. Notes. $2.95.)
                    The development of an educated, paid, professional ministry developed slowly and haphazardly in the
                    Middle West during the nineteenth century. This volume, the outgrowth of three lectures which Dr.
                    William M. Smith of 
                        Indianapolis
                     delivered under the auspices of the Disciples of Christ Historical Soicety at
                            
                  Nashville, Tennessee
               , in 1967, vividly and interestingly describes persistent
                    popular attitudes which made it most difficult for the Disciples of Christ to evolve such a
                    ministry. I t also helps to explain why effective organization and coordination of efforts and
                    resources have been difficult to achieve among Disciples of Christ.
            
               Outlawing the Spoils: A History of the Civil Service Reform Movement, 1865-1883. By
                    Ari Hoogenboom. Reprint. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1968. Pp. xi, 306. Notes, bibliography, appendices, index. Paperbound,
                    $2.95.) The above is a paperback reprint of a study which first appeared in 1961. Various
                    reviewers have regarded it as the definitive or standard study of civil service reform for the two
                    decades following the Civil War.
            
               More Indian Lore. Compiled and written by E. Wendell and Josephine Lamb and
                    Lawrence W. Shultz. The authors, 1968. Pp. 271. Illustrations, index, $4.00.) This
                    publication contains much the same kind of material as included by the authors in their Indian Lore (1964), except that it principally concerns the lore of Indians from other
                    states and the nation at large whereas the earlier volume was chiefly devoted to Indiana.
            
            
               Frontier America: The Story of the Westward Movement. Second edition. By Thomas D.
                    Clark. (
                        New York
                    : Charles Scribner's Sons, 1969. Pp. xii, 836. Maps, illustrations,
                    bibliography, appendix, index. $8.95.) The text of this edition of Frontier
                        America is little changed from that of the original version which appeared in 1959. The
                    bibliography, a selective rather than a comprehensive one, has been updated to include a sprinkling
                    of books which have appeared during the last decade. This volume offers a general account of the
                    westward movement in the 
                        United States
                     from the Appalachian Mountain area across the country to the
                    Pacific Ocean during approximately the century and a half following 1750. Individuals particularly
                    interested in the beginnings and early development of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley-Great Lakes region will find this story especially well told in the initial
                    fifteen chapters. Emphasis is given to social, economic, and cultural development as well as to
                    political and constitutional history. If there is any more scholarly or more interesting account of
                    the early history of this area than the one afforded by Clark, this reviewer is unaware of it.
            
               Sections and Politics: Selected Essays by William B. Hesseltine. Edited with an
                    Introduction by Richard N. Current. (
                        Madison
                    : State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1968. Pp. xxx, 150. Frontispiece, notes, bibliography, appendix. $5.00.)
                    The essays in this volume, as well as the introductory ketch by Current, pay tribute to the late
                    Professor William B. Hesseltine. Both indicate, that Hesseltine interpreted sectional influences in
                    American history in a sweeping and often controversial manner. For instance, he viewed he
                    competition between groups within sections to be fundamentally important. He even thought the
                    proslavery argument developed by southerners as more the result of slaveholders' reactions
                    to threats from nonslaveholders of the South than to their concern about attacks on slavery from the
                    North. Current's sketch of Hesseltine, his former teacher, and his evaluation of the
                    essays—though sympathetic to his mentor—are fortunately much more forthright
                    and critical than such evaluations generally are.
            
               Patrons and Patriotism: The Encouragement of the Fine Arts in the 
                            United States
                        , 1790-1860. By Lillian B. Miller. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xv, 335. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $8.50.)
                    The augmented interest in the fine arts in the 
                        United States
                     which has persisted since World War II should encourage attention to books such as this
                    one by Miss Miller. She gives consideration to the status of and trends concerning the fine arts in
                    the important, formative era from the late eighteenth century until the eve of the Civil War. The
                    demand that government at its various levels play an enlarged role in fostering the fine arts
                    existed in this early period as it has in recent decades. Miss Miller's illustrations,
                    substantial and informative notes, and her bibliography add significantly to the usefulness of her
                    volume.
            
            
               Early American Beverages. By John Hull 
                        Brown
                    . (Rutland, Vt.: Charles E. Tuttle Company, 1966. Pp. 171. Illustrations, glossary,
                    bibliography, indices. $10.00.) This book is a most interesting "account of the
                    role and importance of alcoholic and other beverages in early American life" (p. 13) and
                    provides a copious number of recipes to tempt the home brewer. The chapters deal with various types
                    of alcoholic drinks, temperance drinks, medicinal beverages, and the role of the tavern. In many
                    recipes one is limited by the present availability of ingredients, but it is not impossible to
                    concoct some of the spirits of the early settlers. The recipes in any case are delightful reading;
                    the woodcuts, oil paintings, and other historical items reproduced in the volume are quite
                    informative and interesting. The glossary is helpful but could have been expanded to include more
                    terms used in recipes. The bibliography is extensive and includes many items presumably from 
                        Brown
                    's "own personal library of rare printed and manuscript sources, from
                    the seventeenth through the nineteenth centuries" (p. 13). The indices of persons, places,
                    inns and taverns, and recipes increase the usefulness of the volume. Pamela J. Bennett,
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Early American Herb Recipes. By Alice Cooke 
                        Brown
                    . (Rutland, Vt.: Charles E. Tuttle Company, 1966. Pp. 152. Illustrations, bibliography,
                    index. $10.00.) A companion volume to Early American Beverages, this
                    work contains over five hundred authentic early American herb recipes, transcribed just as they
                    appeared in the original sources (p. 12). The recipes range in content from the medicinal and
                    culinary uses of herbs to the preparation of toiletries, perfumes, and pomatum. Also included is
                    material on herb gardens and borders and the picking and preservation of herbs. As the author
                    states, "Some of the remedies seem fantastic and beyond the remotest stretch of the
                    imagination; some are ludicrous, and others are founded on sound principles and undoubtedly produced
                    excellent results" (p. 11). Readers may find themselves unable to reproduce many of the
                    recipes due to present unavailability of ingredients. Certainly caution should be used in
                    prescribing any of the medicinal cures. The fascimile reproductions of early American herbs and the
                    many other illustrations enhance the beauty and usefulness of this fascinating volume. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
      
   
