
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 90, Issue 4, pages 311-397. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:90+issue:4+year:1994&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            "To Secure Honest Elections": Jacob Piatt Dunn, Jr., and the Reform of
                    Indiana's Ballot
            Ray Boomhower*
            
            At the opening of the Indiana General Assembly's sixty-seventh session on January 5, 1911,
                    Democratic Governor Thomas R. Marshall addressed a legislature different from the one before which
                    he had first appeared. At that time, two years earlier, following his gubernatorial victory over
                    Republican opponent James Watson, power had been split between Democrats who controlled the House
                    and Republicans who held a majority in the Senate. Democratic gains in the 1910 election, however,
                    gave that party majorities in both chambers for the 1911 session. Despite this partisan advantage
                    Marshall's message to the lawmakers gave credence to his self-description as a
                    "Progressive with the brakes on."1 Marshall called on the
                    General Assembly to act on such issues as compulsory workmen's compensation, new child
                    labor laws, and voter registration reform. Early in his speech he noted that there were
                    "certain provisions of our Constitution which do not meet present conditions."
                    Although he did not wish to see the document "radically altered," Marshall
                    believed that the sixty-year-old Constitution was in need of revisions which would, among other
                    things, curtail aliens' voting rights, increase the length of legislative sessions, and
                    ease the often complicated constitutional amendment process.2
            
            Marshall softened his call for changes to the 1851 Constitution by conceding to the legislators that
                    there were "other important matters pending before you." Should these other
                    matters be decided, Marshall continued, "it is not improbable that I shall again address
                    you upon them [the Constitution revisions]."3 The governor's
                    offhand mention of possible changes in the Constitution was a poor indication of the legislative
                    firestorm he would soon unleash. In a little over a month's time the General Assembly was
                    in full 
                  
                     * Ray Boomhower is Public Relations Coordinator for the
                            Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and is contributing editor for the IHS's popular history magazine,
                                Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History. He would like to thank Dr.
                            Robert Barrows, assistant professor of history at Indiana University—Purdue
                            University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; and Kent Calder, Paula Corpuz, and Megan McKee of the IHS for their comments
                            on earlier drafts.
                  
                     1 Ralph D. Gray, Indiana's Favorite Sons,
                                1840–2940 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1988), 27.
                  
                     2 Indiana, Senate Journal (1911), 23.
                  
                     3
                     Ibid., 24.
               
                     partisan cry over not just a few amendments or a call for a
                    fullfledged constitutional convention, but an entirely new Indiana Constitution. Republican
                    opponents blasted Marshall's action, terming it illegal and a usurpation of authority on
                    the governor's part. If allowed to pass, warned GOP Representative Jesse E. Eschbach, the
                    measure would "lead to internal strife and dissension and eventually
                        revolution."4
            
            The document that caused such bitter partisan bickering became known as the "Tom Marshall
                    Constitution." Such a distinction, however, was misleading since it was created not after
                    consultations by the governor with his usual friends and advisors, nor in the legislative
                    process's usual give and take. Instead, as Marshall's biographer Charles M. Thomas
                    wrote years later, work on the new Indiana Constitution "had been done quietly in the
                    Governor's office." According to Thomas, the governor "was largely
                    influenced by the advice of one man whom he relied upon to draft much of the
                        constitution."5 That one man was former attorney, prospector,
                    journalist, Indiana historian, and Democratic party regular—Jacob Piatt Dunn, Jr. It was
                    Dunn who wrote the revised Constitution and suggested a way around the cumbersome constitutional
                    amendment process by bypassing the usual reform methods for the more radical approach of introducing
                    the new document to the lawmakers. Once it passed the legislature, it would be presented to Hoosier
                    voters for their decision at the 1912 election and, if successful, would become law.
            From the key role he played in adopting the Australian ballot system in Indiana to his failed attempt
                    at enacting a new state Constitution, Dunn was at the vanguard of a reform movement working to
                    cleanse Indiana's sordid reputation at the ballot box. The Australian ballot system (also
                    known as the "official" ballot), which was passed into law in that country in
                    1857–1858, was a relatively new way for Americans to vote. The first secret ballot law in
                    the 
                        United States
                     had been passed for the city of 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , just
                    nine months prior to the 1888 election. 
                        Massachusetts
                     became the first state to approve the system shortly after 
                        Louisville
                     enacted its law. The Australian voting method was easy to understand; the government
                    was responsible for printing and distributing ballots, and each polling place had to provide a way
                    for voters to mark their ballots in secret. Reformers argued that this method would help eliminate
                    vote buying "by removing the knowledge of whether it has been successful."6 Despite his lingering nativist taint 
                  
                     4 Indiana, House Journal (1911), 1758.
                  
                     5 Charles M. Thomas, Thomas Riley Marshall, Hoosier
                                Statesman (
                        Oxford, Ohio
                     , 1939), 88.
                  
                     6 Eldon Cobb Evans, A History of the Australian Ballot
                                System in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1917), 21. See also Lionel E. Fredman, The Australian Ballot: The
                                Story of an American Reform (
                        East
                                Lansing, Mich.
                     , 1968).
                            For Indiana's experience with the Australian system, see Robert La Follette,
                            "The Adoption of the Australian Ballot in Indiana," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XXIV (June, 1928), 105–20.
               
                     and racial bias—he attempted to limit both
                    "alien" influence at the polls and black suffrage—Dunn, working behind
                    the scenes, did more than anyone, including elected officials, to reduce fraud and ensure honest
                    elections in Indiana during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
            The political mastermind behind the Hoosier state's election reform was born on April 12,
                    1855, in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Indiana. Six years later, Dunn and his family—father Jacob Piatt Dunn, Sr.,
                    mother Harriet L. (Tate) Dunn, and four siblings—moved to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The senior Dunn, a member of 
                        Indianapolis
                    's Meridian Street Methodist Church, instilled in his children the
                    church's loathing for alcohol and may have stimulated his namesake's zeal for
                    reform. On April 2, 1872, Dunn and his siblings signed an agreement among themselves to abstain from
                    drinking or using "as a beverage any intoxicating liquors either distilled or fermented and
                    for the faithful maintenance of this obligation relying for aid on Divine Providence we pledge to
                    each other our word and honor."7
            
            In 1874 Dunn graduated from Earlham College, and two years later he received a University of 
                        Michigan
                     law degree. After returning to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , he continued studying law with the firm of McDonald and 
                        Butler
                    . The rigors of law, however, were no match for the lure of sudden wealth. Like his
                    father, who had left his home town of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Indiana, for 
                        California
                     during the 1849 gold rush, Dunn headed west to seek his fortune. In 1879 Dunn and his
                    brothers left Indiana for 
                        Colorado
                     to look after their father's stake in some silver mines and to attempt some
                    prospecting themselves. The junior Dunn failed to strike it rich, but his time in 
                        Colorado
                     was well spent. While in the western state Dunn embarked on a career fated to sustain
                    him throughout his life: journalism. He tried his writing skill as a reporter, contributing articles
                    to such newspapers as the 
                        Denver
                    
                    Republican, 
                        Denver
                    
                    Tribune, Leadville Chronicle, Maysville Democrat, and 
                        Denver
                    
                    Rocky Mountain News.
            Dunn returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1884 and four years later became head of the Democratic State Central
                    Committee's literary bureau. This was the beginning of his long career as a
                    "political man of letters" who earned his living as "a professional
                        Democrat."8 Dunn was elected state librarian by the legislature in
                    1889 and 1891, served on the Indiana Public Library Commission for twenty 
                  
                     7 Jacob Piatt Dunn Papers (Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). Dunn remained a highly religious man throughout his life. In 1914 he
                            published an essay on "The Passing of Darwinism." The piece attacked
                            Charles Darwin's evolution theory as "the most tremendous air-bubble of
                            all the ages." He confidently stated that Darwin's theories on natural
                            selection "stand today seriously discredited in the biological world."
                            Dunn, The Unknown God and Other Orthodox Essays (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914), 98, 109.
                  
                     8 Lana Ruegamer, "History, Politics, and the Active Life:
                            Jacob Piatt Dunn, Progressive Historian," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, LXXXI (September, 1985), 272.
               
                    
                    
                  JACOB PIATT DUNN, JR.
                  Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                     years, and was 
                        Indianapolis city
                     controller for two terms (1904–1906 and 1914–1916). Even while
                    serving in these posts, Dunn continued to contribute to newspapers. He wrote and served as editor
                    for a time at the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, and later produced articles for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star, and 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Times. In 1902 he made a failed attempt at national office when he ran against
                    Republican incumbent Jesse Overstreet in the race to represent Indiana's Seventh
                    Congressional District.
            Political animal though he was, Dunn wrote more than partisan journalism. Described by a fellow
                    Indiana historian as possessing "a versatile mind and a facile pen,"9 Dunn combined his abiding interest in history and his western experiences to produce Massacres of the Mountains: History of the Indian Wars of the Far West (1886),
                    which received a glowing review from a 
                        New York
                     politiciadamateur historian named Theodore Roosevelt.10 In 1886
                    Dunn also helped reorganize what had been a dying Indiana Historical Society, an institution he
                    served as recording secretary until his death in 1924. Other historical publications flowed from
                    Dunn's pen, including Indiana: A Redemption from Slavery (1888), Documents Relating to the French Settlements on the 
                            Wabash
                        
                (1894), The Mission to the Ouabache (1902), the two-volume
                        Greater Zndianapolis (1910), and his five-volume state history, Zndiana and Zndi-anans (19191.
            A lifelong Democratic party regular, Dunn merged his political and historical interests throughout
                    his career. His daughter Caroline Dunn noted that her father, who possessed "an inquiring
                    and reasoning type of mind," was fascinated with politics. Much of his writing, she said,
                    was "political or politico-economical."11 In an article titled
                    "Duty of the State to its History," which appeared in the Zndiana
                        Magazine of History, Dunn set out his historical philosophy. He agreed with the Roman
                    historian Tacitus that the "chief use of history is to promote good government."
                    Dunn noted that the democracy of his own day was a far cry from the absolute monarchy of
                    Tacitus's time. He theorized: 
                        History in our times is the record of progress in civilization and government. It is the
                            record of the experience of the state, and a state should profit by its experience just
                                
                        
                           9 James A. Woodburn, The Indiana Historical
                                        Society: A Hundred Years (
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , 1933), 24.
                        
                           10 In a letter to Dunn, Roosevelt informed the Indiana
                                    historian that in re-reading Dunn's "admirable book, I have been
                                    struck with its absolute fairness and incisive truthfulness that I can not forebear
                                    writing to express my appreciation." The future president went on to write
                                    that Dunn's work would serve "as one of our standards."
                                    Theodore Roosevelt to Jacob Piatt Dunn, April 22, 1888, Dunn Papers (Indiana
                                    Historical Society, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    ).
                        
                           11 Caroline Dunn, Jacob Piatt Dunn: His Miami
                                        Language Studies and Indian Manuscript Collection (Prehistory Research
                                    Series, Vol. 1, no. 2; 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , 1937), 32–35. Caroline Dunn also noted that her
                                    father's great "intellectual curiosity" marked him for
                                    life as "one of those people who are always reaching for a dictionary or
                                    encyclopedia, trying to identify a new flower or mushroom specimen, or running down
                                    some historical item!" Ibid., 34–35.
                     
                             as an individual does. But there is this difference: An
                            individual carries the memory of his experience with him, while the governing powers of a
                            state are frequently changed, and the experience of one generation is lost to following
                            ones, unless it be recorded in some permanent way.
                     Dunn warned government officials that their actions in office—both good and
                    bad—would be recorded for posterity. He also stressed the importance for future
                    generations to know about the past "in order to hand down the goodly heritage of
                    civilization and government that comes to their hands."12
            
            The Hoosier historian stood by his convictions in practice as well as in theory by becoming actively
                    involved in a number of reform issues he believed were necessary for good government. To Dunn the
                    successful passage of reform measures would not necessarily turn sinners into saints but could
                    "prevent them from reaping the fruits of dishonesty." He reasoned that the best
                    way to stop suspected evil was "to take away, as far as possible, the motive for
                    wrong-doing." Once men understood that they could violate the law at will, Dunn warned,
                    "you will have as many varieties of violation as you have men to deal with." The
                    public, he said, first had to be convinced of "the nature of evil to be remedied."
                    Once that was accomplished, officials could convince the voters to utilize a "rational
                    remedy." Dunn used a folksy example to illustrate this idea, noting that a doctor may know
                    how to treat rheumatism but he could not make any progress if a patient "thinks he can cure
                    it by carrying a buckeye in his pocket."13
            
            Dunn's reforming zeal seemed to be in line with the Progressive Era's faith in
                    having the right laws, enforced by the right men, producing the right results; but there was some
                        difference.14 Dunn mixed his reforming spirit with a healthy dose of
                    Democratic party politics. It is true that Dunn shared many of the same values as other midwestern
                    Progressives: a faith in majority government; a firm belief that people should control their
                    government, both before and after elections; and a conviction that citizens had an obligation to
                    participate in forming their government.15 Dunn, however, reveled in the
                    give-and-take of front-line politics and used his considerable writing skills for the Democratic
                    party. Although some of his 
                  
                     12 Jacob Piatt Dunn, "Duty of the State to Its
                            History," Indiana Magazine of History, VI (December, 1910),
                            137–38.
                  
                     13 Dunn, The New Tax Law of Indiana and the Science of
                                Taxation (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1892), 35–36; The Omitted Paper: Municipal Financial
                                Pressure, An Address before the Second Annual Conference on Taxation in Indiana by J. P.
                                Dunn, City Controller of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914), 1; and The Real Trouble with the Indiana Tax Law: An
                                Address by J. P. Dunn, City Controller of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , at the 
                                    Bloomington
                                 Tax Conference, February 5 and 6, 1914 (n.p., 1914), B.
                  
                     14 Richard Hofstadter, The Age of Reform: From Bryan to
                                F.D.R. (
                                New York
                            , 1955), 203.
                  
                     15 Russel B. Nye, Midwestern Progressive Politics: A
                                Historical Study of lts Origins and Deuelopment, 1870–1958
                                    (
                        East Lansing, Mich.
                     , 1959), 186.
               
                     Democratic friends considered him a
                    Mugwump—independent in his political beliefs—Dunn pointed out that all of his
                    Republican friends "consider me a hide-bound Democrat; and I freely confess that I have a
                    Democratic bias." He had this bias because he believed in "Democratic principles,
                    and I know that they can be attained only through having Democrats in office."16
            
            Dunn's philosophy was reflected in the reform measures he championed and which he believed
                    helped to further Democratic party interests. But in advocating the party's interests, Dunn
                    kept intact his strong belief in the power of good government. When one Democratic official wrote to
                    the Sentinel complaining that the newspaper was being too hard on his party, Dunn
                    lectured his critic like a teacher lambasting a wayward student. He said:
                        The worst enemy to any party is the man elected to office who violates the party pledges and
                            brings on the party the disgrace and humiliation of obtaining goods under false pretenses.
                            The betrayed party ought to be the first to demand his punishment. The people are interested
                            in good government more than in party success, and if a party wants success it must give the
                            people good government. There is nothing to be gained by attempting to whitewash guilty or
                            incompetent officials. The people are not fools. The democratic party in Indiana never
                            prospered as it has since it inaugurated the policy of punishing its own rascals.17
                  
                    
            
            Dunn combined this advocacy of honest government with a tenacious personality, which he displayed
                    both in rooting out obscure historical facts and in arguing policy matters in the hurly-burly world
                    of Hoosier politics. Fellow Democrat Samuel Ralston recalled upon his friend's death that
                    Dunn had been steadfast in believing he could accomplish any task he set for himself. "The
                    idea of his having to surrender to the will of any man & was to him apparently a
                    preposterous thought," Ralston observed.18 This 
                  
                     16 Dunn, "Why is a Democrat?" (Speech before the
                            Democratic Business Men's Meeting at the Denison Hotel, September 26, 1913), 3.
                  
                     17 Editorial, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, May 24, 1894.
                  
                     18 "Jacob Dunn Funeral to be Held Monday," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 7, 1924. Dunn's dogged determination to reach any goal
                            he set for himself also manifested itself in his hands-on approach to conducting historical
                            research. Karl Detzer, who grew up in 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, during the turn of the century, knew the historian as a friend of his
                            mother's. Detzer remembered Dunn as a "gentle, hulking, pipesmoking,
                            seemingly very old man & who strained tremendously interesting conversation through
                            a mustache of heroic proportions." The two often explored the area for historical
                            artifacts and it was through Dunn that Detzer learned that history did not merely consist of
                            facts printed in books; instead, "it was a swamp where your feet sank into deep
                            Indiana muck; or a sandbar across a creek; or a trail winding through willow thickets to
                            what looked like an ordinary low hump of earth; or a faint, narrow path zigzagging up to a
                            high point where, after you got your breath, you saw down below, not just the prosperous new
                            red barns with their Mail Pouch Tobacco signs, but the glorious past that helped erect
                            them." Karl Detzer, Myself When Young (
                                New York
                            , 1968), 9. Dunn's daughter Caroline also recalled her
                            father's thoroughness when it came to research. "We used to laugh at
                            Father," she said. "He was forever rushing around trying to see some old 
                                Indianapolis
                             person before he died in order to get his recollections of early
                            days." "Meticulous and Insatiable, He Preserved a Proud Era of the
                            Past," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 20, 1954.
               
                    
                    
                  SUPPORTERS DISPLAY
                            A CAMPAIGN SLOGAN
                            FOR INDIANA'S BENJAMIN
                                HARRISON DURING
                            THE 1888 PRESIDENTIAL, CAMPAIGN
                  
                  Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Neg. no. C3054.
               
                     attitude served Dunn well in his lifelong fight to secure good
                    government for his native state.
            One of the first instances in which Dunn had a chance to put his reforming instinct to the test
                    followed the 1888 presidential election. In that contest, Hoosier Benjamin Harrison was the
                    standard-bearer for the Republican ticket, opposing the reelection bid of President Grover
                    Cleveland. As the home state of a presidential candidate, Indiana played a prominent (if negative,
                    in Dunn's opinion) role as a swing state in this and many other nineteenth-century
                    campaigns. As a key state for both parties in the election, Indiana had been reduced to a
                    "pitiable condition of political corruption & and both the great parties had been
                    exhausting the resources of political depravity to carry it."19
            
            One of these depravities was a reliance on people known as "floaters," voters with
                    no fixed party loyalty who sold their franchise to the highest bidder, be it Democrat or Republican.
                    The number of floating votes in Indiana was estimated to have been approximately ten thousand in the
                    1880 election but as high as twenty thousand in 1888.20 The state's lax
                    election laws, which had political parties, not election officials, printing and furnishing ballots
                    to voters, exacerbated the problem. The only state law regarding ballots required that they be
                    printed on plain white paper three inches wide.21
            
            The practice of allowing political organizations to furnish ballots, a common one throughout the
                    country during the 1880s, made it easy to bribe a floater (who could be bought for as little as two
                    dollars and as much as twenty dollars in tight campaigns),22 and also ensured
                    that once a floater was bought by one party, he would be unable to vote for the other. Workers for
                    political parties, according to Eldon Cobb Evans's history of the Australian voting system
                    in the 
                        United States
                     were "permitted to have full view of the voter's ticket from the time
                    it was given him until it was dropped in the ballot box."23
            
            
               
                  19 Jacob Piatt Dunn, Greater 
                                Indianapolis
                            : The History, the Industries, the Institutions, and the People of a City of
                            Homes (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1910), I, 292.
               
                  20 Matthew Josephson, The Politicos,
                        1865–1896 (
                            New York
                        , 1938), 430. Indiana University professor Richard H. Dabney wrote a letter to The Nation reporting that the floating vote in Indiana was as high as thirty
                        thousand. He told of one 
                            Bloomington
                         resident who attempted to buy butter on election day but who was informed by a
                        storekeeper that none was available—it had all been bought the day before to
                        "butter sandwiches for floaters—for it would seem that even the Hoosier
                        floater cannot live by free whiskey alone." Correspondence, The
                        Nation, November 22, 1888.
               
                  21 Anna Marie Sander, "A Review of the Election Laws in the State
                        of Indiana From 1787 to 1890 (Master's thesis, Butler University, 1933), 31.
               
                  22 Josephson, The Politicos, 432.
               
                  23 Evans, A History of the Australian Ballot System, 11.
                        Nineteenth-century elections were often a popular spectator sport with wide community
                        involvement. Speeches and rallies drew thousands of spectators, and the parties produced reams
                        of literature touting their candidates. Jonathan P. Dolliver of 
                            Iowa
                         spoke for many
            
            
            
               A SLOGAN BALL USED
                        BY BENJAMIN HARRISON'S SUPPORTERS
                        IN
                        THE 1888 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
               
               Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                         Neg. no. C2777.
            
            
            Indiana party workers went to unusual lengths to capture the floating vote. "It was no
                    unusual incident & to corral what was known as the floating vote, fill it full of redeye,
                    lock it up the night before the election and march it to the polls early the next morning,"
                    noted Marshall, a veteran poll watcher. The future governor knew one Republican who kept a floater
                    in his room all night to guarantee that he voted the GOP ticket the next day. An enterprising
                    Democrat, however, set fire to a nearby woodshed and cried out that the Republican's store
                    was on fire. When his opponent ran off to make sure his business was safe, Marshall said,
                    "the Democrats stole his chattel."24
            
            Attempts by both parties to capture the floating vote played a key role in the 1888 presidential
                    contest in Indiana. Despite Harrison's favorite son status, the state was still up for
                    grabs with both sides maneuvering desperately to win. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal reported in a November 2, 1888, editorial that it was the floating vote
                    "that the machinery and work of the contending parties are designed to influence &
                    and nobody but a ninny-hammer would dream of anything else."25 Walter
                    Q. Gresham, who had battled Harrison for the Republican presidential nomination, was told by 
                        Chicago
                     attorney Robert T. Lincoln that W. H. H. Miller, Harrison's law partner, and
                    Harrison's son Russell, had visited him and asked for money to use for bribing Indiana
                    voters. "The purchase of votes," Gresham wrote Noble Butler, "is carried
                    on by both parties with little effort at concealment. If the thing goes on unchecked a catastrophe
                    is inevitable. What is to become of us?"26
            
            With 
                        Cleveland
                     and Harrison running neck and neck, the Republican campaign in Indiana and throughout
                    the country was rocked by the issuance of the infamous "blocks of five" letter
                    from William Dudley, a Hoosier Civil War veteran who was then serving as GOP national committee
                    treasurer. In the letter, which was sent to Indiana Republican county chairmen, Dudley warned that
                    "only boodle and fraudulent votes and false counting of returns can beat us in the State
                    [Indiana]." To counter this threat, he advised GOP workers to find out which Democrats at
                    the polls were responsible for bribing voters and to steer committed Democratic supporters to them,
                    thereby exhausting the opposition's cash stockpile. The most damaging part of the letter,
                    however, was contained in a sentence that became synonymous with political corruption. Dudley
                    advised: 
                  when he noted: "The man who, having the right to vote, is too lazy or too
                            high-toned to mingle with his fellow citizens at the polls is the merest ape and echo of a
                            citizen." Quoted in Lewis L. Gould, Reform and Regulation: American
                                Politics, 1900–1916 (
                                New York
                            , 1978), 3–4.
                  
                     24 Thomas R. Marshall. Recollections of Thomas R.
                                Marshall. Vice-President and Hoosier Philosopher: A Hoosier Salad (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1925), 139–40.
                  
                     25 Editorial, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, November 2, 1888.
                  
                     26 Charles W. Calhoun, Gilded Age Cato: The Life of
                                Walter Q. Gresham (
                        Lexington,
                                    Ky.
                     , 1988),
                        103–104.
               
                     "Divide the floaters into blocks of five, and put a
                    trusted man, with necessary funds, in charge of these five, and make them responsible that none get
                        away."27
            
            This political dynamite managed to find its was to the opposite camp, albeit with a little help. A
                    Democratic mail clerk on the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad, suspicious about the large amount of mail being passed from COP headquarters
                    to Indiana Republicans, opened one of the letters, recognized its value to his party, and passed the
                    damaging contents on to the Indiana Democratic State Central Committee chairman. The letter was
                    printed in the Sentinel, a Democratic party organ, on October 31, 1888, under
                    banner headlines reading "The Plot To Buy Indiana." Although an indignant Dudley
                    and other top Republicans declared that the letter was a forgery, its contents received nationwide
                    attention. But the letter's revelations came too late to derail Harrison's
                    campaign. The Hoosier Republican managed to eke out a 2,300 vote plurality in Indiana. 
                        Cleveland
                     won the nationwide popular vote, but Harrison handily captured the Electoral College
                    (233–168) and became president.28
            
            After the election Harrison seemed blissfully unaware that sleazy political shenanigans might have
                    played a role in his election. He told Senator Matt Quay of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , GOP national chairman, that "
                        Providence
                     has given us victory." Quay, a veteran politico who considered the new
                    president a "political tenderfoot" was not moved by Harrison's oratory.
                    He later exclaimed to a 
                        Philadelphia
                     journalist, "Think of the man! He ought to know that 
                        Providence
                     hadn't a damn thing to do with it." Harrison, Quay said,
                    "would never know how close a number of men were compelled to approach the gates of the
                    penitentiary to make him President."29
            
            
               
                  27 "The Plot to Buy Indiana," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, October 31, 1888.
               
                  28 The specific role of vote fraud in Harrison's election and the
                        general atmosphere of ballot box corruption throughout the Gilded Age have been subject to much
                        scholarly debate over the years. Corruption, according to Eugene Holloway Rose-boom, was the
                        "deciding factor" in Harrison's Indiana win. Allan Nevins, in his
                        biography of Grover Cleveland, blamed the incumbent's defeat on bribery in Indiana and 
                            New York
                        . H. Wayne Morgan, however, claimed that both Democrats and Republicans used bribes
                        to sway voters in the election and "probably canceled each other's
                        efforts." For further discussion on the influence of vote buying in the 1888 election,
                        see R. C. Buley, "The Campaign of 1888 in Indiana," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, X (June, 1914), 30–53; Richard Jensen, The
                            Winning of the Midwest: Social and Political Conflict, 1888–1896 (
                            Chicago
                        , 1971), 27–29; H. Wayne Morgan, From Hayes to McKinley:
                            National Party Politics, 1877–1896 (
                     Syracuse, N.Y.
                  , 1969),
                        310–12; John E. McDaniel, Jr., "The Presidential Election of 1888"
                        (Ph.D. dissertation, The University of 
                            Texas
                         at 
                            Austin
                        , 1970), 195; Allan Nevins, Grover Cleueland: A Study in Courage (
                            New York
                        , 1932), 437; and Eugene H. Roseboom, A History of Presidential
                            Elections (
                            New York
                        , 1957), 282–83. For a comprehensive review of election fraud during this
                        time, see Peter H. Argersinger, "New Perspectives on Election Fraud in the Gilded
                        Age," Political Science Quarterly, C (Winter, 1985–1986),
                        669–87.
               
                  29 James A. Kehl, Boss Rule in the Gilded Age: Matt Quay of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                   (
                            Pittsburgh
                        , 1981), 116–17. Harrison, along with other nineteenth-century
                        politicians, possessed what Robert H. Wiebe has called a "segmented morality,"
                        which
            
            
            
               FRONT COVER
                        OF
                        FRANK LESLIE'S ILLUSTRATED WEEKLY NEWSPAPER
                  
                        FOR
                        THE WEEK ENDED NOVEMBER 17, 1888, PICTURING
                        THE CELEBRATION OUTSIDE BENJAMIN HARRISON'S INDIANAPOLIS HOME UPON HIS ELECTION
                        AS PRESIDENT
               
               Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
            
            With charges of bribery and fraud still echoing across Indiana following the election, Dunn, at the
                    time in charge of literary work for the Democratic State Central Committee and editor of the Sentinel, saw in the furor over the Dudley letter an opportunity to "stop
                    the atrocious corruption in Indiana elections" by supporting the establishment of a secret
                    ballot based on a method developed in 
                        Australia
                     in the 1850s.30
            
            Wanting to see the Australian system introduced in Indiana, Dunn called on 
                        Indianapolis
                     labor leader Lafayette P. Custer, the only man he said he could find in the city able
                    to write intelligently on the election reform issue. According to Custer, the Australian system
                    called for six main features: printing and distributing the ballots at public expense; enabling a
                    voter to mark his ballot in secrecy; regulating the methods used to select candidates; defining
                    bribery; defining "undue influence"; and limiting the amount a candidate could
                    spend on an election. The floating vote, the labor leader predicted, would continue to increase each
                    year under the existing system since it allowed "the landlord, money lord and corporate
                    wealth generally to levy tribute on the masses." If some way was not found to limit the
                    influence of political managers, Custer continued, government would become "a
                        farce."31
            
            Custer's article, with Dunn's editorial endorsement, appeared in the Sentinel on November 19, 1888. The newspaper continued to beat the drum for election
                    reform as the 1889 legislative session neared. The reform campaign had an immediate impact. In a
                    manner that foreshadowed his work on the "Marshall Constitution," Dunn put his
                    imprint on the Australian ballot issue. After meeting with outgoing Democratic Governor Isaac P.
                    Gray and with several legislators, the historian wrote an Australian ballot bill for General
                    Assembly consideration.32
            
            The 1889 attempt at election reform benefitted from the fact that the Democrats controlled both the
                    House and Senate. But even newly elected Republican Governor Alvin P. Hovey called for action to
                    reform the state's corrupt election process. In his inaugural address to the lawmakers on
                    January 14, 1889, Hovey admitted that the ballot in Indiana (and in many other states) had been
                    corrupted. He blamed both political parties for the problem, noting that the situation was so bad
                    that "in the eyes of many respectable men, it [bribing voters] seems to be no longer
                    regarded as a crime." 
                  would enable a knowledgeable politician like Harrison to disregard the "unsavory
                            tactics" that won him the presidency and still allow him to walk "in the
                            light as God's humble servant." See Robert H. Wiebe, The
                                Search for Order, 1877–1920 (
                                New York
                            , 1967), 40.
                  
                     30 Jacob Piatt Dunn, Indiana and Indianans: A History of
                                dboriginal and Territorial Indiana and the Century of Statehood (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), II, 744.
                  
                     31 "The Australian System," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, November 19, 1888.
                  
                     32 Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, II, 746.
               
                     The governor recommended to the legislators that the
                    state's election laws be revised and even offered a proposal whereby every elected official
                    would be required in his oath of office to swear that he had "not directly or indirectly
                    given, promised, advanced, or paid any money, or given or conveyed any other article of value to any
                    person or persons to aid, assist, or procure his election or appointment."33
            
            Even with the GOP governor's plea for change, Dunn once again had trouble convincing his
                    fellow Democrats to support the reform measure. He recalled that one longtime party official
                    "insisted to the last that he preferred the old system, ‘so that he could take a
                    floater back of the schoolhouse, and mark his ticket for him."34 What
                    eventually emerged from the General Assembly was one of the first secret ballot laws ever adopted in
                    the nation, and one that became a model for other states. Dunn said that the law was a modified
                    version of a proposal made by a 
                        New York
                     reform group. One merit of Indiana's version, according to Dunn, was that each
                    party could check on the other, since Democrats and Republicans had equal representation on election
                    boards. Under the new system the state, no longer the political parties, furnished the ballots.
                    Unlike other versions of the Australian system, however, the Indiana law reflected the strong party
                    loyalties in the state. It featured "party-column" ballots, which listed the
                    nominees with their political party affiliations and gave voters the opportunity to mark a
                    straight-ticket vote.35
            
            As he admitted after the bill's passage, Dunn pushed the Australian ballot system for
                    politically motivated reasons. Honest elections were needed, he argued, because his party could not
                    compete with Republicans’ "election rascality" since the Democratic
                    party, because of its support for tariff reduction, faced continued opposition from "the
                    capitalist element& and it [business] furnished the funds [to the GOPI for vote
                        buying."36 Also, since the Republicans controlled the federal court
                    system through their party's patronage power, court officials were more inclined to
                    "punish Democratic scoundrels and release Republican scoundrels."37 With those facts in mind, Dunn reasoned that the best hope for Democratic success at the
                    polls was to have "intelligent and honest voters, and not & ignorant and corrupt
                    ones." For the Democratic party to flourish, 
                  
                     33 Indiana, House Journal (1889), 63, 65.
                  
                     34 Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, 11, 746.
                  
                     35 Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The
                                Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth, 1880–1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 30.
                  
                     36 Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, 11, 745. Democratic
                            reform attempts in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries often were marked by
                            "a healthy dose of self-interest," according to David Sarasohn,
                            particularly when they involved the party's "unvarying scarcity of
                            funds." See David Sarasohn, The Party of Reform: Democrats in the
                                Progressive Era (Jackson, Miss., 1989), xi-xii.
                  
                     37 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , I, 307.
               
                     said Dunn, "honesty is the best policy from political
                    as well as other considerations."38
            
            Establishing the modified Australian ballot system in Indiana—and in the thirty-seven
                    other states that passed similar laws by 1892––failed to stop completely
                    corruption at the ballot box, a fact its proponents freely admitted. It did, however, provide an
                    essential first step in helping secure honest elections for Indiana. In a January 2, 1890,
                    editorial, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News lavished praise on the Democrats for what it called a "magnificent
                    reform." Referring to the Hoosier state's previous reputation for notoriously
                    corrupt elections, the News proclaimed that "nothing of late years has
                    done more for the State's good name than the fact of this law."39 Voters could now mark their election choices in total privacy, eliminating the
                    "intimidating party aura" that had existed under the old voting system.40
            
            To Dunn, however, the Australian ballot system constituted an incomplete reform. Along with the new
                    voting arrangement, the legislature had passed a bribery law that Dunn claimed made the 1890, 1892,
                    and 1894 elections "the cleanest that had been known in Indiana for years." The
                    bribery law's effectiveness was emasculated by subsequent Republican legislation, according
                    to Dunn. Consequently, although the Australian system insured orderly elections without voter
                    intimidation, he said it fell short of eliminating vote buying. What was needed, Dunn argued, were
                    voting laws "based on an educational qualification, and all suffrage conditioned on payment
                    of taxes."41
            
            Dunn's hopes for continued betterment of Indiana's ballot—and success
                    for the Democratic party come election time—endured a long fallow period. After the end
                    of Claude Matthew's term in 1897, twelve years passed before a Democrat again sat in the
                    governor's chair. In 1909, however, the Democrat's stay in the political
                    wilderness ended as a man Dunn termed the "ablest" Democratic governor since
                    Thomas Hendricks took over the governorship.42 In Thomas Riley Marshall, Dunn
                    found a kindred spirit in his battle to secure an honest and intelligent electorate.
            A 
                        Columbia City
                     lawyer, Marshall was an unlikely candidate for Indiana's highest office.
                    Although he had been involved in Democratic party activities for most of his life and had even
                    formed a Democratic Club while a student at Wabash College, Marshall's 
                  
                     38 "Suggests a Way to Amend Constitution," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 21, 1908.
                  
                     39 Editorial, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 2, 1890.
                  
                     40 Jerrold G. Rusk, "The Effect of the Australian Ballot
                            Reform on Split Ticket Voting: 1876–1908," American
                                Political Science Reuiew, LXIV (December, 1970), 1221.
                  
                     41 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , I, 307–308.
                  
                     42 Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, II, 769.
               
                    
                    
                  INDIANA GOVERNOR THOMAS R. MARSHALL
                            Of COLUMBIA CITY
                  
                  Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                only other experience in seeking public office had been his failed bid for prosecuting
                    attorney. After losing his initial try at elective office, Marshall returned to his law practice in 
                        Columbia City
                     and continued to be active in the Democratic party. He served two years as the Twelfth
                    District Democratic Committee chairman and was even asked to run for Congress in 1906, an offer he
                    declined. When asked if he might someday consider another campaign for elective office, Marshall
                    said he doubted he ever would, unless that race happened to be for governor.43
            
            
               
                  43 Marshall, Recollections, 151
            
            
            The "Marshall for Governor" bandwagon started rolling in earnest in early fall,
                    1907. While Marshall and his wife were on vacation in northern 
                        Michigan
                    , longtime Indiana newspaper reporter and 
                        Washington
                     correspondent Louis Ludlow, Marshall's friend, became the first journalist to
                    put forward the 
                        Columbia City
                     attorney's name as a gubernatorial candidate. Ludlow's suggestion was
                    immediately picked up by newspapers throughout northern Indiana.44 In addition
                    to this editorial support, delegates to the Democratic state convention from the Twelfth District
                    pledged their votes on Marshall's behalf.
            The Democratic convention held March 25, 1908, at Tomlinson Hall in 
                        Indianapolis
                     displayed a party in disarray. Forces loyal to longtime Democratic boss Thomas Taggart,
                    Jr., lined up in support of his hand-picked gubernatorial candidate, Samuel Ralston. Meanwhile,
                    those opposing Taggart's control over the party touted the candidacy of L. Ert Slack.
                    Commenting on the intraparty divisions, Marshall noted that it was "a difficult thing to
                    find a man who was a Democrat—just a plain unadorned, undiluted, unterrified
                    Democrat." With the convention deadlocked after four ballots, Ralston—pressed by
                    his patron Taggart—announced that he was withdrawing from the race. With
                    Ralston's withdrawal, voters quickly switched to Marshall, and he received his
                    party's gubernatorial nomination on the subsequent ballot. The dark horse, as Marshall put
                    it, had transformed himself "from His Accidency to His Excellency."45
            
            With the Democratic party firmly united behind his candidacy, Marshall turned his efforts to
                    convincing Hoosiers that he was the best man for the job. He conducted a low-key campaign, telling
                    Indiana voters that he was the "candidate of no faction and candidate of no interest; that
                    I had no strings to me; no promises out; owed nobody anything except good will; that I had a
                    perfectly good practice at home; did not care whether I was elected or not; but if they were in
                    accord with Democratic principles I was soliciting their votes for the party and not for
                    myself." Marshall even claimed to have returned more than $7,000 in campaign
                    monies he received in the mail. Instead of using those funds, he borrowed $3,750 from 
                        Columbia City
                    's First National Bank to finance his gubernatorial effort, an amount he repaid
                    only after finishing his two subsequent terms as vice-president under Woodrow Wilson.46
            
            While Marshall's understated campaign style was proving to be effective with Hoosier voters,
                    Congressman James Watson, the Republican gubernatorial nominee, was having difficulties within 
                  
                     44 Louis Ludlow, From Cornfield to Press Gallery:
                                Adventures and Reminiscences of a Veteran Washington Correspondent (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1924), 396.
                  
                     45 Marshall, Recollections, 159–61.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid. 166–67, 169–70.
               
                     his own party. Governor J. Frank Hanly, a tireless advocate of
                    temperance, had managed to prod the Republican party into including in its platform a measure
                    calling for a county option law on the liquor question. With this pledge on the books, Hanly went
                    one step farther. Three weeks before the election he called a special General Assembly session that
                    ultimately passed the county option measure (Democrats had favored using the city, township, or ward
                    as the basis to decide the question of whether or not liquor should be allowed in an area).
            The Democratic candidate fiercely opposed Hanly's use of executive power. Speaking in 
                        Rockport
                     before the special session got underway, Marshall unwittingly foreshadowed attacks that
                    would later be leveled against him in his attempt at constitutional reform when he compared Hanly to
                    a dictator giving orders with no thought as to what the people might want. Such actions, said
                    Marshall, were a "violation of constitutional government, for under a constitutional
                    government the people themselves rule."47
            
            Watson also disputed the wisdom of Hanly's legislative posturing, but he had a more personal
                    stake in the matter. He blamed Hanly's insistence on obtaining the county option
                    law's passage before the campaign's finish as a major reason why he would go on to
                    lose the governor's race to Marshall. "When this was done," Watson
                    recalled in his memoirs, "it took my platform squarely out from under me and thus relieved
                    any Democrats who believed in county local option from the necessity of voting for me to get what
                    they wanted." The Republican congressman acknowledged that opposition from organized labor
                    also played a role in his defeat to Marshall by approximately fifteen thousand votes.48
            
            Even though he was governor during a time in American history when Progressives across the country
                    were advocating such liberal governmental changes as the initiative, referendum, and recall, along
                    with other measures to combat society's problems, Marshall nevertheless proved to be a
                    cautious reformer. He advocated clear and equal separation of powers among the legislative,
                    executive, and judicial branches of government. The governor's slow approach at reform was
                    highlighted in his opening message to the General Assembly on January 11, 1909, when he counseled
                    the 
                  
                     47 Keith S. Montgomery, "Thomas R. Marshall's
                            Victory in the Election of 1908," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            LIII (June, 1957), 159.
                  
                     48 James E. Watson, As I Knew Them: Memoirs of James E.
                                Watson (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1936), 208. Watson recalled that the experience of his mother's first
                            cousin, General Thomas M. Browne, GOP nominee for Indiana governor in 1872 who was beaten by
                            Democrat Thomas Hendricks, paralleled his own: "General Browne was defeated by
                            Governor Hendricks on the temperance question, and Thomas Marshall beat me on the same
                            issue. In remarking to Marshall on the matter one day, I said to him that I thought the
                            temperance issue was a mighty bad one for my family. Whereupon Marshall remarked:
                            ‘No Jim, your family is a damned bad family for the temperance
                            issue.’" Ibid., 19.
               
                     lawmakers to be cautious in enacting any new laws.
                    "Undigested legislation," Marshall warned, "must inevitably result in
                    evil to the body politic. Your record will be made not by the amount but by the character of the
                    work you do."49 The divided General Assembly (Democrats controlled the
                    House and Republicans the Senate) must have taken Marshall's advice to heart. Although the
                    governor had asked them to consider such measures as the direct election of 
                        United States
                     senators, improved railroad and insurance company regulation, and the creation of a
                    state board of accounts, only the last of these was enacted.
            Despite these legislative setbacks, Marshall seemed determined to keep clear the lines of authority
                    among the governmental branches. Speaking before fellow Democrats at the party's 1910
                    convention, he warned his audience about the dangers of one-man government. Even though such a
                    government might sometimes produce good laws, "in so doing, it will establish a precedent
                    whereby an evil-minded man may work intolerable wrong and overthrow our system."50 Marshall believed that the state's chief executive should not
                    "use his power, his prestige and his right of appointment to overawe or coerce the
                    legislative department of government."51
            
            On one issue, however, Marshall swept aside his usual political beliefs in favor of the same
                    domineering methods for which he had condemned his predecessor during the gubernatorial campaign.
                    The issue subjecting Marshall to an avalanche of condemnation from Republican opponents was one that
                    had bedeviled the state for a number of years: reform of the 1851 Indiana Constitution.
            The General Assembly had long debated ways to amend what had become an outdated document. These
                    attempts, however, met with repeated failures due to a complicated process for effecting
                    constitutional change. According to terms outlined in the 1851 Constitution, any amendment had to
                    pass through two consecutive legislative sessions before it could be considered by Hoosier voters.
            The cumbersome amendment process was highlighted in the early 1900s when a lawyers' group
                    attempted to revise a constitutional provision that admitted to the bar applicants whose only
                    qualification was possessing a good moral character. A bill authorizing the General Assembly to set
                    stricter qualifications for admission to the bar successfully passed two consecutive legislative
                    sessions (1897 and 1899) and was put on the ballot for voters to decide on at the November 6, 1900,
                    election. As a result of the election, in which the amendment received 240,031 votes in favor and
                    144,072 against, stricter standards were established.
            
               
                  49 Indiana, Senate Journal (1909), 107–108.
               
                  50 Marshall address to Democratic State Convention, April 27, 1910, Thomas
                        R. Marshall Papers (Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ).
               
                  51 Marshall, Recollections, 178.
            
            
            On an appeal from a Hoosier who failed to meet the tougher requirements, however, the Indiana Supreme
                    Court during its November, 1900, term ruled in the case In re Denny that although
                    the amendment received more yes than no votes, it had not passed because it had failed to receive a
                    majority of all the votes cast in the general election. Furthermore, since the amendment was neither
                    approved nor defeated, but was still pending a decision from the voters, the 1851 Constitution
                    stated that "no additional amendment or amendments could be proposed," which
                    effectively blocked any other attempt at constitutional reform.52
            
            The impasse was intolerable to a reformer like Dunn, who also saw a unique opportunity for enhancing
                    the Democratic party's success in future elections. In a speech before the Indiana
                    Democratic Club in December, 1908, he pointed out that in the ten-year period from 1894 to 1904,
                    other states had adopted 230 constitutional amendments while Indiana had failed to pass even one.
                    Dunn blamed the framers of the 1851 Constitution for tying "the hands of posterity too
                    tightly. They seemed to have the idea that wisdom would die with them." He regarded the
                    process for attaining constitutional amendments as a safety valve, which should be "so
                    adjusted as not to be a mere escape pipe for passing fancy or political prejudice, but at the same
                    time should not require so much force to move it as is liable to explode the boiler."53
            
            To relieve this potentially explosive situation, Dunn lent his expertise to the Marshall
                    administration by devising a novel—for Indiana and for the nation—approach to
                    constitutional reform. The first hints of what was to come appeared prior to a Democratic caucus the
                    night of February 13, 1911. Although what was to be discussed at the meeting was, theoretically, a
                    secret, the News reported that one of the issues to be considered was the
                    state's Constitution. The newspaper noted unconfirmed reports that "an entirely
                    new Constitution is to be proposed, another that certain phases of the document are to be gone over,
                    and still another to the effect that the caucus will be asked to consider ways for making easier the
                    method of amending the Constitution, if a way is found possible."54
            
            The News's sources were accurate; the next day Marshall announced that the
                    caucus had approved the idea of submitting an act to the General Assembly which would provide for an
                    entirely new 
                  
                     52 Charles Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana:
                                A Source Book of Constitutional Documents with Historical Introduction and Critical
                                Notes; Vol. I, 1780–1851 (Indiana Historical
                            Collections, Vol. I; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 338–39. See also John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana's Century Old Constitution (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1951), 17–18.
                  
                     53 "Suggests a Way to Amend Constitution," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 21, 1908.
                  
                     54 "Many Reports as to Purpose of Caucus," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 13, 1911.
               
                     Constitution, a method that had not been used successfully in
                    the 
                        United States
                     since the eighteenth century.55 Marshall rationalized such an
                    action on the grounds that the Declaration of Independence granted the people the right to change
                    the method and form of their government. The changes included in the new Constitution, Marshall
                    asserted, had been decided after consultations with a group of Indiana attorneys. One of those
                    lawyers, whom the governor failed to identify by name, advised him that if he studied the existing
                    Constitution, he could find a means "to accomplish what I felt should be accomplished, and
                    thus to get around the vexing question of whether there is a proposed amendment before the
                        people."56
            
            The attorney Marshall refused to name was Dunn, who outlined his role in the matter in his history of
                    the state, Indiana and Indianans. Dunn, who had praised Marshall's
                    previous course of noninterference in other departments of government, reversed himself on this
                    issue. He argued that the "radical action" of submitting a new Constitution to be
                    acted on by the General Assembly was called for in order to cut the "Gordian knot"
                    blocking constitutional reform. "The plan struck me as feasible, and he [Marshall] asked me
                    to formulate the changes which I considered desirable, which I did," Dunn recalled.57
            
            Direct action in the legislative process was, of course, nothing new to this political historian who
                    had served a similar role in the Australian ballot issue. To Dunn, in fact, a historian had an
                    obligation to act when he saw a problem. "If you want intelligent legislation," he
                    reasoned, "you must first find out just what is wrong, and then devise the remedy for that
                        wrong."58
            
            In drafting his constitutional proposal, Dunn depended upon his historical knowledge and not on any
                    detailed correspondence with Marshall. Caroline Dunn has suggested that since both her father and
                    Marshall lived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and were longtime Democrats, it would have been more likely for them to discuss an
                    issue such as reforming the Constitution in person rather than through correspondence.59 She has also noted that during the time when Marshall served as governor, her family
                    and the Marshalls lived just a few blocks from one another on 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Street (the Dunns' home was at 915 N. Pennsylvania, while the Marshalls lived
                    at 1219 N. Pennsylvania).60
            
            The legal right to produce a new Constitution for the legislature to consider, claimed Jacob Piatt
                    Dunn, rested upon the original document's 
                  
                     55 Robert Luce, Legislative Principles: The History and
                                Theory of Lawmaking by Representative Government (
                                Boston
                            , 1930), 140.
                  
                     56 "Explains Plan for New Constitution," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 14, 1911.
                  
                     57 Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, 11, 771.
                  
                     58 Dunn, "Duty of the State," 142–43.
                  
                     59 Caroline Dunn, interview with author, February 7, 1992.
                  
                     60 R. L. Polk Co., City Directory (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1911), 507, 1026.
               
                     statements that "the people have, at all times, an
                    indefeasible right to alter and reform their government," and that the state's
                    "legislative authority shall be vested in the General Assembly."61 Dunn pointed out that Indiana's 1816 Constitution contained no process for
                    amending the document. The only rationale for replacing it, besides the people's inherent
                    right to do so, was a provision it contained whereby every twelve years after the Constitution had
                    taken effect a vote would be taken to see if people were for or against calling a constitutional
                        convention.62
            
            Such a vote was never taken, and a Constitutional convention was only called after the collapse of
                    Indiana's internal improvement system in 1850. When considering the amendment process for
                    the new Constitution, convention delegates realized that the session neglected to meet the
                    procedures outlined for such matters in the 1816 Constitution. With that in mind, Dunn argued that
                    the delegates' aim was not to "limit the right of revision, but to extend it by
                    the system of special amendment." He went on to say: 
                        It is evident that the provisions for amendment & are not intended as any limitation
                            on the right of the people to adopt a new constitution whenever they so desire &.
                            The only restriction is that if they desire to proceed by special amendment & they
                            must follow strictly the method there provided, in order to make the amendment valid.63
                  
                    
            
            To those who charged that the "new" Constitution was no more than a series of
                    amendments to the existing Constitution which fell under the amending procedures outlined in the
                    1851 document, Dunn answered that their understanding of "ordinary and legal meanings of
                    terms" was incomplete. He gave as an example the changing of a will. If someone had made
                    and then rewritten a will, "it would be a new will; but if the changes were added as a
                    codicil it would be an amended will." The proposed Constitution, he argued, had to be
                    considered as a new one "from the standpoint of the diversity of its effects."64
            
            The document that Dunn produced and Marshall then provided to the General Assembly for debate
                    included such earlier reform attempts as granting the legislature the power to fix requirements for
                    admission to the bar and increasing the size of the Indiana 
                  
                     61 Jacob Piatt Dunn, The Proposed Constitution of
                            Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1911), 4.
                  
                     62
                            Ibid., 9. The 1816 Constitution states in Article VIII, Section 1, that:
                            "Every twelfth year, after this constitution shall have taken effect, at the
                            general election held for Governor there shall be a poll opened, in which the qualified
                            Electors of the State shall express, by vote, whether they are in favour of calling a
                            convention, or not, and if there should be a majority of all the votes given at such
                            election & the Governor shall inform the next General Assembly thereof, whose duty
                            it shall be to provide, by law, for the election of the members to the convention."
                            See Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, I, 111–12.
                  
                     63 Dunn, The Proposed Constitution, 11.
                  
                     64
                            Ibid.,22.
               
                     Supreme Court from five justices to as many as eleven. Other
                    revisions included increasing the size of the Indiana House of Representatives to 130 members;
                    lengthening the General Assembly session to 100 days; giving the legislature the power to enact
                    workmen's compensation laws and measures for the initiative, referendum, and recall of all
                    elected officials except judges; requiring a three-fifths vote by the House and Senate to override a
                    governor's veto; giving the governor a line-item veto power on appropriation bills;
                    prohibiting salary increases for public officials during the term to which they were elected; easing
                    the amending process for the Constitution; and providing political parties the opportunity to
                    declare for or against constitutional amendments at their conventions and making such a decision a
                    part of their tickets to be acted on by voters.65
            
            For Dunn, however, the chief purpose of the new Constitution was "to secure honest
                    elections," without which, he argued, government would be "a sham and a
                        mockery."66 As with the Australian ballot measure, Dunn's
                    underlying reason for providing this honest electorate was simple: it could translate into election
                    success for Democrats. Dunn faithfully believed that, given a choice between the Democrat and
                    Republican program, an honest, intelligent voter could not help but vote for the Democrats. What
                    better way to ensure Democratic party success at the polls than to provide an environment in which
                    this type of voter could prosper? He even went so far as to charge that Republican opposition to the
                    new Constitution, which offered a "speedy and inexpensive" way to secure an honest
                    electorate, was based on the GOPs "knowledge that it will injure that party
                        politically."67
            
            Like many other Progressive Era reform proposals, however, Dunn's document was tainted by
                        nativism,68 especially in its voting eligibility requirements. The new
                    Constitution restricted voting rights to male citizens of the 
                        United States
                     more than twenty-one years of age who had resided in the state for twelve months, in a
                        
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., Addendum, 1–8. See also Phillips, Indiana
                                in Transition, 111. Although the new Constitution included a provision for the
                            initiative, referendum, and recall of public officials (exempting judges), the mainstays of
                            Progressive Era reform efforts, Marshall approved the placement of that clause in the
                            document with "no intention on my part that it should ever be used." He
                            used as an example someone approaching a set of railroad tracks. Even if the tracks were not
                            equipped with warning signals, a person in "sound mind would know there existed
                            some danger in crossing the tracks. According to the governor, the initiative, referendum,
                            and recall clause was put in the new Constitution "not for use but to sharply call
                            the attention of the Legislature to the fact that he was the representative of the people
                            and the representative of a special interest and that he better walk carefully."
                            Thomas R. Marshall to Theodore W. Noyes, May 17, 1913, Marshall Papers (Indiana State
                            Library).
                  
                     66 Dunn, "The Proposed Constitution of Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, VII (September, 1911), 100.
                  
                     67 Dunn, The Proposed Constitution, 26.
                  
                     68 Hofstadter, The Age of Reform, 178.
               
                     township for sixty days, and in a precinct for thirty days
                    preceding the election. (Under the existing Constitution, every male of foreign birth more than
                    twenty-one years of age who had declared his intention to become a 
                        United States
                     citizen and had resided in the state for six months, and in the country for one year,
                    was eligible to vote.) The revised Constitution also limited suffrage by insisting that voters pay
                    their poll tax the year of any election, and, after November 1, 1913, it stipulated that no Hoosiers
                    who could "not read in English or some other known tongue any section of the Constitution
                    of the State" could regster to vote.69
            
            Dunn offered a point-by-point defense of the restrictive voting eligibility requirements contained in
                    his document during a speech before the American Political Science Association's 1911
                    annual meeting. An educational test for suffrage was essential, he noted, because if illiterates
                    were permitted to vote, someone would have to mark the ballot for them, which eliminated the secret
                    ballot and could make vote buying easier. Also, a poll tax was needed because, according to Dunn, a
                    "large part of the class who sells their votes are included in the class who do not pay
                    their poll taxes."70
            
            As to the tightening of residential standards, Dunn pointed out that the 1851 Indiana Constitution
                    gave immigrants with six months residence in the state, and who had declared their intention to
                    become 
                        United States
                     citizens, the right to vote because the state wanted to encourage immigrants to settle
                    within its borders. In recent years, however, Dunn proclaimed that there appeared in Indiana
                    "a large class of immigrants who have no real intent to become citizens, but only to
                    accumulate enough money for comfortable living in their native countries." Since these
                    people were only 
                  
                     69 Dunn, The Proposed Constitution, Addendum, 2.
                            Limiting suffrage to educated citizens became a common proposal during the Progressive Era.
                            A. James Reich-ley claims that a number of Progressives shared the founders' belief
                            that "republican government would be unworkable without well-informed, independent
                            voters who cast their ballots for what is best for the nation as as a
                            whole"—a citizenship definition many immigrants did not fit. See A.
                            James Reichley, The Life of the Parties: A History of American Political
                                Parties (
                                New York
                            , 1992), 208–209. Also, the proposed Indiana Constitution's
                            limit on voting rights to those who could read and write paralleled a national movement to
                            require a literacy test for immigrants. First introduced in Congress in 1895, the literacy
                            measure made its way through both the House and Senate in 1897, 1913, 1915, and 1917. Vetoed
                            by Presidents Grover Cleveland, William Howard Taft, and Woodrow Wilson, the test was
                            enacted by Congress over Wilson's veto in 1917. The new law, however, as John
                            Higham has pointed out, "proved a fairly course sieve," as rising literacy
                            rates in Europe blunted its impact. See Roger Daniels, Coming to America: A
                                History of Immigration and Ethnicity in American Life (
                                New York
                            , 1990), 278; John Higham, Strangers in the Land: Patterns of
                                American Nativism, 1860–1925 (
                        New Brunswick, N.J.
                     ,
                            1955), 203; and Wiebe, The Search for Order, 210.
                  
                     70 Undated speech given to the American Political Science Association
                            annual meeting, December 27–30, 1911, Dunn Papers (Indiana State Library). 
                                Text
                             reprinted as "The Proposed Legislative Constitution of
                            Indiana," Proceedings of the American Political Science
                            Association in American Political Science Review, VI (1912),
                            Supplement, 43–52.
               
                     interested in making money, Dunn said, they were often glad to
                    sell their franchise for cash. "In fact," he added, "they are commonly
                    ‘Naturalized’ in blocks, by political parties that have already bargained for
                    their votes."71
            
            The dishonest elections resulting from this rampant bribery and vote selling were "sapping
                    the very life of the nation today," Dunn told the association members. Such Progressive
                    attempts to remedy governmental ills as the initiative, referendum, and recall; commission
                    government; and the short ballot were "only salves applied to the skin to cure a blood
                    disease," said Dunn. He believed that the only way to obtain good government was to ensure
                    honest elections. Dunn asked those assembled: 
                        What do direct primaries amount to, if the voters are bought? What are the initiative,
                            referendum, or recall if the appeal is to a debauched electorate? What is commission
                            government, if the commissioners can buy their elections? What difference whether a man
                            votes a long or short ballot, if his vote is sold? Of what avail to try to control the
                            "big business" of the country, so long as we allow it, by the supply of
                            campaign funds, to buy the election of men who will serve it? The first and greatest
                            requisite—the one without which all others amount to nothing—is the
                            purification of elections.72
                  
                    
            
            Marshall echoed Dunn's fears about "aliens" somehow besmirching the ballot
                    box's sanctity. Discussing the new Constitution document with a fellow Democrat, Marshall
                    said that after consulting others, he felt that it was "advisable to see if we could not
                    try to limit the suffrage in Indiana by a new Constitution."73 During a
                    June, 1911, speech before the Indiana Democratic Editorial Association in 
                        La Porte
                    , Indiana, Marshall reminded his audience that voting "was not an inalienable
                    right." The governor termed unrestricted suffrage as "one of the [most] dangerous
                    experiments in government." Marshall claimed that a great number of foreigners had come
                    into the state and, aided by unnamed "political manipulators," had managed to
                    pollute the ballot box's purity and threatened to menace American civilization.74
            
            Perhaps secretly agreeing with Dunn that "honest" elections could mean trouble for
                    them at the polls, the Republican response to the new Constitution was overwhelmingly hostile. GOP
                    leaders in both the Indiana House and Senate blasted the measure, calling it a "one-man
                    constitution" and claiming that Marshall was usurping the people's rights. Senator
                    William Wood of 
                        Lafayette
                     derided the fact that the measure was agreed upon at a party caucus and not by the
                    people, and he also argued that "(there is not a single member of this Legislature that was
                    selected for the purpose of 
                  
                     71
                            Ibid.
                  
                     72
                            Ibid.
                  
                     73 Thomas R. Marshall to Henry Barnhart, February 17, 1911, Thomas R.
                            Marshall Papers (Indiana State Archives, Commission on Public Records, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     74 "Governor Defends New Constitution," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 2, 1911.
               
                     framing a constitution." Representative Jesse Eschbach
                    of 
                        Warsaw
                    , House minority leader, called the governor's action
                    "contemptible" and claimed it marked "the last gasp of what promised to
                    be a period of Democratic power and prestige, a puerile attempt to bolster up fallen political power
                    and to conceal the failure and blundering of two years of Democratic supremacy."75
            
            Senator James Sexson of 
                        Owen County
                     went one step further than his GOP colleagues. On February 16, 1911, Sexson introduced
                    a Senate resolution appointing Marshall as a committee of one with the power to put the new
                    Constitution into effect without holding an election. The resolution also gave Marshall the power to
                    "revise the Lord's prayer, amend the Declaration of Independence, repeal the
                    Mosaic law, bring the thirty nine articles of faith down to date, abridge the sermon on the mount
                    and do all other things as will appear in his infinite wisdom and supreme interest in the welfare of
                    the people, to be fitting and proper." The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star reported to its readers that the "Democratic senators had nothing to
                    say after the resolution had been called out of order by Lieutenant Governor Frank J. Hall, but the
                    Republicans were still smiling broadly when they adjourned." Although his proposal failed
                    to pass, Sexson did get something for his efforts; pats on the back from amused GOP legislators.76
            
            The GOP assault on the new Constitution received daily coverage in the Star, which editorially
                    supported the Republican party. The newspaper constantly hammered away at the plan and its
                    architects, giving front-page coverage to attacks on Marshall from former GOP governors Winfield
                    Durbin and J. Frank Hanly, and it gave the same prominent space to a group of lawyers who viewed the
                    measure as unconstitutional.77 The Star, however, saved its
                    biggest broadsides against the plan for its editorial pages. Recalling Marshall's campaign
                    speeches in which the candidate claimed to be a strict constructionist as far as executive
                    authority, the newspaper asked why, in this instance, Marshall was turning his back on his stated
                    beliefs. Although the Star suggested the possibility that Marshall was using the
                    Constitution as a way to promote a run for the White House in 1912, it nevertheless concluded that
                    Marshall was "a man urged on by imperious circumstances to do that against which his whole
                    nature revolts. It must be hard for a sensitive man to do something that he feels instinctively is
                        wrong."78
            
            The Star hinted in its editorial pages that Dunn was to blame for pushing Marshall
                    down the path of constitutional ruin. Calling Dunn "advisor to the throne and oracular
                    interpreter of all constitutions," 
                  
                     75 "Declare People's Right Is Usurped," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 15, 1911.
                  
                     76 "Proposes Clean Sweep," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 17, 1911.
                  
                     77 "Durbin and Hanly Assail Marshall," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 17, 1911; "Riddle Plan of Governor," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 18, 1911.
                  
                     78 Editorial, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 16, 1911.
               
                     the editorial also blasted him for his "unerring
                    inaccuracy" on constitutional matters. The newspaper went on to claim that Democrats like
                    Dunn and Marshall worshipped a "tin god called "powers not delegated."
                    The editorial proclaimed that anybody using such powers "is fit for nothing less terrible
                    than boiling oil."79
            
            Despite these partisan attacks and complaints from women's suffrage and prohibition special
                    interest groups, Dunn stood firmly behind his proposal. He produced a number of articles defending
                    the new Constitution for the Democratic-leaning News, which, along with the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sun (a politically independent newspaper), supported the reform effort.
                    Dunn's News articles outlining the case for the new Constitution were
                    eventually combined into a pamphlet titled The Proposed Constitution of Indiana.
                    In them he acknowledged the protests of those interests not included in the legislation, but he
                    pointed out that their concerns could be addressed in the future, since the amendment process would
                    be much easier with the new Constitution than under the old one. He also proclaimed that those
                    people who liked the changes but opposed the way in which the Constitution was submitted had an easy
                    method for registering their complaint—the ballot box. "If you really believe
                    that ‘it is good meal, but it came through the wrong hopper, advised Dunn, "the
                    sensible course is to take the meal and save your condemnation for the hopper."80
            
            Along with Dunn, Marshall was kept busy defending the effort to change the state's highest
                    law. The Republican onslaught against the measure hardened the governor's support for
                    Dunn's work. In a letter to Democratic Congressman Henry Barnhart, Marshall noted the
                    outcry over the issue but reasoned that "the way the Republicans are jumping onto it [the
                    new Constitution] convinces me that it must have some merit in it."81
                    In a later letter to the congressman, Marshall outlined his other, more frugal reasons for backing
                    the document: 
                        While the lawyers amendment is pending, we can propose no additional amendments. To get rid
                            of it would perhaps cost $100,000.00 in a special election. To call a
                            constitutional convention might cost half a million dollars and nothing be accomplished. The
                            proposed changes are so slight as to not shock anybody when they are considered, can be
                            passed upon by the people without a single cent of expense; if rejected, no harm is done, if
                            approved, an easy way is opened up for all future changes in the constitution which the
                            people may desire. If the method is illegal and improper, of course, the courts are open to
                            stop the same. I am quite sure that all good citizens desire a more stringent regulation of
                            the franchise.82
                  
                    
            
            Besides the cost, Marshall feared that because of the widely divergent views in Indiana on such
                    reform issues as prohibition, 
                  
                     79 Editorial, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 18, 1911.
                  
                     80 Dunn, The Proposed Constitution, 47.
                  
                     81 Marshall to Henry Barnhart, February 17, 1911, Marshall Papers
                            (Indiana State Archives).
                  
                     82 Marshall to Barnhart, February 22, 1911, ibid.
               
                     equal suffrage, and the initiative, referendum, and recall, any
                    constitutional convention "would be fraught with great danger and would shake the state
                    into a great passion." He also foresaw that a convention would be filled with partisan
                    bickering, a prediction Marshall said was substantiated by the GOP assaults on the new
                        Constitution.83
            
            Dunn, often acting as the governor's mouthpiece in this matter, gave other reasons for
                    Marshall's support. As a lawyer himself, the governor, Dunn argued, was concerned that the
                    existing five-member Indiana Supreme Court was too small to handle what had become a large caseload.
                    Other issues Marshall supported that were blocked by what Dunn termed "an antiquated
                    constitution" included the passage of a workmen's compensation law and an easier
                    method for the state to condemn property.84
            
            As the Constitution made its way briskly through the General Assembly, the courts seemed to be the
                    only roadblock left. Introduced by Senator Evan Stotsenburg, Senate Bill No. 407 passed the Senate
                    on February 27, 1911, despite Republican efforts in the Senate's Committee on
                    Constitutional Revision to postpone action on the matter indefinitely. A similar situation occurred
                    in the House, where the bill survived further GOP attempts at postponement. On March 2, 1911, amid
                    bitter partisan feeling (the Star reported that doorkeepers had been ordered to
                    prevent Republicans from leaving the chamber during the vote), the House also approved the new
                    Constitution. Two days later, Marshall signed the bill into law.
            Frustrated at being unable to stop the new Constitution at the legislative level, opponents turned to
                    the judicial branch for relief. John Dye and Addison Harris, two men who Dunn said had attempted to
                    block previous Democratic reform legislation, sought a 
                        Marion County
                     Circuit Court injunction preventing the State Election Board from placing the
                    Constitution question on the ballot 
                  
                            
                        83 "Governor Defends New Constitution," 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                News, June 2, 1911. James A. Woodburn, an Indiana University professor
                                of American history and politics, disagreed with Marshall's assessment that a
                                constitutional convention might become too partisan. Instead, Woodburn described the new
                                Constitution as "too unusual and too partisan." He predicted that if
                                the document made its way to Hoosiers for their decision at the polls, it would be
                                defeated by 100,000 votes. "Three parties," he said, "will
                                oppose it in conventions,—Republicans, Socialists and
                                Prohibitionists." James A. Woodburn to Grace Julian Clark, March 22, 1911,
                                Grace Julian Clark Papers (Indiana State Library).
                            In a May 5, 1913 speech to the Woman's Franchise League of Indiana, Woodburn
                                conceded that the Indiana Constitution's amending process was
                                "absurd," but he differed from Dunn and Marshall's approach
                                for revising the measure. The professor advocated letting "the people decide in
                                the good old way—through men elected for the purpose, their accredited
                                representative in convention assembled—what changes shall be proposed in
                                their constitutional organic law." Although he acknowledged that such a
                                convention might produce some bickering, Woodburn noted, "out of it all will
                                come the common judgement, and by that we can afford to abide." James A.
                                Woodburn, Why Indiana Needs a New Constitution (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1913).
                        
                  
                     84 Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, 11, 771.
               
                     in the 1912 election.85 Judge Charles
                    Remster, a Democrat, granted the injunction, and the case was appealed to the Indiana Supreme Court.
            This temporary judicial setback sparked Dunn to continue to proclaim the need for his measure.
                    Restating his belief in honest elections, Dunn said the movement to reform Indiana's
                    Constitution would succeed despite Judge Remster's decision and the upholding of the
                    Constitution by the state's highest court—an action he anticipated since the
                    court had a Republican majority. Since the attempt at constitutional revision was what he called a
                    "moral reform movement" (a familiar argument made by reformers during the
                    Progressive Era), neither "court decisions, nor & any other obstacles,"
                    could halt its eventual success "any more than the anti-slavery movement was stopped by the
                    Dred Scott decision."86
            
            On July 5, 1912, Dunn's prediction of the higher court's decision was fulfilled,
                    but with a twist. By a slim one-vote majority the Indiana Supreme Court upheld Judge
                    Remster's decision. The court's decision crossed party lines, as two Republican
                    judges were joined by a Democrat in the majority opinion. Chief Justice Charles Cox, 
                  
                     85
                     Ibid.
                  
                     86 Undated speech given to the American Political Science Association
                            annual meeting, December 27–30, 1911, Dunn Papers (Indiana State Library).
               
                    
                  MARION COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT JUDGE CHARLES REMSTER
                  
                  Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     the sole Democrat, wrote in the majority opinion that the
                    case's main question was whether or not creating a new Constitution was "a valid
                    exercise of legislative power by the General Assembly."87
            
            Cox ruled that the "legislative authority" granted to the General Assembly by the
                    Constitution did not include the power to replace or amend the Constitution unless the legislature
                    followed the process already outlined in the 1851 Indiana Constitution. Although acknowledging the
                    potential need for revising the document, Cox maintained that if the people of the state believed
                    changes were needed, they could make them by following the procedure already spelled out in the
                    existing Constitution. "That they have not done so, and that the General Assembly may
                    believe good will follow by deviating from the slow and orderly processes, will not justify a
                    construction of the Constitution which does violence to its intent and express provisions,"
                    wrote Cox.88
            
            Dissenting from the majority opinion, Justice Douglas Morris believed that the court had overstepped
                    its authority by killing the new Constitution before the people had the chance to vote on it. The
                    court, he wrote, had the power to decide whether or not a statute had been legally adopted, but it
                    could not "restrain the enactment of an unconstitutional law." To issue an
                    injunction in this case, he added, would prohibit the legislature and electors from exercising their
                    "legislative duty." He used as an example a messenger from the General Assembly
                    taking a bill already passed by that body to the governor. "Would anyone imagine,"
                    Morris said, "the progress of the messenger could be arrested by an injunction? The inquiry
                    answers itself." He saw no distinction between the situation he outlined and the
                    court's action in stopping a vote on the new Constitution.89
            
            This dissenting view was echoed by Marshall, who took a page from his opponents on the issue by
                    calling the court's action "a clear usurpation of authority."90 He called the court's majority opinion "the most flagrant
                    interference on the part of the judicial with the rights, privileges and duties of the legislative
                    and executive branches of government."91
            
            Although Marshall was urged by many friends to disregard the court's decision and place the
                    Constitution question on the ballot, he decided to obey the majority's opinion. In
                    reflecting on the controversy, he said
                        I did not feel that I could afford to show any disrespect to the majority of the Supreme
                            Court of the State of Indiana, or to lessen the respect in which I was teaching the people
                            to hold the court's opinions, by myself openly flaunting one of its opinions.92
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  87
                        Ellingham v. Dye, 178 Indiana Reports 336–443 (1912), quotation at
                        340–41.
               
                  88
                        Ibid., 381.
               
                  89
                        Ibid., 439.
               
                  90 Marshall, Recollections, 214.
               
                  91
                        Ibid., 210.
               
                  92
                        Ibid., 213.
            
            
            Instead of openly defying the court's decision, Marshall turned to the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court for relief. His appeal alleged that the Indiana Supreme Court's
                    decision on the new Constitution denied the people of Indiana a "republican form of
                    government." Before the Supreme Court could hear Marshall's case, however, he left
                    the governor's office to become vice-president in Woodrow Wilson's administration.
                    Because of what Marshall termed a "technicality" (the appeal failed to substitute
                    his successor's name for his own), his appeal was denied on December 1, 1913.93 The Star, which fiercely opposed the new Constitution, praised the court's
                    decision and hoped the ruling would discourage "dark lantern methods in the revision of
                        constitutions."94
            
            Blocked by the judiciary in his plan for a new Constitution, Dunn vented his wrath at the Indiana
                    Supreme Court's decision. Ever the reformer, and someone who hated to lose on any issue, he
                    lamented the lack of checks and balances on judicial power. Dunn said that until the American people
                    rid themselves "of the absurd delusion that all judges are upright, and incorruptible, and
                    infallible, and above partisan control, they will simply continue to suffer any indignities that the
                    courts may choose to inflict upon them."95
            
            Paradoxically, the defeat of Dunn's new Constitution, to which Marshall had so closely
                    allied himself, actually helped the governor's subsequent political career. The furor over
                    the Marshall administration's campaign for constitutional reform was "very
                    instrumental," according to Dunn, in securing Marshall the vice-presidential nomination at
                    the Democratic party's national convention in 
                        Baltimore
                    . The often rancorous debate on the issue succeeded in advertising Marshall's
                    name "from one end of the nation to the other," said Dunn. He further theorized
                    that it was Marshall's support for such a progressive measure which changed William
                    Jennings Bryan's view of the Indiana governor as a "reactionary."96
            
            Dunn eventually left Indiana for service in 
                        Washington
                     as private secretary to 
                        United States
                     Senator Samuel Ralston, who succeeded Marshall as governor. Indiana constitutional
                    reform, however, continued to interest the historian. In 1921 at a meeting of the Indiana Democratic
                    Club of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Dunn blasted three 
                  
                     93
                            Ibid., 214. Marshall later met one of the 
                                United States
                             Supreme Court justices at a 
                                Washington
                             dinner party and asked him why he had dismissed the case on the technicality.
                            Marshall quoted the judge as replying: "If we had gone into the case we should have
                            been compelled to decide that you were right and that the Supreme Court to Indiana was
                            wrong, and that was a thing we did not care to do unless we had to, it being the invariable
                            policy of the Supreme Court not to interfere, if it can avoid doing so, in any political
                            questions arising in any of the states of the Union." Ibid.
                  
                     94 Editorial, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, December 2, 1913.
                  
                     95 Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, II,
                            775–76.
                  
                     96
                     Ibid., 776.
               
                     of thirteen amendments offered to the Constitution by the
                    Republican party and mourned the defeat of his earlier legislation. If the 1911 Constitution had
                    been made law, the state would have been "spared the humiliation during the late war of
                    having alien enemies entitled to vote under its constitution. We are in a position to say:
                    ‘I told you so;’ and Democrats ought to feel free to say it."97
            
            Despite Dunn's fulminations against the Republican-backed constitutional amendments, one of
                    them was similar to an amendment he had backed eleven years earlier. Amendment One, which was the
                    only one of the thirteen amendments to receive more yes than no votes in the 1921 special election
                    (130,242 for the measure versus 80,574 against), limited suffrage in Indiana to 
                        United States
                     citizens, either native-born or fully naturalized. On March 10, 1921, governor Warren
                    T. McCray declared the amendment adopted.98
            
            The Indiana Constitution as it existed in 1911 was outdated, and Dunn's document contained
                    measures that would be considered commonplace in the last decade of the twentieth century. Still,
                        
                  
                            
                        97 Dunn, The Constitutional Amendments and the
                                    Democratic Party: An Address Delivered June 17th, 1921 to the Indiana Democratic
                                    Club of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                         (
                                    Greenfield
                                , Ind., 1921), 16. Dunn came down especially hard on a proposed amendment
                                that allowed blacks to serve in the Indiana militia. If a black militia company was sent
                                to quell a labor dispute, Dunn theorized, there would be a race riot and "the
                                streets of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 will run blood on account of it." He also noted that although 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 had "a large population of orderly and well-disposed negro
                                citizens," the city had been for years a "haven for the criminal
                                classes expelled from other places, and especially from the South." Ibid., 3–4.
                            Dunn had also displayed his racial bias seventeen years earlier in another Indiana
                                Democratic Club speech. In his talk, Dunn lambasted a Republican party platform plank
                                that called for a reduction in both congressional representation and the electoral
                                college for states unconstitutionally limiting voting rights.
                                "Suffrage," he claimed, "had debased the negro, on the
                                average, instead of elevating him. It has given him a false idea of citizenship. It has
                                made him insolent and quarrelsome instead of self-respecting." Because Dunn
                                believed that the right to vote was based on the state's welfare, it would be
                                unkind to give blacks "a right that is injuring him and injuring the state
                                also." The state would not be unjust, he continued, in denying voting rights
                                "to the negro who remains illiterate, shiftless or criminal." Dunn,
                                    The Negro Issue: An Address by Jacob Piatt Dunn, City Controller of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , before the Indiana Democratic Club, October 13, 1904 (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1904), 17, 22. See also "Jacob P. Dunn Talks on the Negro
                                Issue," 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                News, October 14, 1904. The historian displayed a more progressive
                                attitude on the subject of women's rights. At the Indiana Historical
                                Society's annual meeting on December 27, 1888, Dunn sponsored a resolution
                                proclaiming to the membership that it was "the sense of the Society that ladies
                                were admissible to membership." His attempt to open IHS membership to women
                                failed; not until 1907 did the first female, Eliza Browning, become a Society member.
                                See Woodburn, The Indiana Historical Society: A Hundred Years, 27.
                        
                  
                     98 Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana;
                            Vol. III, 1916–1930 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XVII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1930), 193, 221–31. The suffrage amendment survived a court
                            challenge questioning whether it had been approved by "a majority of the electors
                            of the state." The Indiana Supreme Court ruled in the case Simmons v.
                                Bird that a majority of electors meant a "majority of the electors who
                            vote at the election at which an amendment is submitted for ratification." The
                            amendment, the court said, was "properly adopted, regardless of the fact that there
                            may have been a much greater number of qualified electors in the state than the number of
                            those who actually voted at the special election." Ibid.,
                            231–43.
               
                    
                    
                  INDIANA AUTHORS PLAYING CARD DEPICTING JACOB PIATT DUNN, JR.
                  Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                constitutional scholars have recommended against allowing legislatures to make wholesale
                    changes to their constitutions; they have preferred the more standard approach of having lawmakers
                    offer a few amendments or call for a special constitutional convention to make the needed
                        revisions.99 Also, Dunn's admitted attempts to limit suffrage
                    through the Constitution in order to gain a partisan advantage come election time were
                    antidemocratic, especially in the attempt to limit alleged foreign influence at the polls through a
                    poll tax and literacy requirements. The Indiana Supreme Court, however, overstepped its authority
                    when it ruled Dunn's document unconstitutional even before it could be considered by
                    Hoosier voters.
            Whatever the problems with his means, Dunn should receive credit for conjuring up a unique method for
                    attempting to change what has been called a "‘stage coach’ era
                        Constitution."100 Before Dunn's more liberal method for
                    constitutional changes were adopted, revisions in the state's highest law had proceeded at
                    a glacial 
                  
                     99 Luce, Legislative Principles, 140. Constitutional
                            theorists have argued that a legislative body has neither the time nor expertise necessary
                            to craft a new Constitution for a state. They also cite the possibility that
                            lawmakers' actions might be "colored by political
                            considerations," The political party in power could "exert undue political
                            influence in rewriting the fundamental law." A specially called constitutional
                            convention would be less likely to be influenced by outside pressures in its deliberations
                            and "more likely to exercise independent judgment than legislators who are active
                            participants in the political arena." Albert Sturm, Methods of State
                                Constitutional Reform (
                        Ann Arbor,
                                    Mich.
                     , 1954), 23.
                  
                     100 Justin E. Walsh, The Centennial History of the
                                Indiana General Assembly, 1816–1978 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1987), 329.
               
                     pace for many years. From the 1850s to the 1930s, the General
                    Assembly considered approximately four hundred constitutional changes. Of that number, twenty-five
                    were considered by voters at the polls and only nine were approved, seven of which passed at an 1881
                    special election.101
            
            Dunn's determined struggle to push his creation through the system typified the
                    historian's perspective on life. His was an outlook that could not be confined to recording
                    the facts for posterity; Dunn was happiest as an active participant in the political process. His
                    experiences in fighting to secure honest elections in his native state (by introducing the
                    Australian ballot law to Indiana and by proposing a new Constitution) helped him produce riveting
                    firsthand accounts of Indiana's history in such multivolume works as Greater 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                and Indiana and Indianans. His fusion of history and
                    politics continues to affect Hoosiers every time they enter voting booths, close the curtains, pull
                    the levers, and mark their choices for representation in complete secrecy.
            
               
                  101
                        Ibid., 335. See also "Assembly to Consider Four Amendments to
                        Constitution," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, January 19, 1925.
            
         
         
         
            A Hobo Memoir, 1936
            John E. Fawcett
            Introduction by Elizabeth Rambeau*
            
            The following extracts come from John E. Fawcett's 1991 "Awakening of
                    Conscience," an unpublished memoir of the author's experiences as a teenage hobo
                    in June of 1936. Fawcett based his longer version of the story on a diary he kept in a pocket-sized
                    spiral notebook, which he took with him on the journey. The memoir in its entirety, too long to
                    print here, describes Fawcett's background and earliest hobo adventure and goes on to
                    detail his round-trip hobo journey from 
                  Wheeling,
                            West Virginia
               , to 
                  Dallas, Texas
               ,
                    in the summer of 1936. Reprinted here are two segments of the memoir: the author's
                    introduction, which expresses his reasons for taking to the road that summer; and his description of
                    the westward journey through Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     and into 
                        Missouri
                    .
            Fawcett joined the hundreds of thousands of homeless transients in 1936 not because he himself was
                    destitute but because he was what hobo scholar Drummond Mansfield has called a "scenery
                    bum," a person who lives the hobo's peripatetic life for the thrill and enjoyment
                    of travel. At the beginning of June, 1936, Fawcett and his best friend and travelling companion,
                    Mick McKinley, perused a brochure for the 
                        Texas
                     Centennial Exposition to be held that summer in 
                        Dallas
                    . The boys made their plan then to ride the rails to 
                        Dallas
                    , take in the fair, and get summer jobs on a 
                        Texas
                     ranch. Fawcett remembers feeling secure with McKinley as his fellow hobo: although a
                    year younger, "he outweighed me by about ten pounds or so and had a more athletic build
                    than I did&. He walked with an easy grace and a sort of swing to his shoulders which
                    communicated to any observer that he was ready for any one at any time."1
            
            
               
                  * John E. Fawcett is a retired seaman and lives in
                                
                     Seattle, Washington
                  . In 1965 he won that city's Community
                        Brotherhood Award from the National Council of Christians and Jews in recognition for his
                        volunteer civil rights work in 
                            Mississippi
                         between the months of February and June of that year. Elizabeth Rambeau is
                        assistant editor for the Indiana Magazine of History. She is a Ph.D. student
                        in history at Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        . The editors would like to thank Drummond Mansfield for supplying some of the
                        illustrations and bringing the article to the attention of the Indiana Magazine of
                            History.
               
                  1 John E. Fawcett, "Awakening of Conscience"
                        (typescript, 1991), 33. This memoir is in the possession of the author.
            
            
            The summer journey was not Fawcett's first hobo adventure. He and friends from the Linsly
                    Military Institute had practiced riding freight trains and passenger blinds to neighboring towns
                    each Saturday. He had also made a solo trip of several days' length during a cold snap in
                    February, 1936, to visit a friend whose family had moved from 
                        Wheeling
                     to 
                  Huntington, West Virginia
               , a distance of about 180 miles.
            Now that Fawcett had experimented with riding the trains locally and had spent several days on the
                    road, he was ready to make a longer trip. He and McKinley left 
                        Wheeling
                     on Saturday, June 6, 1936, on the B&O railroad. They decided to use assumed
                    names while they travelled in case they were arrested: Fawcett became George Murphy and McKinley
                    took on the name of John Kendall. It was not long before their new names proved useful; the boys
                    were thrown in jail in 
                  Parkersburg, West Virginia
               , less than twenty-four hours after
                    setting out from 
                        Wheeling
                    . They remained in prison for three days, losing all of their emergency money to jail
                    fees and to other prisoners. But the experience appears not to have deterred them. "After
                    we got out of the jug," wrote Fawcett in his diary on the day the boys were released,
                    "we got some eats and then nailed a hot shot train of solid reefers, about 70 cars all
                        iced."2
            
            Many hobo autobiographies were written by "professional" hoboes with the help of
                    professional writers.3 John Fawcett's memoir of his hobo experience is
                    set apart from others in both of these instances.4 To begin with, Fawcett was
                    not, as has already been mentioned, a hobo by necessity. He also wrote his memoir himself, 
                  
                     2 The "solid reefers" were loaded refrigerator cars
                            filled with ice and possibly fresh produce from the South.
                  
                     3 Examples include: William A. Bailey, Bill Bailey Came
                                Home (
                        Logan, Utah
                     , 1973); Ben L. Reitman, Sister of
                                the Road: The Autobiography of Box-Car Bertha (
                                New York
                            , 1937); William Edge, The Main Stem (
                                New York
                            , 1927); Charles Elmer Fox, Tales of an American Hobo (
                                Iowa City
                            , 1989); Douglas A. Harper, Good Company (
                                Chicago
                            , 1982); and Charles Ray Willeford, Z Was Looking for a Street
                                    (
                        Woodstock, Vt.
                     , 1988).
                  
                     4 Hobo autobiographies which more closely conform to
                            Fawcett's experience are those written by nonprofessional hoboes: Nels Anderson,
                                The American Hobo: An Autobiography (Leiden, The Netherlands, 1975);
                            Gerald Leeflang, American Travels of a Dutch Hobo, 1923–1926
                                    (
                        Ames, Iowa
                     , 1984); Jack London, Jack London on
                                the Road: The Tramp Diary and Other Hobo Writings, ed. Richard W. Etulain
                                    (
                        Logan, Utah
                     , 1979); Dale Maharidge, The Last
                                Great American Hobo (Rocklin, Calif., 1993); Jim Tully, Beggars of
                                Life (
                        Garden City, N.Y.
                     , 1924); and George Witten, Outlaw Trails: A Yankee Hobo Soldier of the Queen (
                                New York
                            , 1929). Other studies of hoboes from a scholarly perspective include: Kenneth
                            Allsop, Hard Trauellin': The Hobo and His History (
                                New York
                            , 1967); Nels Anderson, The Hobo: The Sociology of the Homeless
                            Man (
                                Chicago
                            , 1923); Howard M. Bahr, Skid Row: An Introduction to
                                Disaffiliation (
                                New York
                            , 1973); Roger Bruns, The Damndest Radical: The Life and World of
                                Ben Reitman (
                        Urbana, Ill.
                     , 1986); Roger Bruns, Knights of the Road: A Hobo History (
                                New York
                            , 1980); Irwin Godfrey, American Tramp and Underworld Slang (
                                London
                            , 1931); Richard Wormser, Hoboes: Wandering in America,
                                1870–1940 (
                                New York
                            , 1994); and Daniel A. Wren, White Collar Hobo: The Travels of
                                Whiting Williams (
                        Ames, Iowa
                     , 1987). Collections of hobo music
                            are also available, such as Larry Penn's "Workin' for a
                            Livin"' and 
                                Utah
                             Phillips's "All Used Up."
               
                     basing it on the brief journal he had kept during his trip,
                    fifty-five years earlier. While it is true that Fawcett's status as the sixteen-year-old
                    son of an upper-middle-class ophthalmologist made him different from the professional hoboes, bums,
                    and tramps whose mode of travel he shared, that fact does not make his experience any less
                    authentic. He and McKinley rode the passenger car "blinds"5
                    and the freight trains, worked for their food, and slept in the hobo "jungles"
                    just as other homeless transients did during the Great Depression.
            
               ARTIST'S INTERPRETATION
                        OF
                        THE HOBO SIGN
                        MEANING "TELL
                        A PITIFUL STORY"
            
            Fawcett's memoir, both in its longer version and in the excerpts published here, reveals a
                    person who does not conform to the stereotype of a 1930s hobo. Hoboes, bums, and tramps, while
                    lumped together in the popular imagination, are each viewed in their own circles as being distinct.
                    "A hobo was someone who travelled and worked, a tramp was someone who travelled but
                    didn't work, and a bum was someone who didn't travel and didn't
                        work."6 All three groups were generally believed to be lazy and
                    inarticulate, misconceptions which have attained the ring of truth through years of repetition. In
                    fact, hobos found ingenious ways to communicate among themselves while keeping their words secret
                    from non-hoboes (whom they occasionally called "hoosiers!"). They accomplished
                    this through the use of hobo signs, symbols they drew in chalk to mark places where the sick could
                    go for aid or the starving could receive a free meal. Hoboes developed signs to designate biting
                    dogs, safe camps, dangerous towns, and clean water supplies. Because the signs were drawn in chalk,
                    however, no actual examples—or even photographs of them—survive. The symbols
                    reproduced in this article are based on research into actual hobo signs but were created by artists
                    at 
                        Michigan State
                     University and published in 1965.
            
               
                  5 The blinds are located on the outside of the accordion-like structures
                        which connect baggage cars on a passenger train. A person standing on the ledge and holding on
                        to the metal bar there is not visible to the engineer or any of the conductors while the train
                        is moving.
               
                  6 Quoted in Lynne M. Adrian, "Introduction," in Fox, Tales of an American Hobo, xvi. Adrian's introduction to
                        Fox's autobiography provides an excellent, if brief, overview of the genre of hobo
                        autobiography.
            
            
            All hobo autobiographies, writes Lynne M. Adrian, include "certain persisting
                    elements": the author's reasons for going on—and leaving—the
                    road; the inevitable encounter with a seasoned hobo who introduces the newcomer to the ways of hobo
                    life; tales of riding a particularly fast or dangerous train; descriptions of train wrecks which
                    frequently involve the death of a hobo; stories of the author's experiences in jail; and
                    proud recounting of the author's acquired prowess at begging or working for food.7 It is interesting to note that Fawcett's original journal contains
                    these elements as well, although its author had never before read a hobo autobiography.
            Fawcett finally reached his destination of the 
                        Texas
                     Centennial Exposition on Sunday, June 28, after three weeks of hard travelling. He
                    spent one day at the fair before finding an eastbound train to take him home, where he arrived on
                    the fourth of July. His trip back to 
                        West Virginia
                     took just five days.
            
               
                  7 Adrian, "Introduction," xvii.
            
            
               "JUDGE"
               Reproduced from Idiom 4: Hobo Signs, 
                            Michigan State
                         University Department of Art (
                            East Lansing
                        , 1965).
            
            
            
               JOHN E. FAWCETT'S HOBO JOURNEY, SUMMER, 1936 — WESTBOUND & EASTBOUND — WALK/HITCHHIKE
               
            
            
            [Author's Introductionl]1
            
            The decisions I made and the experiences I had in 1936 made a complete and fundamental change in the
                    direction that my life was to take. Now in my 73rd year I feel the need to try and put those events
                    into words for the fun of remembering, and also as an aid in coming to terms with my life. I was
                    fortunate to be born with an affinity for details of time and place and their associated trivia
                    which perhaps explains my lifelong interest in history. At about age thirteen I began the rather odd
                    habit of keeping a diary, and that practice lasted almost continuously until I was married at age
                    23, which brought a much less self-centered purpose and pleasure to my life. I still have those old
                    diaries, roadmaps and railway timetables which are a considerable help in writing about events of
                    fifty-five years ago!
            I was born and raised in 
                        Wheeling, W.
                        Va.
                     where I lived until my graduation from high school in June 1937, when I left home and
                    went to sea. I had two brothers, one a year older and one a year younger than myself and I remember
                    my childhood almost entirely with warmth and pleasure and satisfaction. My father was a doctor in
                    the practice of Ophthalmology, and he and my mother were loving, caring parents who provided us with
                    a secure and varied small town family life. As such we did not want for anything during the years of
                    the nineteen thirties when the Great Depression brought so much poverty, suffering and destitution
                    to our country.
            After finishing 4th grade in public school, my brothers and I were sent to Linsly Military Institute,
                    a private boys school only a mile from our house. We did not question this because my father and his
                    brother had gone there before us. Fawcett boys went to Linsly and that was that! I know now that I
                    received a better education in Linsly than I would have in public school, if only because we had 12
                    to 14 students in a class compared to 30 or more in public school. However by the time I was in high
                    school I had really begun to hate school because of the military discipline and punishment that was
                    meted out to boys like me who did not conform. Perhaps an even stronger reason for my disenchantment
                    with military school was that I really envied all the other boys I knew who went to public school
                    and got to be with girls all day! I was filled with envy when they told about taking girls to
                    Saturday night dances and I remember one girl named Betty Lou who really tried to help me overcome
                    my awkwardness by attempting to teach me to dance. But truth to say it never took, and to this day I
                    feel that my life was the poorer for that.
            
               
                  1 The Author's Introduction is shortened slightly from the way it
                        appears in Fawcett's typewritten manuscript of "Awakening of
                        Conscience." The midwestern segment is from the author's transcription of that
                        manuscript. In order to maintain the flavor of the article, the editors have made no changes of
                        any kind.
            
            
            When I was twelve years old I wanted to be a railway locomotive engineer or a cowboy, I
                    wasn't sure which. When I was fourteen, I wanted to be a fighter pilot and fly Spads. When
                    I was seventeen years old I wanted to be a lecher, but I didn't know how to go about it! I
                    yearned to seduce women of all ages, but I didn't even know how to talk to them! I was
                    painfully shy and had no social graces whatever so I built model airplanes instead, which I was very
                    good at.
            By the time I was a junior in high school I had come to realize that I was
                    "different". I could not have put into words then, but I think I instinctively
                    knew that I was not to be a doctor or a lawyer, nor destined for the usual life and goals of a
                    private school boy from a well-to-do family. One can only speculate as to why children of the same
                    parents with identical upbringing often turn out so differently. With me I think it started in the
                    fascination with reading in about the 5th or 6th grade. When I was fifteen years old in 1933 my
                    father gave me a complete set of Joseph Conrad which I had read by the time I finished high school.
                    That was no easy task for me and not to be compared to Jules Verne or Zane Grey. But I judged it to
                    be worth all the effort to read Conrad's epics of adventure at sea and of human struggle
                    and the striving for personal honor in a world of adversity and corruption. He gave me my first
                    experience of real inspiration and uplift and "victory." Slow reading, yes, but
                    not quite such tough going as Marx' Das Kapital which I attempted with
                    small success a few years later!
            In 1936 I don't think I could have given a definition of the words Republican or Democrat
                    nor explained the meaning of the political terms Right and Left. I did not know the reason for all
                    the strife and the union organizing struggles going on around us in the nearby steel mills and coal
                    mines of 
                  West Virginia, Ohio
                and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . I did not understand why all the Negro population of 
                        Wheeling
                     were confined in a ghetto and referred to as Niggers. I remember even now being stunned
                    and mystified upon hearing one of my classmates say in the locker room after football practice one
                    day: "Come on, we're going on a Nigger hunt tonight." I never learned,
                    and I don't know to this day, if this had some real sinister meaning or whether it was just
                    adolescent prejudice and bravado. I only know that I walked the mile to my home that afternoon
                    filled with apprehension, but I never had the courage to inquire further or to discuss it with
                    anyone.
            I had always been about an average student or maybe a little better, but in February 1936 I was full
                    of anxiety and discontent. I was a junior in high school and believed that I was flunking in
                    Chemistry and Algebra, which were my hardest subjects. I think now that I was just using that as an
                    excuse for revolting against the suffocating confines of the strictly disciplined military
                    educational system which I was growing to detest more every day. So on the  evening of February 7th, 1936, with the temperature down below zero,
                    and the ground covered with snow, I ran away from home! Perhaps it would be more accurate to say I
                    ran away from school, but I still shudder when thinking of that night.
            One might guess that this act was not entirely un-premeditated! For over a year a couple of my
                    non-conformist high school chums and I had been finding adventure in hopping freight trains on
                    Saturdays. We would catch a train coming up out of the B&O freight yards and ride it thirty
                    miles east to 
                  Washington, Pa.
                and jump off. After waiting there for an hour or two we
                    would catch another freight going back to 
                        Wheeling
                    , arriving there by four or five in the afternoon, in time for me to duck into the house
                    and take a shower with neither my brothers nor my parents being any the wiser. And they did not
                    learn of it for over a year until our football coach (my Civics teacher) got wind of it from one of
                    our classmates who we'd been bragging to in study hall about our exploits! I felt only
                    insult and anger (and I still do today) that Mr. Whitfield, instead of coming to me about it, or at
                    worst informing my father, chose instead to report us to the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     Railroad police who sent a Special Agent to my father's office to report my
                    crime.
            It makes me squirm in my chair even now to imagine the humiliation it must have caused my father who
                    at that time was surgeon for the B&O Railroad! That evening when my father got home he
                    invited me up to my room for a talk, and he never even raised his voice in anger! I remember him
                    concluding with these words: "That is the kind of conduct I simply will not
                    tolerate." As he turned to leave my room he looked back at me saying: "DO I make
                    myself perfectly clear, son." And that was the last I ever heard of that, but it sure as
                    hell put an end to our Saturday afternoon train riding!
            However, the damage was done. I was already a steam railroad freak and every night in bed I could
                    hear the lonesome wailing call of those whistles echoing through the hills inviting me to be up and
                    away beyond the horizon. All this is by way of saying that when I left home that frigid night in
                    1936, I did know how to ride freight trains, and the blinds on passenger trains as
                    well, ("riding the blind baggage", as it was called then).
            The blinds were the spaces between baggage or passenger cars outside the accordion-like structure
                    that surrounded the walkway between the cars. At the bottom of the car ends there was a narrow
                    transverse platform or step that you could stand on. Then up the outer corner of the car there was a
                    vertical railing or "grab-iron" as it was called, that you could hold on to. This
                    put you in standing position looking out to the side enjoying the scenery as it flashed by. Riding
                    the blinds was not all that dangerous so long as you stayed alert and did not loosen your hold.
                    However it was very tiring over long distances, because you couldn't relax or sit down and
                    have a 
                    
                  "LEAVE TOWN"
                  Reproduced from Idiom 4: Hobo Signs, 
                                Michigan State
                             University Department of Art (
                                East Lansing
                            , 1965).
               
                     cigarette as you might when riding the tops of freight cars, or
                    inside an empty box car. The advantage of course in riding the blinds on passenger trains was that
                    wherever you were going, you got there a hell of a lot faster! I have told how we started to ride
                    freight trains, but a word about how we got to riding the blinds might be in order. I have said that 
                        Wheeling
                     was on the main line of the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     Railroad, but in fact it was also served by a branch line of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Railroad. This line ran along the Ohio River about 30 miles north
                    from 
                        Wheeling
                     through Warwood and Follans-bee to intersect with the Pennsy main line near Weirton, W.
                    Va.
            One of Linsly's traditional rivals of our basketball team was Follansbee High School about
                    20 miles north of 
                        Wheeling
                    . Follans-bee was a scheduled stop for the local Pennsy passenger train that left 
                        Wheeling
                     about seven in the evening. Johnson (Mick) McKinley, my school chum and best friend,
                    had been riding the Saturday trains with me for a year or more. On Friday afternoon, January 10,
                    1936, while we were in study hall Mick said to me: "Hey, John, why don't we ride
                    the blinds on that local Pennsy passenger train up to Follansbee tonight, and get off there and see
                    the game, then get a ride home with one of the guys?" Unlike most well laid plans this one
                    worked perfectly! It was snowing and a bitter cold night as we mingled with the other people on the
                    station platform. When the train started to move we sprinted up toward the front and swung up into
                    the first blind behind the tender, and we were on our way! A few minutes later we jumped off right
                    across the highway from Follansbee High School as the train was slowing for the station. We saw the
                    game, got a ride home and were in bed before midnight with a new adventure to our credit. The only
                    bad part was that Follansbee beat us by a score of 24 to 22!
            Before I left home that evening in February 1936 I put a note on my father's desk in his
                    study, telling him that I was upset and just wanted to get away for a little while, that I was going
                    to visit a friend, and please not to worry about me.
            I can only begin to understand now (having five children and seven grandchildren of my own) what
                    terrible anguish I caused my parents that winter night so long ago.
            
            
            [A Hobo Journey Through the Midwest, 1936
            We were at the west end of the railroad yard in 
                        Cincinnati
                     munching on stale rolls when we heard the unmistakable sound of a big locomotive
                    getting a long freight train under way. Within minutes my friend, Mick, and I were on a gondola car
                    full of sand and reclining in the sunshine. It was a train of over a hundred cars carrying other
                    freeloading "passengers". We passed through 
                        Aurora
                     and 
                        Osgood
                    , Indiana and after a couple of hours came to a rattling stop in the town of 
                        North Vernon
                     where we got off. A rather meager hobo jungle* was located on the north side
                    of the tracks just a few blocks from the residential part of town. We'd been sitting there
                    in the shade for a while when we got talking to a man named Shorty Frazier.
            He was a professional hobo, having been on the road for years. He'd had polio (infantile
                    paralysis, we called it then) as a child, leaving him with a withered leg and a very severe limp. We
                    travelled with him for a week or so and found him to be a gentle man and a good conversationalist
                    with a sense of humor. He read a newspaper every day, had a penchant for personal cleanliness and an
                    abiding hatred of the capitalist system. I had never known anyone like him.
            Soon the three of us agreed to "make our presence known" in the community by
                    knocking on doors. We learned that day, the universal transient's rule that, when possible,
                    always enter from the alley and knock on the back door rather than the front. This way there was a
                    much better chance of success. The reasons were self evident, especially in the South, where
                    tradesmen, Negroes and other unendowed persons were expected to use the back door.
            
               
                  * Where hoboes gather to cook and wash or just rest.
            
            
            
               ARTICULATED FREIGHT LOCOMOTIVE USED
                        ON
                        THE WHEELING-PITTSBURGH DIVISION
                        OF
                        THE B&O RAILROAD
               
               Line Drawing by John E Fawcett, September 16. 1936
            
            Another fascinating bit of hobo-ology that our friend, Shorty, showed us that day was the habit of
                    some old Knights of the Road of carrying a piece of chalk in their pockets. When one of those
                    worthies received a handout, or especially a "sit down" (a plate of food brought
                    out while sitting on the porch or back stairs), he would, when returning to the alley, write
                    carefully with his chalk on the fence or garage door, the number eighteen. This was a secret code to
                    others of the brotherhood that here is a house where "I ate".
            There is one more incident which locks that day in my memory and makes me remember Shorty Frazier
                    with fondness. We had agreed to meet back in the jungle after a couple of hours to share our bounty.
                    The only success I had was from a little old lady who gave me a rather ‘used’
                    ham bone with a small amount of fat and meat adhering to it and all wrapped in newspaper. Mick and
                    Shorty were already there when I returned with my contribution. When I removed the wrapping and
                    proudly displayed my gift, Shorty roared with laughter and exclaimed, "By God, kid,
                    that's one for the books. From now on I'm gonna call you Ham Butts
                    Murphy!" Later we made a batch of coffee in a tin can to go along with scraps of my
                    "Ham Bisque".
            At dusk we walked the tracks through town to the freight yard where a westbound train was due out
                    around ten o'clock. About a half dozen of us were waiting on an embankment under a highway
                    overpass when a big railroad dick materialized out of the darkness with a pistol in one hand and a
                    flashlight in the other. He yelled at us to turn our backs and "grab for the sky".
                    He shook each one of us 
                    
                  "SAFE CAMP"
                  Reproduced from Idiom 4: Hobo Signs, 
                                Michigan State
                             University Department of Art (
                                East Lansing
                            , 1965).
                down with some care, then marched us single file up the embankment to the highway and told
                    us to "keep right on going out of town". We walked about two blocks then turned
                    left to walk another two blocks parallel to the tracks. Another left turn brought us back to the
                    yards again where we found an empty box car and turned in for the night.
            An hour after rolling out in the morning, we were sitting on a grassy knoll beside the tracks having
                    just heard the wail of steam whistles coming from down in the yards. There she came and what a sight
                    to see! It was a long double headed freight train pulled by two huge steam locomotives spouting
                    smoke and steam as they came roaring through the switches onto the main line. Nothing compares to
                    that sight and sound and it raises my pulse and blood pressure to this day. No God damn wonder kids
                    run away from home!
            Because of his crippled leg, Shorty was not able to run and catch a train "on the
                    fly" as most of us preferred to do. He had to board the train before it got going or when
                    it was moving very slowly, so he walked down into the yards to catch the train as it started. Most
                    of us got on the trains at the end of the yard where all the tracks converged into the main line.
                    Here there was less chance of encountering the railroad police or getting jailed for vagrancy. After
                    boarding we walked back along the tops of the box cars until we found Shorty riding on an empty flat
                    car. He claimed that being crippled made it an advantage for him to board within the yards.  Railroad dicks or train crews, seeing his condition, would
                    often show him where to board or actually give him a boost to help him on his way.
            It was a pleasant ride through the Indiana farm country. After passing through Seymour, we arrived at
                    the little town of 
                        Mitchell
                    , Indiana. Here we left the train and started making the rounds in search of lunch, all
                    the while keeping an eye to windward for the local sheriff. 
                        Mitchell
                     is where the east-west 
                        Baltimore
                     & 
                        Ohio
                     Railroad crosses the north-south Monon Line. Upon visiting here in recent years I found
                    the town to look exactly as it did in 1936 except the engines are now Diesel instead of steam.
            Shorty said that he was going to change railroads here and take the Monon north to 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , thence the Big Four Railroad west which he claimed was safer and a better ride. Mick
                    and I both felt secure in traveling with this old timer who was also good company. We decided to go
                    with him. After some success in allaying our hunger, we swung onto a northbound Monon freight and
                    held it down through 
                        Bedford
                     to 
                        Bloomington
                    . It was a truly hot day and we soon found the shady jungle on the banks of a creek not
                    far from the yards. We all three splashed in the water and had a welcome wash up. Shorty did not
                    have a ‘bindle’ instead carrying a worn old suit coat, the pockets of which
                    held an impressive supply of basic possessions. These included a razor, bar of soap, small towel,
                    jack knife, pair of socks and most surprising of all, a collapsible aluminum drinking cup such as I
                    have not seen for many years. It consisted of four or five telescoping aluminum rings and when
                    pressed flat was about the size of a snuff can. We asked where the hell he'd found it but
                    he just smiled and, with a wink, said his girl friend had given it to him.
            We all washed our socks and undershirts in the stream using Shorty's soap and hung them on a
                    tree branch to dry. Shorty sat on the bank, stripped to the waist with his bare feet
                    showing—the right one considerably misshapen and smaller than the other. He turned out
                    his pockets, taking inventory of his worldly possessions, all the while talking to us about the
                    problems of sanitation and personal hygiene while being on the road.
            There were hundreds of thousands of homeless people on the road in those days and every one of them
                    had to relieve themselves several times a day. It doesn't take much imagination to
                    appreciate the magnitude of the problems this created while living under the kind of conditions that
                    we did. In the open country it was usually a fairly simple matter to go into the woods or hay fields
                    or corn rows. However, in populated areas it became a serious problem. City parks and libraries
                    often had public toilets but these had been so overwhelmed after years of depression that they were
                    usually out of order or closed entirely. I often looked for a filling station restroom that could be
                    approached from the blind side, otherwise I was  almost certain
                    to seen and "informed" by a kick or a yell to "get the hell out
                    0' there!" Railroad passenger station restrooms were the best for toilets and
                    washing up, but due to our mode of travel, they were seldom nearby when needed. We learned never to
                    go into a strange hobo camp after dark looking for a place to sleep for we were almost certain to
                    lie down in something unpleasant. I found my sense of smell to be the best guide in these
                    circumstances but urgency can be a tough taskmaster.
            At the other end of the food chain was the problem of drinking water. This was always so in the
                    summer time when "beating the road and especially in the South. One emergency source was
                    the drain at the bottom of ice compartments on refrigerator cars. Only small amounts of water were
                    accessible from this source. When the train was stopped it took a long while for the the drip-drip
                    to furnish enough water to satisfy a thirst. I have used this method when a freight train was
                    stopped on a passing track awaiting a train from the opposite direction. Most times one would find a
                    creek or pond and hope the water wasn't contaminated.
            Toward evening the three of us walked the several blocks into downtown 
                        Bloomington
                     arriving by chance at the Salvation Army building. We entered just in time to take in
                    the brief prayer service which was a prelude to their public feeding program. We were then led into
                    a small dining room next to the kitchen with a dozen other guys and served a large bowl of chili,
                    bread, coffee and canned applesauce. A real banquet for us and I have been partial to the Salvation
                    Army ever since.
            We visited with a nearby railway crossing watchman in his little shack and he told us that all trains
                    were cancelled because of a wreck at Putnamville, quite a ways up the line. So we found an empty box
                    car down in the yards and sat in the open door chatting and watching the sunset before we
                    "went to bed. The next morning the crossing watchman told us there was a local freight
                    going out soon. A short time later we were on board and after an hour or so we were stopped in the
                    little country village of Gosport, Indiana. The train could go no further because the wreck at
                    Putnamville had still not been cleared. Just south of Gosport there was a pleasant woodland of small
                    trees on both sides of the Monon right of way. Here was evidence of several small hobo camps at one
                    of which a half dozen ‘bos were sitting around a small fire. We elected to occupy one of
                    our own nearby and settled in for what turned out to be an enforced and hungry stay of two days.
            The opportunity for bumming food in the village of Gosport was limited and soon exhausted so we spent
                    most of the time just sitting around our little jungle fire. The hunger and tedious monotony led to
                    arguments, short tempers and a sullen silence among the three of us. During that period we saw
                    little of Masefield's "jolly fellow rovers" or the joys of "the
                    vagrant gypsy life" but one thing did happen 
                    
                  1992 HOBO CALENDAR ILLUSTRATION
                            BY DRUMMOND MANSFIELD
                  
               
                     the next day that made the stay memorable for me. We were
                    climbing the railway embankment to walk the tracks into town with Shorty in the lead. About half way
                    up the slope he suddenly said, "Hello!" and leaned over grasping the bottom of the
                    stalk of a half dried plant. He pulled his hand up the branches and in doing so, got a handful of
                    small dried leaves and blossoms. He looked at us with a mischievous grin saying, "You guys
                    ever see Hobo's Tobacco? Just as good as the real thing." He took two cigarette
                    papers from his pocket and with the leaves, rolled a cigarette for himself and one for us. He lit up
                    telling us to take a couple of easy puffs to see how we liked it. When we both said it tasted
                    strange he laughed, "Well, don't smoke too much of it, kids, ‘cause
                    that's Mary Jane. It'll make you feel good and forget your hunger."
                    Within a minute I felt as though I were walking about ten feet above the railroad tracks, but
                    instead of feeling good I felt quite ill and rather scared. Such was my first experience with
                    marijuana!
            In the morning Shortly walked over to the camp near us to try and trade some doughnuts for coffee. He
                    returned in a few minutes with a copy of the local newspaper which had an article about the train
                    wreck. There was a picture of the locomotive engineer, Happy Eaker, who had been killed along with
                    two or three hoboes who had been riding on a flat car loaded with huge millstones from a quarry near 
                        Bloomington
                    .
            In the middle of the afternoon there came the wail of an engine's whistle and in minutes we
                    were on our way again! An hour later the train was crawling slowly past the scene of the wrecked
                    train about a mile north of Putnamville. We were aghast at the sight of the big locomotive on its
                    side in a cornfield amidst a tumble of smashed and broken freight cars. We went on through
                    Cloverdale then on to 
                        Ladoga
                     where the train went in the "hole" (siding) to await a southbound
                    freight. Mick ran across a field to try his luck at a farmhouse. I stayed put for fear of being left
                    behind for more starvation in rural Indiana. Mick returned with a smile on his face and a sandwich
                    in his pocket and we were on our way again. Late in the evening, after a long day, we arrived at the
                    sizeable town of 
                        Crawfordsville
                     which appeared to hold more promise of sustenance for us. And so it did. We walked from
                    the yards, circled the town square, and I went into a cafe to make my pitch and I hit the jackpot!
                    The owner was stern but answered quickly saying, "Fair enough, if you'll work,
                    you'll eat". He had me haul coal in buckets from the back yard into a small store
                    room beside the kitchen for use in the cook stove. Then I swept out the whole place fore and aft.
                    After washing up, the owner sat me down at the end of the counter and served me roast beef, mashed
                    potatoes and the works! So it was my turn to crow at Mick and Shorty when we met later by the
                    "wailing wall" on the west side of the court house. We gave it that name after
                    hearing Shorty "wail" about the "young bucks strolling with  their girlfriends, sucking on ice cream cones and won't even
                    give you a nickel!"
            As darkness fell we walked a few blocks east over to the Big Four tracks and slept under a highway
                    overpass along with half a dozen other footloose gentlemen flaked out on the ground. It was Sunday
                    evening, June 14, 1936, and I was beginning to feel like a real hobo and having some doubts whether
                    that was a good thing or not.
            We turned out early in the morning and walked out into the environs to offer the local citizens our
                    labor in exchange for something to eat. As Shorty said, "If you offer to work, it
                    ain't begging!" Before long we were back under the overpass helping Mick to make
                    an important decision for himself. He had met a guy in Gosport who said his dad would have some work
                    for him in a few days. The same kid said that he had an uncle who owned a sawmill in Marshall,
                    Arkansas where we could get summer jobs. So within an hour Mick left to catch a Monon freight back
                    to Gosport and I went on to Marshall to get the sawmill job and await Mick's arrival in a
                    week or so. The best laid plans and all that!
            Shorty and I lounged around the jungle most of the day reading newspapers and talking with some of
                    the other "bedroll tourists". We bummed our eats in the evening and about sundown
                    caught a westbound Big Four freight. We rode a couple of hours through the night to
                            
                  Danville, Illinois
                where we piled off. After spending the night in an empty box
                    car we arose early and went our separate ways into town to find breakfast.
            Shorty never showed up at the place where we had agreed to meet and a short sad sentence in my diary
                    says, "I'm all by myself now." I loafed all day by the 
                        Wabash
                     tracks in 
                        Danville
                    , but there were no trains going west and no sign of Shorty. I met up with two fellows
                    in the evening and we finally caught a 
                        Wabash
                     freight about 8:30. We rode in an empty box car to 
                        Decatur
                     and I slept most all the way. A railroad "bull" kicked us off in the
                    yards, then we found another box car to sleep in the rest of the night.
            In the morning I walked up to the main part of town and bummed my breakfast at a restaurant. It was
                    here a trick that Shorty taught us came in handy. The way it worked was like this: You walked by the
                    front of a cafe or restaurant a couple of times, peering in the window looking for a man that is
                    eating his meal and has an empty stool next to him, or better yet, an empty stool between two men.
                    You walk in and plop down on the empty stool and when the waiter or waitress comes to you, speak
                    right up so you can be heard by the customers on both sides of you and make the pitch about
                    "being hungry and doing any kind of work for something to eat." If it was the
                    owner or a male waiter who'd spoken to you, then the chances were they would turn you down
                    and tell you to "get outta here." If it was a waitress, then sometimes she would
                         say "O.K. just a minute" and perhaps,
                    putting her job right on the line, she would go get a coffee and a doughnut and slide it quickly in
                    front of you without giving you a check. But usually the answer was "NO" from the
                    other side of the counter. However, the kicker here is that when the guys on either side of you
                    heard your plaintive pitch there was a fair chance that one or the other of them would say something
                    as follows, "It's O.K., miss, I'll buy the fellow a doughnut and
                    coffee," or "That's alright waitress, give the man some breakfast and put
                    it on my bill." Believe me there is no greater feeling when you are hungry and on the bum
                    to have someone spring for your breakfast right there before God and everybody.
            I worked this ruse perhaps a dozen times on that trip, and scored maybe half the time, which is
                    pretty good. A truck driver in Parsons, 
                        Kansas
                    , not only paid for my breakfast, but gave me two dimes to "get yourself some
                    lunch." The minute I left that restaurant I went to the corner store and bought a sack of
                    Bull Durham cigarette tobacco, a Baby Ruth candy bar, and still had a dime for lunch! So if
                    there's anyone in the world I can blame for my lifelong addiction to Kipling's
                    "Great God Nicotine", it's that truck driver in Parsons who gave me the
                    extra dimes! Oh sure, it was all his fault!
            Meanwhile back in 
                        Decatur
                     I had walked out to the end of the yards with a couple of other fellows. We were
                    sitting under an overpass talking to an older guy who was giving out good advice which hit home with
                    me right at that time. He said, "Learn to look out for yourself, kid, ain't no one
                    else gonna do it for you, an another thing, never beat the road alone, always have a traveling
                    partner. Ya' get dumped once and that could be the last time for you." Dumped is
                    hobo's vernacular for being rolled, assaulted or otherwise physically attacked. Then he
                    said, "You kids gonna ride the Cannonball this morning?" Before we could answer we
                    heard the sounds of a big locomotive coming our way and within a minute we had caught the famous 
                        Wabash
                     Cannonball on the fly. It was a hot-shot manifest train and the fastest freight I ever
                    rode. I stood up the whole time holding the railing on the front of a tank car, and god what a ride!
                    It is over a hundred miles from 
                        Decatur
                     to 
                        East St. Louis
                     and we made it in two hours flat including a short stop at 
                        Mitchell
                     and at one other place. In East 
                        St. Louis
                     I got separated from the two guys I'd been with and it seems that I walked for
                    hours before getting to the 
                        Missouri
                     Pacific Railway yards at 
                  Dupo, Illinois
               . I knocked on some doors in a poor
                    working class neighborhood near the yards and got a couple of small handouts then caught a long
                    freight on the 
                        Missouri
                     Pacific after sundown. I rode in a gondola car full of gravel and went to sleep soon
                    after leaving. We went on and on through the night, and I woke up when we rumbled slowly across the
                    big high level bridge crossing the Mississippi River at 
                  Thebes, Illinois
               .
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Greatest Basketball Story Ever Told: The Milan Miracle, Then and Now. By
                    Greg Guffey. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1993. Pp. xv, 205. Illustrations. Clothbound,
                    $24.95; paperbound, $12.95.)
            My first encounter with Hoosier Hysteria took place over a quarter of a century ago in March of 1969.
                    While driving from 
                  Nashville, Tennessee
               , to 
                        Muncie
                     for a job interview, I stopped off at a small Indiana diner about 10:00 p.m. The place
                    was packed and abuzz with conversation about "sexuals" (or at least so I first
                    thought. Hmm. Maybe Indiana is more hip than its reputation suggests). It soon became clear that
                    basketball "sectionals" had all in their grasp. I could not help but overhear the
                    joyous recapitulations of the evening's contests. What amazed me most, though, was the deep
                    sense of history imbedded in the basketball talk. The citizens of Seymour or 
                        Greensburg
                     or wherever I was did not just discuss that evening's games. They noted that
                    Jimmy's jump shot was just like the one his uncle had made back in ‘58; a mere
                    round ball seemed to provide the thread that bound past and present generations.
            Greg Guffey would have felt right at home in that little diner. I suspect the fact that he is a 1991
                    graduate of Notre Dame or that 
                  MILAN TEAM
                            WITH TROPHY: FROM LEFT
                            TO RIGHT, KEN WENDELMAN, GENE WHITE, BOB
                                ENGLE, ROGER SCHRODER, RAY CRAFT, BOB PLUMP, RON TRUITT
                  
               
                     he is currently assistant director of communications in the
                    Indiana House of Representatives is less important to him than the fact that he is a devoted fan of
                    Indiana high school basketball. This book is a hymn of praise to Hoosier Hysteria, as Guffey retells
                    the story of one small school's basketball state championship in 1954. Milan's
                    triumph over mighty 
                        Muncie
                     Central is the stuff of mythology, as Guffey tirelessly reminds us. Indeed, the first
                    half of the work basically covers old material, deeply familiar to anyone interested in Indiana
                    basketball.
            The second half of the account plows new ground, as Guffey offers a kind of "where are they
                    now" view of Milan coach Marvin Wood and most of his players. The author concludes that
                    although they are "a group of folk heroes who come into the spotlight once a year,
                    & they don't live for that spotlight" (p. 203). In fact, they have all
                    "achieved individual success in the post-championship years" (p. 203). In other
                    words, there are no crashing failures looking back, Rabbit Angstrom-like to high school glory.
                    "The Greatest Basketball Game Ever Played remains important but not defining for its
                    participants.
            This is a warm, fuzzy as opposed to a cold, analytical work. Guffey writes in a pleasant, if somewhat
                    repetitious, "golly gee" journalistic style. He wants to tell a happy story rather
                    than peel back layers of the meaning of "sport as text" in a postmodern world.
                    Sports historians interested in such analysis will not find it here, except for a few obvious
                    connections between sport and civic religion. 
                  MILAN FANS
                            AT
                            THE 1954 STATE FINALS
                  
               
                     Members of the general public, however, will discover a very
                    good read and thank Indiana University Press for taking "a chance" on a
                    nonscholarly book (p. ix).
            TONY EDMONDS is professor of history at Ball State
                    University, 
                        Muncie
                    . He is the author of a biography of prizefighter Joe Louis and is currently co-writing
                    a history of Ball State.
         
         
            
               Shake Down the Thunder: The Creation of Notre Dame
                    Football. By Murray Sperber. (
                        New York
                    : Henry Holt and Company, 1993. Pp. xxii, 634. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $25.00.)
            
               Under the Tarnished Dome: How Notre Dame Betrayed Its Ideals for
                        Football Glory. By Don Yaeger and Douglas S. Looney. (
                        New York
                    : Simon & Schuster, 1993. Pp. 299. Illustrations. $23.00.)
            
               Notre Dame, as Don Yaeger and Douglas S. Looney remind their readers, is many
                    things. It is a distinguished university partially supported by an endowment in excess of
                    $600 million and generous alumni and friends. The formula for synthetic rubber was
                    discovered there, and today researchers at Notre Dame are working on ways to
                    control the spread of disease and searching for the secrets to the origins of the universe. But
                    beyond the economic and academic successes of the administration and faculty, Notre
                    Dame is a state of mind. Traditions, not boom boxes, echo around the campus.
                        Notre Dame is Knute Rockne, the Four Horsemen, Win One for the Gipper, and
                    Frank Leahy's five national championships and four consecutive undefeated seasons.
                        "Notre Dame," write Yaeger and Looney, "presents
                    itself as all that is good and great about college football. It is an image of winning without
                    breaking—or even bending—the rules &. It is an image of winning
                    without becoming a football factory, without forfeiting its academic soul. But even more than
                    symbolizing all that is wonderful about football, Notre Dame stands for the
                    very best in American higher education" (p. 73). The thesis of Yaeger and Looney's
                        Under the Tarnished Dome is that by placing Coach Lou Holtz at the head of its
                    football program, Notre Dame has become a Miami of the Rustbelt, cashing in its
                    proud tradition for mere victories.
            One trouble with Yaeger and Looney's account of Notre Dame's
                    fall from grace is that the descent is measured from a false elevation. To understand Holtz, one has
                    to know the history, not the mythology, of Notre Dame football.
                    Holtz's career at Notre Dame makes no sense without a firm grounding
                    in the reality of Knute Rockne. Fortunately, Murray Sperber's Shake Down the
                        Thunder presents a well-researched and even-handed discussion of the Rockne era. Reading
                        Shake Down the Thunder, one begins to understand Rockne as he really lived,
                    before Hollywood, Ronald Reagan, and a team of hagiographers reinvented his life.
            
            Knute Rockne, Sperber argues, functioned quite well on the same moral and ethical playing field as
                    the other coaches of the 1920s. The difference was that he was smarter, more driven, and better able
                    to work in the gray areas. Although he was always ready to extol the virtues of the student-athlete
                    for the right price on the after-dinner lecture circuit, in private he put little stock in the
                    hybrid. His coaching career at Notre Dame was studded with transgressions. He
                    sidestepped NCAA recruiting rules by using an informal "bird dog" network of
                    former players, Notre Dame alumni, and friendly sportswriters. He attracted
                    outstanding talent to Notre Dame with promises of campus jobs, which he
                    virtually controlled, and summer jobs, which he successfully delivered. And he showed far more
                    interest in the athletic side of his "student-athlete" wards. George Gipp,
                    Rockne's most famous player, was a case in point. Gipp's troubled academic record
                    presented a stark contrast to his string of athletic accomplishments. Raised in a rough mining town
                    on 
                        Michigan
                    's Upper Peninsula, Gipp's passions centered on football, baseball,
                    pool, cards, and any other activity that involved betting. Since he evidently never discovered a
                    successful way to bet on academics, he demonstrated no interest in that area. His transcripts show
                    that for two of his four years at Notre Dame (he died in his fifth) he received
                    no grades. In his sophomore year, he did not even bother to show up at Notre
                    Dame until October 14––he missed the first two football
                    games—and he dropped out of school in November after breaking his leg in a game. The next
                    year he again showed up late and this time played a full season, but a blank transcript suggests
                    that he did not actually register or attend any classes. At one point Notre
                    Dame expelled Gipp, but when 
                  Michigan,
                            Pittsburgh
               , West Point, and other major
                    football powers began bidding for his services, Rockne convinced President James Burns to reinstate
                    his star player. Father Burns undoubtedly believed that the Gipp affair would be soon forgotten. As
                    Sperber notes, Father Burns "had no way of knowing that within nine months George Gipp
                    would become Notre Dame's first consensus All-American, would die, and
                    then, twenty years later, would be sanctified in a Hollywood film" (p. 108).
            It should be emphasized again that Rockne and Notre Dame's ethical
                    standards were no worse—and actually, as far as the Notre Dame
                    administration is concerned, they may have been slightly better—than the other college
                    powers of the period. Sperber gives example after example of the ways Rockne adapted to and
                    succeeded in the ethically wide open world of big time athletics. Rockne, comments Sperber,
                    "learned to swim with sharks & and not bleed" (p. 60). One aspect of the
                    world that Sperber documents is the system of choosing officials for games. During the Rockne era,
                    sports-writers often doubled as football officials and special college publicity agents. For a
                    price—a quite nice price—sportswriters would  use their positions to drum up interest in a game and then officiate
                    and report on that same game. It was a system worthy of the worst excesses of Boss Tweed; abuse was
                    inherent in the arrangement. If sportswriters liked a coach, they showered him with favorable
                    publicity and good calls. They like best the coaches who paid the most. And they really liked the
                    Rock. Walter Eckersall of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune worked many of Notre Dame's biggest games
                    and was Rockne's favorite. After working one early-season game, Eckersall wrote to Rockne,
                    advising him to "get your backs to time their shifts more. They were badly off last
                    Saturday and were in motion nearly ever time" (p. 90). As a friend of Rockne's,
                    Eckersall passed on his gentle criticism in a private letter rather than whistling infractions
                    during the game.
            
               Shake Down the Thunder is a long, detailed book, the result of Sperber's
                    thorough research in the office files of the Notre Dame athletic department
                    (which includes Rockne's daily correspondence) and in the administrative archives of
                        Notre Dame. It is an important book for anyone interested in the origins of
                    big time college athletics, higher education in America, the emergence of Irish Catholicism as a
                    force in American culture, and the role sportswriters played in forming the Rockne and
                        Notre Dame legends. It details Notre Dame's
                    victories and defeats from 1900 to 1941, the truth behind the myths, and Rockne's career as
                    a coach and entrepreneur. At times, it engages in overkill; some readers might tire of
                    Rockne's negotiations with referees and problems with ticket-hungry Notre
                    Dame supporters. But these problems are small.
            Only on one important point would this reviewer disagree with Sperber. Throughout his study, Sperber
                    tends to side with the would-be reformers of college sports. Perhaps Sperber is correct; perhaps
                    they were battling for academic standards and cleaner—if not pure—amateurism.
                    Implicit in the code of amateurism, however, is a class-based ideal that was exclusive and fostered
                    a restriction of competition. Rockne disliked reformers, probably for no better reason than that he
                    suspected they were hypocrites and made life harder on him. The world Rockne championed was open and
                    democratic. He believed that no one should be excluded and that excellence should be rewarded. An
                    immigrant, Rockne's vision was as deeply American as Horatio Alger's and John D.
                    Rockefeller's. That vision proclaimed: everyone take your mark, get set, go. The winner is
                    the one who gets there first.
            That notion remains strong at Notre Dame where winning is
                    important. If it were not, Gerry Faust would still be greeting everyone he saw on autumn afternoons
                    at Notre Dame. As Yeager and Looney certify, Faust was an "eminently
                    decent man" who loved Catholicism, Notre Dame, and every player with
                    whom he came in contact. Father Theodore Hesburgh once observed, "I think [Faust] should
                    have been a priest" (p. 89). But he became a coach instead, a  very successful one at 
                        Cincinnati
                    's Moeller High School, but a not very successful one at Notre
                    Dame, where "not very successful" translates as "very
                    bad." After the 1985 season Faust resigned and Notre Dame, led by
                    Father Edmund Joyce, hired Lou Holtz to revive the fighting spirit and winning ways of the Irish.
            This Holtz did. Yaeger and Looney focus on the methods Holtz used to turn the program around. Based
                    mostly on interviews, nearly one hundred of them with former players, Yaeger and Looney detail the
                    steroid, academic, and human abuses at Notre Dame. They recount tales of
                    Holtz's pressuring players to play hurt, physically and emotionally abusing players, and
                    doing whatever it took to win national championships. Next to the sanitized image of Rockne, Holtz
                    begins to look like Mephistopheles in the land of the Golden Dome. Read next to Sperber's
                    account of Knute Rockne, however, Holtz seems like just another successful coach swimming laps with
                    the sharks and not bleeding.
            RANDY ROBERTS is professor of history, Purdue University, 
                        West Lafayette
                    , Indiana.
         
         
            
               "Come, Blackrobe": De Smet and the Indian Tragedy. By John J.
                    Killoren. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1994. Pp. xv, 448. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            Father John J. Killoren, S.J., offers another biography of Peter John De Smet and his role in Native
                    American history. The author follows many trails: De Smet's life; Jesuit missionary
                    activities in the Far West; the fur trade; Indian policy; and the destruction of the American bison.
                    Chronologically, Killoren surveys the years from 1774 to 1878 but concentrates on the years between
                    De Smet's first trip west of 
                        St. Louis
                     to his death. Chapter 2 is a staccato rendering in chronological format of information
                    related to the fur trade and De Smet's life from 1823 to 1840; however, De Smet often
                    becomes lost on the trail in other chapters which are a severe critique of 
                        United States
                     Indian policy and of the individuals involved in its formulation and implementation.
            Kdloren maintains that De Smet's story is no ordinary biography, but the story of an
                    exceptional Jesuit evangelical who developed a unique spiritual relationship with Native Americans,
                    who exercised influence with them, and who was one of the very few Americans of his time who
                    understood what the disappearance of the bison meant for Indians on the Plains: poverty,
                    reservations, and dependence on the largess of the 
                        United States
                     government for survival. The author accepts at face value the hundreds of reported
                    baptisms of Indians by priests and leaves unanswered the question as to whether or not Indian
                    peoples actually understood Catholicism and comprehended the intricacies of concepts such as the
                    Trinity. Or did Indians simply, hospitably, fit De Smet's Catholic  God into their concept of Wakantanka? What, in the
                    long term, did baptism mean for Indians who, moved by the moment, yielded to the sacrament?
            Killoren deftly excuses priests who failed with their neophytes because of their ethnocentrism but
                    criticizes non-Catholics for not judging Indians by De Smet's standards: Thomas Jefferson
                    yielded to mere expediency and William Clark practiced deceit. Historians will reject
                    Killoren's claim that "few historians manifest an appreciation of the tragedy
                    imposed upon [the] & Plains tribes" by the destruction of "their buffalo
                    culture &" (p. 350).
            Notes and bibliography indicate that the author researched in primary and secondary sources. However,
                    Killoren relies too often on the conclusions of others rather than offering his own interpretations.
                    On a single page Killoren depends on John E. Sunder, Merrill J. Mattes, and Robert M. Utley as his
                    authorities, making his work a synthesis of existing literature (p. 346).
            The University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press has done justice to the manuscript and has included two groups of illustrations,
                    four useful maps, and a handsome dust jacket. Killoren has digested a mass of historical literature
                    on his subjects, and this is the biography that now must be considered. De Smet
                    clearly emerges as one of the few Americans who saw the full dimensions of the collapse of the
                    Plains Indian cultures through the wanton destruction of the bison. But when De Smet accepted the
                    support of the 
                        United States
                     government to carry to the Plains tribes his message of peace, did not De Smet himself
                    become an agent for Manifest Destiny? And was not Roman Catholicism, especially when based on the
                    "reduction" model developed in 
                        Paraguay
                    , no matter how well intentioned, just another attack on the cosmology and culture of
                    Indians and another manifestation of Jesuit religious imperialism which led to their ouster from 
                        Spain
                    's colonies in America?
            PETER M. WRIGHT is professor of history at 
                        Oklahoma City
                     Community College and has lectured on Native American history at Regis University, 
                        Denver
                    , Colo., and the University of Wyoming, Laramie, where he wrote
                    "Washakie" in American Indian Leaders: Studies in Diversity
                    (1980).
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Gettysburg
                        : Culp's Hill and Cemetery Hill. By Harry W. Pfanz. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1993. Pp. xix, 507. Illustrations, maps, appendixes, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $37.50.)
            No event in American Civil War history has been written about more than the battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                    , yet new works continue to be published. An abiding and apparently widespread interest
                    in the battle seems to renew itself from generation to generation. Those who share that interest
                    surely have a champion in Harry W. Pfanz,  whose new book, 
                  
                            Gettysburg
                        : Culp's Hill and Cemetery Hill, is an excellent monograph on a
                    lesser-known portion of the battle. It is a companion to his highly acclaimed earlier work, 
                  
                            Gettysburg
                        : The Second Day, and is the definitive work on the fighting which took place
                    on July 2 and 3, 1863.
            Pfanz's organization of the work makes this an eminently readable history. He brings to the
                    effort a lifetime of study and experience, having served as both Historian for the 
                        Gettysburg
                     National Military Park and Chief Historian for the National Park Service. He weaves a
                    narrative that is both factual and flowing, from the grand strategy and maneuvers to the poignant
                    and personal accounts of those who experienced the nation's worst bloodletting. The book
                    shows the development, interaction, and results of the tactics used by the two opposing forces.
            The book marks Hoosier achievements and sacrifices on the Union right: the 27th Indiana Infantry
                    Regiment, for example, made a fateful charge, along with the 2nd 
                        Massachusetts
                    , across Spangler's Meadow, only to be stopped halfway across. Nearly half of
                    those troops went down, and all but two of the nine-member color guard were shot. Few regiments in
                    the war experienced such depletion in one action. Pfanz puts this charge into the overall context of
                    the battle, and while it becomes no less regrettable and sacrificial, it is at least more
                    comprehensible.
            With the publication of this work, Harry W. Pfanz joins the elite of 
                        Gettysburg
                     historians with Edwin Coddington and John Batchelder. He has provided another excellent
                    work, and the battle, mythical as it has become, is now better and more clearly defined.
            JAMES A. TRULOCK is former president of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Civil War Round Table and recently appeared on the Arts and Entertainment network
                    biography of General Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain. He is currently working on a biography of Civil
                    War journalist Amos M. Judson.
         
         
            
               The North Fights the Civil War: The Home Front. By J. Matthew Gallman. (
                        Chicago
                    : Ivan R. Dee, 1994. Pp. xi, 211. Note on sources, index. $22.50.)
            J. Matthew Gallman has written an intensive account of the northern home front during the Civil War.
                    It is the author's thesis that "to understand the Civil War home front we must
                    consider both how individual Northerners experienced the war years and how the North collectively
                    reacted to the conflict's challenges in its communities, organizations, and
                    businesses" (p. x). Although the book is concerned primarily with the North's
                    activities, Confederate counterparts are occasionally identified because "such comparisons
                    are useful in that they suggest both the significance of the North's superior economic
                    capacity and the critical importance of the regions' different cultural
                    traditions" (p. xi).
            
            The book is admirable in scope. Some of the topics discussed are those one would expect, such as the
                    role of women, race, medicine and nursing, and politics. Others are unusual, including the impact of
                    the war on entertainment, sports, the arts, trade unions, and commemorations and celebrations. The
                    book gives illuminating details of the northern methods for financing the war and information
                    concerning the U.S. Sanitary Commission and the U.S. Christian Commission.
            The book persuasively contradicts certain conventional observations about the war. It is commonly
                    said that the war stimulated and advanced the growth of the northern economy and imposed permanent
                    harm on the southern economy. The author notes that "available evidence suggests that
                    although Northerners enjoyed prosperity during the war years, the pace of growth probably slowed in
                    most sectors" (p. 184). The war neither sparked the North into a dramatic industrial
                    takeoff nor permanently crippled the southern economy. In most respects, according to the author,
                    there was a continuity in the North's wartime experience, which underwent adjustments but
                    involved very few dramatic changes. "The Union never adopted the wholesale mobilization of
                    resources under federal control that we associate with total war" (p. 194). Southerners
                    were forced to accept far more dislocation. In the North, in spite of Emancipation and the growth of
                    Federal power, attitudes of northerners did not change significantly as a result of the war;
                    "they persisted in their faith in tradition and localism while clinging to a world governed
                    by race, gender, and class hierarchies" (p. 195).
            Packed with information, this book is tightly written and well organized and responds to significant
                    historical questions. It contains neither footnotes nor endnotes and the note on sources is fairly
                    brief. Nevertheless, the index means that the book will be convenient as a resource.
            ALAN T. NOLAN is a lawyer and writer. His Civil War books are The Iron Brigade (1961) and Lee Considered: Robert E. Lee and Civil War
                        History (1991).
         
         
            
               Aimee Semple McPherson: Everybody's Sister. By Edith L. Blumhofer.
                            (
                  Grand Rapids, Mich.
               : William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1993. Pp. xiii, 431.
                    Map, illustrations, note on sources, appendix, index. Clothbound, $24.99; paperbound,
                    $14.99.)
            This biography of the evangelist Aimee Semple McPherson is the newest contribution to
                    Eerdmans's Library of Religious Biography, edited by Mark A. Noll and
                    Nathan O. Hatch, which focuses on figures in the Anglo-American Evangelical tradition. Edith L.
                    Blumhofer, who teaches at Wheaton College in 
                        Illinois
                     and directs  the Institute for the Study of
                    American Evangelicals on that campus, is well known for her scholarly work particularly in the
                    Pentecostal tradition and here turns her attention to one of the most significant women in American
                    Evangelicalism.
            Blumhofer's study of McPherson takes the form of a traditional biographical narrative and is
                    very sympathetic toward a figure whose colorful career during the "ballyhoo" years
                    of the 1920s has elicited frequent skepticism and occasional hilarity. Much of the originality here
                    lies in the author's emphasis on McPherson's nurture both in the
                    nineteenth-century Evangelical culture of rural 
                        Ontario
                    , an area heretofore unexplored by most American scholars, as well as her and her
                    mother's profound involvement in the Salvation Army, an organization that made much deeper
                    inroads in 
                        Canada
                     than in this country. Blumhofer also stresses the protean quality of nascent American
                    Pentecostalism, which tolerated in its early days practices such as McPherson's divorce. As
                    Pentecostalism began to harden into denominational status, a process alien to the spirit in which
                    she had been raised, McPherson retreated increasingly to the margins of the movement and focused on
                    her own interdenominational and less dogmatic "Foursquare Gospel" movement.
            Blumhofer is clearly most comfortable with the younger McPherson, whose frenetic life of missionary
                    and evangelical work leaves the reader breathless. She deals frankly with McPherson's
                    courtship by the Ku Klux Klan, which she handled gingerly while repudiating its racism. However, the
                    author begins almost visibly to retreat to a safer distance when she takes on McPherson's
                    mysterious disappearance and putative kidnapping in 1926, claiming, perhaps justifiably, that the
                    evidence is inconclusive. She also is uncomfortable with other aspects of "Sister
                    Aimee's" later career, in which she began to use makeup, dress fashionably, and
                    lend her name to commercial endorsements. After her death in 1944 of an apparently accidental
                    overdose of sedatives, McPherson was buried in Forest Lawn Cemetery, a symbol of her close
                    relationship with the distinctive culture that had emerged in the southern 
                        California
                     of her day.
            Blumhofer writes both sympathetically and engagingly, though perhaps not as critically as some might
                    have, in her treatment of this most remarkable woman. In following the series format, she omits
                    footnotes, although the lengthy essay on sources will provide some compensation to more scholarly
                    readers. Although not everyone would be as generous in their appraisal of McPherson's
                    career, all might read this extensively researched and gracefully written life of
                    "Everybody's Sister" with interest and profit.
            PETER W. WILLIAMS teaches religion and is director of the
                    Program in American Studies at Miami University, 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               . He is co-editor
                    of the Encyclopedia of the American Religious Experience (1988) and the Encyclopedia of American Social History (1993).
         
         
         
            
               Partisans and Progressives: Private Interest and Public Policy in 
                            Illinois
                        , 1870–1922. By Thomas R. Pegram. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1992. Pp. xiv, 297. Notes, bibliography, index. $42.50.)
            Thomas R. Pegram's Partisans and Progressives is an interesting,
                    insightful, and complex analysis of the central elements of political life in 
                        Illinois
                     between 1870 and 1922. In seeking to explain the relative failure of 
                        Illinois
                     reformers, the book raises important questions about progressivism and reform
                    throughout the Midwest and the nation.
            Pegram does not try to profile the characteristics of progressive reformers, describing them simply
                    as middle class people not insensitive to their localistic, religious, or political backgrounds. He
                    concentrates instead on explaining their perspective: a dominating concern with identifying and
                    furthering the public interest, which rested on an assumption of the underlying harmony of society
                    and a belief in the compatibility of efficiency and democracy.
            Rather than write a complete history of 
                        Illinois
                     politics, government, or policy making, the author takes a case study approach. He
                    argues that early efforts to protect consumers or factory laborers failed because of conflicts
                    between different economic interests (large and small farmers, labor and business) and various
                    agencies, levels, and branches of government. According to Pegram, an attempt to pass a
                    "reform" charter for 
                        Chicago
                     in 1905–1907 was defeated by opposition from ethnic groups. Similarly,
                    progressives' efforts to reform schools and public transit in line with their notions of
                    public interest were repulsed by a host of cultural, class, gender, and political rivalries.
            While the array of cultural and economic factors ("marketplace pluralism") competed
                    with progressive notions of the public interest, reformers considered partisanship the major
                    obstacle to furthering the public interest and good government. Their ideal of nonpartisan reform by
                    state government was thwarted by the successful efforts of governors, starting with John Peter
                    Altgeld (1893–1897), to link some reform policies with partisanship, their own political
                    fortunes, and the governorship. Furthermore, the reformers' focus on administrative reform
                    and bureaucracy, especially after 1910, ignored the conflict between efficiency and democracy. Thus,
                    progressives seriously misunderstood the strength and nature of partisanship and failed to
                    distinguish between their interests and the public interest.
            This study is not without weaknesses. It assumes that "reformers" were a coherent
                    and consistent group and that perceptions of "public interest" remained constant.
                    It never examines party organization, governmental (including legislative) structure and behavior,
                    or the meaning of partisanship (as ideology or behavior, and by 
                    whom), and it generally ignores change over time. However, given the significance of
                    Pegram's analysis, these flaws are probably best viewed as challenges in the revitalized
                    study of progressivism which this study so ably encourages.
            PHILIP VANDERMEER is associate
                    professor of history, 
                        Arizona State
                     University, Tempe, and is currently working on a study of the legal profession in the
                    Midwest from the 1820s to the 1920s.
         
         
            
               Dr. George: An Account of the Life of a Country Doctor. By George T. Mitchell.
                    (Carbondale: Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1994. Pp. xv, 359. Illustrations, index. Clothbound,
                    $39.95; paperbound, $19.95.)
            "I have attempted to paint a picture of my life with words," writes Dr. George T.
                    Mitchell (1914– ) near the end of this large book (p. 345). The only child of a country
                    doctor and a nurse at 
                  Marshall, Illinois
                (a few miles west of 
                        Terre Haute
                    ), 
                        Mitchell
                     earned a B.S. degree in mechanical engineering from Purdue and an M.D. from George
                    Washington University School of Medicine. At the close of his internship at Methodist Hospital in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1941 he married a nurse, Mildred Miller, then joined the medical corps of the Army
                    Air Corps and spent most of World War II as an administrator in army hospitals in southern 
                        California
                    .
            More than two-thirds of the book is about 
                        Mitchell
                    's medical education and life up to this point (including episodes with two
                    legendary figures in Indiana medicine, Dr. Goethe Link and Dean Willis D. Gatch of the Indiana
                    University School of Medicine). Although 
                        Mitchell
                    's approach tends to be anecdotal, poignant details impel the reader forward.
            After the war 
                        Mitchell
                     wanted to become a resident in orthopedic surgery in an 
                        Indianapolis
                     hospital to prepare himself for a career in that specialty in the same city.
                    Circumstances carried the Mitchells back to Marshall where "Dr. George," as he is
                    known, has been a country doctor ever since. That label differentiated him from other doctors and
                    dentists named 
                        Mitchell
                     and continues to bestow affection.
            Chapters 15, 16, 17, and 21 document changing patterns of disease 
                        Mitchell
                     has encountered during the past half century and the adaptations he has made in his
                    medical practice. Geography, accidents, births, and deaths remained constants as did impossible
                    hours for the doctor until the advent of a medical center in the community and emergency medical
                    technicians. Through continuity and change 
                        Mitchell
                     learned much "by just keeping my head, by observing, and by consulting with
                    others more knowledgeable" (p. 255). His chief regret is that he did not spend more time
                    with his family: "Our daughters tell me they didn't know me during their
                    childhood" (p. 349).
            
            During the 1960s 
                        Mitchell
                     became involved with the 
                        Illinois State
                     Medical Society's political action activities which brought him into contact
                    with Senator Everett Dirksen. 
                        Mitchell
                     alleges to report, verbatim and within quotation marks, the very words Dirksen used in
                    private meetings with him. If 
                        Mitchell
                     has had thoughts which might eclipse the euphoria he experienced from being courted by
                    Richard M. Nixon at the Republican National Conventions of 1968 and 1972, he does not share them
                    with his readers.
            
               
                        Mitchell
                     is at his best when writing about medicine. He writes with gusto about the antics of
                    medical students, with sensitivity about his patients, and with humility about his own limitations
                    and accomplishments.
            People interested in the practice of medicine in rural America should read this book. Dr. George would be more useful to researchers if it had a more thorough index. For
                    example, only two diseases (influenza and poliomyelitis) are indexed, but sections on many more
                    appear in the text. The Department of Medical Humanities at Southern Illinois University School of
                    Medicine in 
                        Springfield
                     is to be commended for bringing out this volume.
            PETER T. HARSTAD is executive director of the Indiana
                    Historical Society. He has published several articles and chapters on health conditions and the
                    practice of medicine on the midwestern frontier. His current research focuses on the reasons why
                    this region developed modern health care systems and leading medical schools so rapidly.
         
         
            
               Choosing Truman: The Democratic Convention of 1944. By Robert H. Ferrell. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1994. Pp. xiii, 137. Notes, bibliography, index. $24.95.)
            One of the most important nominating conventions in the history of the Democratic party occurred in
                    1944. The party dumped a sitting vice-president who wanted very much to be renominated, did so with
                    the acquiescence of the incumbent president, and changed the direction of American history. Robert
                    H. Ferrell, professor emeritus at Indiana University and noted Truman scholar, has provided the most
                    extensive account to date of that remarkable episode.
            Ferrell's major thesis is implicit in his title: Senator Harry S. Truman did not back into
                    the nomination. He was chosen—not simply by party leaders but by President Franklin D.
                    Roosevelt himself, after the unwell FDR belatedly turned his attention to the vice-presidential
                    problem. A subsidiary thesis is that Truman was less passive than he later protested, quietly did
                    what little he could to maneuver for the nomination, and knew that it would likely take him to the
                    presidency.
            Ferrell writes "court history of a type that would have been recognized by chroniclers of
                    the doings and intrigues of the powerful  at least since
                    Machiavelli and Shakespeare. A terminally stricken king (FDR) is surrounded by powerful retainers
                    (party officials, political bosses), and eager aspirants to his throne. Among the latter are a crown
                    prince who has fallen out of favor (Vice-president Henry A. Wallace), ambitious dukes (Senators
                    Truman and Alben Barkley, Speaker Sam Rayburn), and assorted lords of the kingdom (Mobilization
                    Director James F. Byrnes, Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas). From time to time, a gleam of
                    light flashes from a stiletto; conspirators plot their courses and maneuver indirectly; the old
                    ruler encourages the most devious of the ambitious, keeps his counsel until the last moment, then
                    lays his hands on the most worthy aspirant.
            Whether set in 
                        Rome
                     in 44 B.C. or in the 
                        United States
                     in 1944, this sort of story is filled with human interest and possesses overtones of
                    tragedy. It also poses legitimate scholarly questions. No one has researched this particular problem
                    as intensively as Ferrell. Still, no scholar will ever be certain about what was going through
                    Roosevelt's mind, or Truman's, because neither left the necessary documentation.
                    Nor will we ever know definitively whether a key letter from Roosevelt to Robert Hannegan was
                    altered to place Truman's name ahead of Douglas's. Other arcane details appear
                    equally irretrievable.
            Broader questions go unasked. One suspects that in the end Truman became the vice-presidential
                    nominee less because of the intrigues of public men than because his political profile met the needs
                    of his party and the nation. One wishes Ferrell had more to say about this possibility.
            ALONZO L. HMBY is professor of history, 
                        Ohio
                     University, 
                        Athens
                    .
         
         
            
               History from the Heart: Quilt Paths Across 
                            Illinois
                        
               . By E. Duane Elbert and Rachel Kamm Elbert. (
                  Nashville, Tenn.
               : Rutledge Hill Press, 1993. Pp. xii, 242. Illustrations, map, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $34.95.)
            Over the last decade a series of books associated with state quilt research projects have appeared.
                    Taken as a group, these books detail the varied quilts that have found their way into attics, onto
                    beds, onto walls, and into museums. They also explore the role quilts have played in the lives of
                    women. In so doing, these books have showcased the ways in which quilts represent historical
                    documents. History from the Heart falls squarely within this tradition.
            According to E. Duane Elbert and Rachel Kamm Elbert, "quilts are history; they are the
                    quiet, personal statements of our nation's unsung heroines and heroes" (p. 13).
                    Drawing upon their knowledge of 
                        Illinois
                     history, the information gained from numerous quilt registration days, and the
                    published work of other quilt researchers,  the Elberts explore
                    the role quilts play in both the historical and contemporary life of the state. In their journey
                    across the quilt landscape of 
                        Illinois
                     they discuss migration to 
                        Illinois
                    , ethnic diversity, quilts as family documents, nontraditional quilts and quilters,
                    quilt patterns, and the commercialization of quiltmaking. The authors conclude their work with a
                    call to arms, imploring their readers to help preserve the quilt history of 
                        Illinois
                    .
            Overall, History from the Heart is well researched and well written. The quilts and
                    photographs—both historical and contemporary—have reproduced well, and they
                    adequately illustrate the story the authors want to tell. The chapters on ethnic quilts,
                    non-traditional quilts, and quilt patterns are particularly strong. Not only do these chapters
                    contain interesting information about particular quilts and quiltmakers, they effectively link
                    activities in 
                        Illinois
                     to events and influences important outside the state.
            The book suffers, however, from some serious shortcomings. Although the point about the neglect of
                    quilts as documents is well taken, the authors repeat it so often that the strongest thread holding
                    the story together is their continuous, plaintive, and tiresome wail. While the quilts reproduced in
                    the book are integrated into the text both as documents and illustrations, the photographs are not.
                    The authors fall into the common practice of using photographs as illustrations disembodied from the
                    text. This practice diminishes the effectiveness of individual images and robs the text of useful
                    information. And finally, the Elberts clearly borrow a phrase—a 
                  BLANCHE OLIVE FUNKHOUSER ELBERT DISPLAYS HER
                            STATE FAIR RIBBONS
                      QUILT
                            WHICH WON ITS OWN BLUE RIBBON
                            AT
                            THE 1968 ILLINOIS STATE FAIR
                  
               
                    
                    
                  BOB
                            AND AUDREY MAURICE
                            AT WORK
                            ON
                            A QUILT
                  
                "culture at risk"—from the title of a book published by an
                    organization they are quite familiar with, and they do not provide any citation. Obviously the
                    phrase has been used loosely in a variety of contexts, and, as a result, the Elberts felt justified
                    in using it as common property. Although the content of Charles Phillips and Patricia
                    Hogan's A Culture at Risk (1984) is different from that of History from the Heart, the context and intended meaning is virtually the same.
            PATRICIA MOONEY-MELVIN is associate
                    professor of history and director of the Public History Program at Loyola University, 
                        Chicago
                    . She curated a show, "
                        Ohio
                     Quilts and Quilters 1800–1981" at The College of Wooster,
                            
                  Wooster, Ohio
               , in 1981, authored a technical guide, "Tracing the
                    Quiltmaker," for the American Quilt Study Group, and has lectured on quilt
                history.
         
         
            
               Indian Names on 
                            Wisconsin
                        's Map. By Virgil J. Vogel. (
                        Madison
                    : University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1991. Pp. xvii, 323. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    Clothbound, $42.50; paper-bound, $19.95.)
            Virgil J. Vogel identifies Indian tribal, personal, descriptive, commemorative, and cultural names on
                    today's maps of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Complexity confronts any study of Indian place names; there are at least fifteen
                    variant spellings of the state's name, ranging from Mesconsin to Ouisconsens to Quisconsing
                    to Wiskonsin, with attribution  made to five Indian languages
                    and to French. Beyond general acceptance that the name belongs to the river, several definitions of
                    the word itself have been suggested. Scholars may never find conclusive evidence for a particular
                    spelling, attribution, or meaning of the word 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
            The initial Indian inhabitants gave names to their villages and to geographic features. Successive
                    occupants kept some of the names and modified or replaced others. When European-American explorers,
                    missionaries, traders, armies, and settlers heard and recorded these Indian words, they created an
                    orthographic jumble of sorts. Indiana readers will recognize, for example, that Wea and Ouia are the
                    same word, as are Maumee and Miami.
            From Algonquin Park to Winnebago Point, 
                        Wisconsin
                    's maps bear not only names of tribes who resided there but also of some
                    non-resident tribes such as the Seneca. Most Indian personal names were put on the map by whites.
                    Chiefs and warriors lead the list; but the other names vary and include a Quebec maiden candidate
                    for Catholic sainthood and subject often biographies in six languages; mixed-blood French-Indian
                    names; and names taken from Hiawatha and other nineteenth-century literature.
            The Indians' material cultures and their spirit worlds are reflected in many of
                    today's place names, as are flora and fauna. 
                        Wisconsin
                     also borrowed names from other places; the name 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , for example, came to 
                        Wisconsin
                     from Indiana. Other borrowed place names were brought by Mexican War veterans, and
                    eleven more Indian-derived names came from other states. There are even contrived pseudo-Indian
                    names that are not recognizable words in any language.
            Vogel's book is more than a listing-glossary or gazetteer. Names are posited in a simple
                    classification system and are subjected to historical scrutiny, linguistic analysis, and anecdotal
                    explanation. In cases where conjecture is necessary, Vogel's guesses are well informed.
                    Furthermore, the book is good reading.
            The documentation and bibliography are extensive and helpful, although the index should be expanded
                    to include all of the place names in the text. Beyond Vogel's previously published volumes
                    on 
                        Illinois
                     (1963), 
                        Iowa
                     (1983), and 
                        Michigan
                     (1986), 
                        Wisconsin
                     is the best.
            
               Indian Names on 
                            Wisconsin
                        's Map could well serve as a model for Indiana. Jacob Piatt
                    Dunn's True Indian Stories, with a Glossary of Indiana Indian Names
                    (1908) and Ronald Baker and Marvin Carmony's Indiana Place Names (1975)
                    have introduced the subject.
            DWIGHT L. SMITH is professor emeritus of history, Miami
                    University, 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               . He has written primarily about the frontier of the Old
                    Northwest, the American West, and the Canadian West. His most recent book is Survival
                        on a Westward Trek, 1858–1859 (1989).
         
         
         
            
               Race, Ethnicity, and Urbanization: Selected Essays. By Howard N. Rabinowitz. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1994. Pp. xii, 359. Notes, tables, index. $42.50.)
            New ideas in American social history often get presented in juxtaposition to received scholarship.
                    This has been the case particularly for the last three decades, when the author of each new insight
                    seems to be at war with hisher progenitors. The situation has contributed to an air of
                    contentiousness in the field, a competitiveness with a sharp edge. Apart from the social discomfort
                    this might engender, it has also cut many historians loose from their moorings, weakening the
                    foundations of collective historical knowledge.
            In this vein, it is refreshing to be able to plunge deeply into Howard N. Rabinowitz's work.
                    He self-consciously grounds himself in the work of scholars of an earlier generation, such as C.
                    Vann Woodward, John Hope Franklin, and Richard Wade. He sees himself standing on their shoulders
                    even as he takes up the key questions raised by the "new" social history
                    pertaining to race, ethnicity, and class.
            The essays in this collection appeared in some of the most respected journals in American history
                    between the early 1970s and the late 1980s. The University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press has performed a service for students of American history by bringing these essays
                    together and making them available within the covers of a single book. Not only have the publishers
                    made a richness of detail and a sharpness of insight accessible, but, by publishing these essays
                    together, they have raised the level of discussion to include the methodology and framework of
                    social history.
            Rabinowitz's central thesis in his key work is that the pattern of race relations in the
                    post-Civil War South—in public institutions of education and social welfare, in political
                    life, and in social life—flowed from exclusion to segregation. In exploring this dynamic,
                    he contends that segregation itself cannot be understood as an imposition from on high by a
                    conservative white elite. To the contrary, he argues that African Americans themselves, together
                    with their white Republican allies, helped push southern race relations in this direction by
                    organizing their religious and social lives; by demanding control over classrooms, schools, and
                    other public institutions from almshouses to insane asylums; by demanding access to services, such
                    as streetcars, from which they had once been locked out; and, typically, by settling for separate
                    access to those services.
            Rabinowitz's thesis, which is grounded solidly in careful historical research, is presented
                    in several of the essays in this collection ("From Exclusion to Segregation: Health and
                    Welfare Services for Southern Blacks"; "Half a Loaf The Shift from White to Black
                    Teachers in the Negro Schools of the Urban South, 1865–1890"; and  "Three Reconstruction Leaders: Blanche K. Bruce, Robert Brown
                    Elliott, and Holland Thompson"), as well as his major book, Race Relations in
                        the Urban South, 1865–1890 (1978). In the introductory essay to the collection
                    under review (which is the only essay not published elsewhere), Rabinowitz rejects any intimation
                    that his thesis is politically problematic or "incorrect." It is here that he most
                    explicitly ties himself to earlier generations of historians. "I'm an empiricist
                    at heart," he writes, "and the highest compliment I can pay an author is that he
                    or she displays a common sense based on a thorough reading of the sources" (p. 15).
            Yet Rabinowitz sells himself short, for he is far more than "an empiricist." These
                    essays not only sketch a framework for understanding the key dynamics of race relations in the
                    post—Civil War South, but also present a model of historical scholarship—built
                    upon collective knowledge constructed over generations of work, informed by broad questions, and
                    based upon careful work in historical archives—which is hard to surpass. Whether the
                    reader is an experienced historian or a new student who wants to know what
                    "history" is, this collection offers itself as a worthwhile read.
            PETER RACHLEFF is associate professor of history at
                    Macalester College, 
                  St. Paul, Minnesota
               . He is the author of Black Labor in
                                
                     Richmond, Virginia
                  , 1865–1890 (1989).
         
         
            
               Communication and Change in American Religious History. Edited By Leonard I.
                    Sweet. (
                  Grand Rapids, Mich.
               : William B. Eerd-mans Publishing Company, 1993. Pp. vi, 481.
                    Notes. Paper-bound, $24.99.)
            This is a timely collection of essays dealing with the interaction of the media and religion
                    throughout American history. It is especially opportune because in recent years we have been
                    reminded of the power and influence that the electronic church has been able to exercise in national
                    and local politics as well as in the controversies surrounding moral and ethical issues. But this is
                    not another book taking conservative preachers to task, although it does have relevance for
                    understanding the close connection between religious leaders and the successful manipulation of
                    available media, whether print, visual, or electronic. Nor is it a "how-to" book,
                    providing strategies or practical suggestions for those who seek to use the media effectively. It
                    is, as its title accurately states, a collection of historical essays.
            The essayists are a distinguished group of historians, most of whom are well known in the field.
                    Several draw on research that they have published elsewhere in fuller form. For example, Harry S.
                    Stout writes about George Whitefield, A. Gregory Schneider about the domestication of American
                    Methodism, James H. Moor  head about the millennium in the
                    nineteenth century, and David Edwin Harrell, Jr., about Oral Roberts. Yet all of these authors and
                    the other essayists, too, focus on the ways in which changes in communication technology have
                    affected religion and, in turn, have been used by religious groups to advance their causes.
            Readers familiar with Leonard I. Sweet's previous publications will recognize a striking
                    parallel between this volume and the collection of essays he edited earlier entitled The Evangelical Tradition in America (1984). That volume also began with a major
                    historiographical essay by Sweet himself, surveying the scholarly literature on evangelicalism. In
                    this new collection Sweet begins with a ninety-page "Historiographical Probe"
                    divided between discussion of communications in a print culture and in an electronic culture. In his
                    essay he evaluates an immense amount of historical and theoretical literature, and he identifies a
                    full agenda for future investigation.
            It is not completely inappropriate to see this volume as an extension of Sweet's earlier
                    publication on the Evangelical Tradition. He has, for example, devoted a third of
                    his opening essay to an examination of the evangelical Protestants' mastery of
                    "the media and meanings of American antebellum culture" (p. 20). His discussion of
                    communications in the electronic age also features the opportunistic use of the new media by
                    evangelical preachers. Sweet's essay—although at times a bit
                    precious—serves a very valuable purpose, even if one may not agree with all of his
                    judgments concerning individual authors and publications.
            Among the most instructive contributions in this collection is the essay by David Paul Nord dealing
                    with the relationship between religious publishing and marketing practices in the early nineteenth
                    century. Nord demonstrates the ways in which evangelical publishers exploited the market revolution
                    of the day and, in turn, became pioneers in the development of systematic management practices.
                    Newcomer Ronald J. Zboray introduces readers to a category of publication not familiar to many, the
                    "story papers," and shows how the impact of advancing technology created new
                    communities among the readers of these "newspapers." The closing section of the
                    volume is a "Bibliographical Probe" on "American Christianity and the
                    History of Communication" compiled by Elmer J. O'Brien. This 125-page annotated
                    bibliography is divided into chronological periods and is both potentially useful for future
                    researchers and limited because O'Brien is vague about the principles of selection.
            STEPHEN J. STEIN is professor and chair of the Department
                    of Religious Studies, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . He is currently preparing an edition of The Biblical Writings of Jonathan
                        Edwards.
         
         
         
            
               Restoring the Faith: The Assemblies of God, Pentecostalism, and American
                    Culture. By Edith L. Blumhofer. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1993. Pp. x, 281. Notes, illustrations, bibliographic note, index. Clothbound,
                    $42.50; paperbound, $17.95.)
            Little did college student Agnes Ozman know when she spoke in tongues in 
                  Topeka, Kansas
               ,
                    on the first Friday night in January, 1901, that historians would count that evening as the
                    beginning of the Pentecostal movement in the 
                        United States
                    . Pentecostalism, the largest new North American religious movement in the twentieth
                    century, is difficult to delineate. It consists of a number of Protestant denominations,
                    "charismatic" members of non-Pentecostal denominations (including Roman
                    Catholics), small rural congregations, mega-churches, local faith healers, and the vast evangelistic
                    empires of Jim and Tammy Bakker and Jimmy Swaggert. For the purposes of this study of the Assemblies
                    of God, the largest single Pentecostal denomination, Edith L. Blumhofer defines Pentecostalism
                    theologically: "They agree that the gifts of the Holy Spirit described in the New Testament
                    should operate in the church today," and "that Christians should experience a
                    distinct ‘filling’ or ‘baptism’ with the Holy
                    Spirit" (p. 1.). Blumhofer's goal is not only to write a denominational history of
                    the Assemblies of God but also to use the Assemblies of God as an extended case study of the ways in
                    which "Pentecostal people have related to American culture" (p. 8).
            Although Blumhofer's denominational history is precise and readable, this study shines
                    brightest when it takes up cultural issues at midcentury. After 1940, the Assemblies of God and its
                    people had to come to terms with neo-evangelicalism, the civil rights movement, new premillenial and
                    healing revivals (Oral Roberts among them), the ecumenical movement, the charismatic movement,
                    increasing prosperity, the social chaos of the 1960s, feminism, new immigration, scandals involving
                    denominational leaders, pop culture, and the media. Blumhofer concludes that the tension between
                    Pentecostals' original identity as a band of outsiders restoring the true church, on one
                    hand, and the denomination's desire to expand and its members' upward mobility and
                    infatuation with a parallel Christian pop culture (from Christian rock to diet programs), on the
                    other, has tipped toward cultural accommodation. She argues convincingly that this denomination
                    faces the same stagnation as the mainstream.
            The scope of this study is impressive; yet it would benefit from more descriptions, examples, and
                    excerpts from primary materials that convey the power of Pentecostalism as a religious movement, the
                    content and tone of its preaching and rituals, and more knowledge of local Assemblies of God
                    congregations.
            BETTY A. DEBERG teaches in the
                    Department of Theology, 
                        Valparaiso
                     University, 
                        Valparaiso
                    , Indiana. She is currently working on a book about the denominational identity of
                    Protestant women.
         
         
         
            
               Forging History: The Detection of Fake Letters & Documents. By Kenneth
                    W. Rendell. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1994. Pp. vi, 171. Illustrations, selected bibliography, index.
                    $24.95.)
            This is a fascinating and informative book by an internationally recognized expert and dealer in rare
                    historical documents. At the outset of the book Kenneth W. Rendell explains and illustrates the
                    different ways in which experts detect frauds by the meticulous analysis of handwriting. In
                    illustration after illustration he shows that under a microscope the formation of letters, the
                    lifting of the pen, the extent of pressure, and the nature of an individual writing instrument can
                    betray the work of a forger. Rendell also explains the difference in the methods of the document
                    examiner who testifies in court and the document dealer who validates what he sells. (Never buy
                    anything without a lifetime guarantee.) Ironically, this book could serve as a guide to forgers on
                    ways to avoid detection.
            The reader will be intrigued by and will enjoy studying the book's illustrations and trying
                    to see the extent of the differences in each of the examples given. Rendell provides samples of the
                    genuine and forged hands of George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, Adolph Hitler, and many others. He
                    also imparts fascinating information on ink, paper, watermarks, and other pieces of physical
                    evidence.
            The initial technical chapters may be off-putting to the lay person, but when Rendell discusses great
                    forgeries and recent frauds, it becomes clear why he has included them: the science and art of
                    detection cannot be understood or appreciated without an explanation of technical materials. Most
                    readers will be interested in famous recent forgeries, and here Rendell is excellent as he writes
                    about episodes in which he participated and people he has known. The history of the spurious Hitler
                    diaries; the astonishing and tragic story of the fraudulent Mormon documents that shook that church;
                    and the tale of Jack the Ripper, where Rendell played a role in exposing the forgeries, are in
                    themselves worth the cost of the book.
            Rendell sounds a tad self-serving in depicting his role in these events, but not without some
                    justification. By-and-large, he deserves credit for what he has accomplished. Rendell has few kind
                    words for historians who, he feels, are too easily duped; they should leave validation to experts.
                    What comes through clearly in the book is that forgers are human: they make mistakes and they will
                    be found out. The simplest mistake they make, he observes, is the anachronism—the use of
                    words and ideas that do not fit together chronologically. This reviewer, with eyes sensitized to
                    that particular flaw, cannot resist pointing out that Rendell, who is no forger,  writes of "the 
                        United States
                     in the late 1750s" (p. 36)! No historian worth his salt would make that error.
            MARTIN RIDGE is professor of history at the 
                        California
                     Institute of Technology, Pasadena, and Senior Research Associate in the 
                        Huntington
                     Library, 
                  San Marino, California
               . He is past president of the Western History
                    Association and author of Atlas of American Frontiers (1993).
         
         
            
               The Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art: Culture Comes to 
                            Kansas City
                        
               . By Kristie C. Wolferman. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1993. Pp. viii, 225. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            The history of American art museums is, in many respects, the history of American civic pride, of
                    American grand tourists gaining awareness of and emulating European culture, and of American private
                    patronage. No such history is more fascinating or impressive than that of the Nelson-Atkins Museum
                    of Art in 
                        Kansas City
                    . That history is admirably recounted by Kristie C. Wolferman in her recently published
                    book, written for the sixtieth anniversary of the museum. Wolferman relates how, between 1911 and
                    1933, the aspirations of Mary Atkins and William Rockhill Nelson produced one of the finest civic
                    art museums in the country. It was an astonishing accomplishment: the trustees of the Atkins and
                    Nelson estates planned, designed, and built the museum even before a real collection had been
                    created.
            The trustees began a serious collection just a few years before the museum was due to open in 1933. A
                    combination of common sense, good taste, ambition, and intelligence enabled this remarkable group of
                    men and women to assemble important works by great masters and equally important great works by then
                    lesser known figures. When the museum did open, the collections included masterpieces of European
                    and Eastern cultures set in a grand, neoclassically designed structure embellished with particularly
                    fine landscaping of the kind that had long been the hallmark of 
                        Kansas City
                    's urban design.
            Wolferman recounts the story of the museum clearly and concisely. Her introduction places the
                    development of the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art within the context of American museums in general.
                    Her first chapter is devoted to Atkins, whose bequest of one million dollars started the project. A
                    rather more lengthy chapter is devoted to the fascinating character of Nelson, who should be of
                    interest to Hoosiers since his roots lie in Indiana: he received his degree at Notre
                    Dame, and he lived and practiced law in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .
            Anyone interested in midwestern history cannot fail to enjoy this book, which focuses on one of the
                    Midwest's major institutions.  Those who love art and
                    art museums will find Wolferman's account especially interesting. One could only wish for a
                    few color illustrations to embellish this worthwhile text.
            ADELHEID M. GEALT has served as director of the Indiana
                    University Art Museum for the past five years. Prior to that, she was curator of western art at the
                    same institution.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
