
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 5, Issue 3, pages 85-135. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:5+issue:3+year:1909&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            JAMES HUGHES.
            
                    BY H. C. DUNCAN.
                
            [A paper read before the 
                        Monroe County
                     Historical Society, December, 1908.]
            OF the many prominent men who have lived in 
                        Bloomington
                     –and there have been many–Judge Hughes was, I
                    think, at once the most unique and picturesque character of them all. Of his
                    early life I know but little. He came here when a child with his mother from 
                        Maryland
                    ; his father never lived in this State. His mother died when he was
                    a child. The story goes that his future wife, then married, took him in her
                    arms, and carried him to see his mother as she lay in her coffin. He had quite a
                    number of relatives–some of prominence, some
                    otherwise–with whom he lived until manhood. When a young man, he was
                    appointed to West Point, where he remained a good student, well up in his
                    classes, until near his graduation, but as he had concluded he would not enter
                    the army, he resigned, giving as his excuse that he did not think any man should
                    be educated at the expense of the Government when he did not expect to follow
                    the profession of arms. It appears, though, that this conclusion was reached
                    only after he had obtained about all the benefits that institution afforded.
            After leaving West Point he studied law, and had acquired some reputation as a
                    lawyer, when, near the close of the Mexican war, he was appointed a lieutenant
                    in the Tenth Regulars. This was a sort of political regiment, raised near the
                    cessation of hostilities, which got no nearer the front than 
                        New Orleans
                    . Judge Hughes was a Democrat of the straightest sect, and an ardent
                    supporter of Polk's administration. The regiment was recruited almost,
                    if not wholly, in Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    , and  was officered entirely by
                    Democratic politicians. As nearly all had political aspirations, there was more
                    of a consuming desire to court and receive the approbation of the administration
                    and the party than to advance the cause on the field, jealousies arose which
                    materially detracted from the regiment's efficiency, and it was soon
                    mustered out. There are some members of the regiment yet living in this
                    locality.
            Judge Hughes, on the return of peace, returned to this place and began the
                    practice of law. He soon had an extensive practice for that day. As was then the
                    custom with the best lawyers, he traveled the circuit, which was large,
                    consisting' of eight counties, viz.: 
                  Vigo, Sullivan, Greene, Owen, Putnam, Clay, Morgan
                and 
                        Monroe
                    . Court sat but twice a year in each county; the larger counties,
                    like 
                  Vigo, Putnam
                and 
                        Sullivan
                    , had two weeks, while the smaller ones, such as
                            
                  Owen, Monroe
                and 
                        Clay
                    , had but one week. The judge would start out, followed by the
                    lawyers, and the whole circuit would be frequently traversed before they went
                    home. They all stopped at the "tavern," received and accepted
                    such accommodations as could there be had, took their employment after arriving
                    at the county seat, and, if possible, collected their fees before leaving. Judge
                    Hughes was thus brought into contact with and met the very best legal minds of
                    the circuit. The opportunities for investigating questions were meager, the
                    citation of authorities few, but the underlying principles of the law were well
                    in hand, so that the law was as ably presented, but with less consumption of
                    time and citation of authorities than at the present. Outside of the circuit
                    Judge Hughes had quite a clientage, and for a considerable time maintained an
                    office at 
                        Bedford
                    .
            In 1852 he was an aspirant for the nomination for judge on the Democratic ticket.
                    It early appeared that Judge D. R. Eckle, of 
                        Putnam
                     county, an old-time, old-fashioned lawyer, it is said, well
                    grounded in the principles of the common law, but profoundly ignorant of the
                    statutes and the decisions of the courts, would carry off the prize of the
                    nomination. So Hughes moved into a higher and more dignified atmosphere,
                    announcing that the judiciary should be divorced from politics, and accordingly
                    appealed to the people to assist him in its elevation by electing him, which  was done by a very respectable majority. The
                    whole circuit was Democratic, with hardly an opposition county in it, but by a
                    political freak he was elected. During his canvass and for some time prior, he
                    was the editor of a Democratic paper which espoused the cause of a non-partisan
                    judiciary, and incidentally his own cause, with fearful, forcible and convincing
                    rhetoric.
            Judge Hughes was a profound lawyer. It is doubtful if there was a better one in
                    this part of the State. As a judge he was upright, bold, courageous and
                    tyrannical. He was fearful of public opinion, but persuaded himself that he was
                    not. A diary –or rather a memorandum of his proceedings at certain
                    courts, evidently made after the adjournment–was for some time in my
                    possession. In that he told of certain statutes he had construed, and how he had
                    ruled on certain questions, in which he would say that, while he was convinced
                    that he was right, he was still fearful he had made a mistake, saying that
                    certain of his friends and prominent persons of the vicinity, naming them, had
                    found fault with his rulings and had attributed them to certain influences.
            With a mind as clear as a bell, elegant diction, a close student and a good
                    reasoner, his decisions met with approbation from all good, disinterested
                    people. His work was peculiarly vexatious and irksome. Educated and trained in
                    the rules of pleading and practice of the common law–the outgrowth
                    and the wisdom of years of the very best legal minds–he was called
                    upon to construe the newly adopted code, with all of its innovations and
                    crudities. Of a natural tyrannical and overbearing disposition, augmented by a
                    West Point education and service as an officer in the regular army, he ruled the
                    bar and controlled the proceedings with a rod of iron. The court was supreme,
                    and he was the court. He enforced order, and demanded and procured the proper
                    respect for the court. He had his likes and dislikes– generally
                    dislikes–among the bar. Some members he could hardly endure, others
                    were tolerated after a fashion, and others had his confidence and esteem. To
                    take a change of venue from him–now a common thing–I think
                    much too common–was by him considered a personal affront. In the book
                    to which I refer, he speaks of a lawyer who is yet living, for whom he had the
                    most supreme contempt and often showed it. Judge Hughes ruled  against him. This lawyer prepared and had his
                    client swear to an affidavit for a change of judge on account of bias and
                    prejudice. The judge says in his book: "I never knew him; did not know
                    there was such a man until I came across his name on the docket-, did -not know
                    his name, residence, politics or religion, therefore could not have any bias or
                    prejudice against him." He then says he called in the grand jury and
                    instructed them especially with reference to the law governing perjury and
                    subornation of perjury, and directed the grand jury especially to investigate
                    the matter, and, if the facts warranted, to return indictments. He then adds
                    practically these words: "Nothing came of it, and I think now it was a
                    mistake."
            Judge Claypool, who succeeded him, told me this story. In those days often the
                    judge would be late in arriving at court, and it had grown the custom for the
                    proper officers to meet, elect a judge pro tern., who would call, impanel and
                    charge the grand jury, call the docket, attend to formal matters and have them
                    all out of the way, so that the regular judge, on arrival, could proceed with
                    the business. It was no inconvenience to the local authorities, relieved the
                    judge of much routine work, expedited the business of court, and was considered
                    an accommodation all around, but especially to the regular judge.
                    "Court week" came at 
                        Spencer
                    . The proper officers appointed Judge Franklin, now living, an
                    honored citizen of the State, and afterward more than once honored by an
                    election to the bench. Judge Hughes had a most intense dislike for
                    him–almost amounting to hatred. Judge Franklin called and instructed
                    the grand jury and did other routine work, when about eleven o'clock
                    Judge Hughes arrived. Some one congratulated him on what had been done and the
                    dispatch made with the business during his absence. Judge Franklin was still on
                    the bench when Judge Hughes entered and walked down the aisle with the dignity
                    of a Roman senator. Judge Franklin vacated and spoke to Judge Hughes, who never
                    even recognized him. He mounted the bench and called to the sheriff to
                    "open court." This the sheriff did in a half-hearted,
                    apologetic way. "Mr. Sheriff, call the grand jury," said
                    Hughes. The clerk slipped up and whispered that the grand jury had already been
                    organized and instructed. The judge waited for the  sheriff to act, turned again to him and said:
                    "Mr. Sheriff, call the grand jury." That official went to
                    their room, got the bailiff and the twelve men and marched them down in front,
                    where they were again called by name, tried, sworn and charged as if nothing had
                    been done.
            When he was on the bench nearly all the traveling was by carriage or on
                    horseback. About that time the 
                        Indianapolis
                     & 
                        Terre Haute
                     Railroad, now a part of the Vandalia, was built. He started to go
                    from 
                        Greencastle
                     to 
                        Brazil
                     by rail, but was a little late, and, with a railroad's
                    usual perverseness, the train did not wait, but went off and left him. He was
                    not in a good humor, but drove directly to Bowling Green, then the county seat.
                    At that time that road was largely in evidence in the courts. The first thing on
                    opening court, without any of the preliminaries of impanelling the grand
                    jury–then always the first thing–he called the docket and
                    entered two or three defaults against the road, when some member of the bar
                    suggested that counsel would be in soon and it would be well to wait. He quietly
                    responded: "The railroad does not wait on the court, and the court will
                    not wait on the railroad," and went ahead dismissing cases and taking
                    defaults against the railroad company.
            His career on the bench was rather stormy. The bar was disposed to be combative,
                    and resented much of his arbitrary methods. They all conceded his ability, his
                    integrity, his knowledge of the law, and the soundness of his judgment. These
                    were seldom, if ever, called in question, but his tyranny was galling.
            In 1856 he was nominated by the Democratic party for Congress from the then third
                    district, extending from here to 
                        Switzerland County
                     on the Ohio river. In 1854 his implacable
                    enemy, George Grundy Dunn, of 
                        Bedford
                    , had been nominated by the remnant of the old Whig party, and was
                    by the "Know Nothings" elected. The district was strongly
                    Democratic. Hughes put himself in training to beat his old enemy, but the seeds
                    of a wasting disease had been sown by the extraoridnary labors of
                    Dunn's canvass, and he was unable to make the race for re-election.
                    John A. Hendricks, afterward colonel of the Twenty-second Indiana regiment, and
                    killed at the battle of Pea Ridge, was nominated against him, but after a joint
                    canvass in almost every township  in the
                    district, and in which it is said Hendricks was worsted, the latter went down in
                    defeat. That was in the early days of the slavery trouble, finally culminating
                    in the Civil War. Hughes was a Southerner by birth and education. His political
                    affiliations had all been with the Democratic party. In this State he was one of
                    its recognized leaders. That party, long in power, had become factional, with
                    two wings, known as the Bright and the Wright factions. One was headed by the
                    Bright family and the other by Joseph A. Wright. They had worked with reasonable
                    harmony in the campaign of 1856. Buchanan had carried the State and the
                    Legislature was Democratic. Both Bright and Wright were aspiring to leadership;
                    both wanted to go to the 
                        United States
                     Senate; a rupture was imminent, and Judge Hughes was called from 
                        Bloomington
                    , and solved the problem by sending Bright to the Senate and
                    extorting from Buchanan a foreign mission for Wright. Hughes took his seat in
                    the very heat of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     trouble, and at once became an administration leader, and tried to
                    force the Lecompton Constitution on the State of 
                        Kansas
                    . In a speech in Congress, delivered March 31, 1858, he used this
                    language: "I said in the presence of many of my constituents, upon a
                    temporary visit to my State, that if every stump in 
                        Kansas
                     were a negro, every tree upon her soil a slave driver, and every
                    twig upon the tree a lash to scourge the negro to his daily toil, I would vote
                    for the admission of 
                        Kansas
                     under the Lecompton Constitution to preserve the" peace of
                    the whole country, and if my constituents did not like it and would let me know
                    it, I would resign." This expressed his views on the slavery question
                    and his attitude toward the free-State people of 
                        Kansas
                    .
            The Republican party in that year for the first time had a national ticket in the
                    field, and his denunciation of the black Republican party and of abolitionism
                    was intense and terrific. A master of invective and sarcasm, he let no
                    opportunity pass of giving that party the most severe castigations at his
                    command.
            In 1858 he was again a candidate for Congress, but the seeds of discord sown by
                    the administration and Douglas Democrats, primarily over the admission of 
                        Kansas
                    , but really over the slavery question, had grown and so disrupted
                    and disorganized the party that he and it went down in defeat.
            
            By reason of his loyalty to the administration, the energy, zeal and ability with
                    which he had fought its battles and with it had gone down, he was by President
                    Buchanan appointed a judge of the Court of Claims to fill the vacancy occasioned
                    by the death of Judge Isaac Blackford, also of Indiana, and one of its former
                    judges of the Supreme Court. While retaining his nominal residence at this
                    place, he really from that time forward made his home in 
                        Washington
                    . He supported Breckenridge and Lane in 1860, but I think took
                    little part in the canvass.
            When Fort Sumpter was fired upon and the Civil War began, he aligned himself on
                    the side of the union and the suppression of rebellion. He lent the whole force
                    of his influence and energy to a vigorous prosecution of the war. He was one of
                    the most pronounced and uncompromising union men in the State. His voice was
                    heard among his old associates and friends pleading for the maintenance of the
                    union and the suppression of the rebellion. His tongue was as bitter, his satire
                    as scathing and his denunciation as intense toward everybody who did not lay
                    aside all previous party affiliations and unqualifiedly join in the suppression
                    of the rebellion and the support of the administration as it had been in former
                    days toward the "black Republicans" and abolitionists. He was
                    one of Governor Morton's most intimate friends and advisers. He ceased
                    to affiliate with the Democratic party, and allied himself with the party for
                    the prosecution of the war. He was on terms of intimacy with President Lincoln
                    and Secretary Stanton, and was frequently called into their councils. Early in
                    the war he resigned from the Court of Claims and entered the practice of law at 
                        Washington
                    .
            Judge Hughes always had political aspirations. Governor Morton was the
                    acknowledged head of the Republican party of this State, and went to the 
                        United States
                     Senate in 1867 without question. Judge Hughes wanted to go.
                    Preparatory to returning to politics, he sought and obtained in 1866 the
                    Republican nomination from this county for the Legislature. He temporarily
                    abandoned his law practice at 
                        Washington
                    –the law firm of 
                  Hughes, Denver
                & 
                        Peck
                    –and went into the campaign with all the enthusiasm and
                    energy of a man of thirty. And such a campaign! Its like was never before seen
                    in this country, and it  is not probable that
                    it ever will be again. This county had always been Democratic, but the war and
                    the attitude of that party toward its prosecution had narrowed the margin until
                    it was small. The bitterness engendered by the war still existed. The soldiers
                    were all–all that were left–at home. Hughes had been a war
                    man, had formerly been a Democrat. He organized for the campaign. He had a glee
                    club which could and did sing all the old war songs, such as "Rally
                    Around the Flag, Boys," '"Tramp, Tramp, Tramp, the
                    Boys Are Marching," "The Old Union Wagon,"
                    "Just Before the Battle, Mother," "Marching Through 
                        Georgia
                    ," "John Brown's Body Lies Mouldering in
                    the Tomb," and many others to which the boys had marched and sung. He
                    got this glee club into a big wagon profusely decorated, drawn by four horses,
                    and prepared for business. He also got a brass cannon–a
                    six-pounder–a squad of artillerymen, old soldiers with team and
                    ammunition, and started out. He spoke in all the towns and half the schoolhouses
                    in the county. His artillery would precede him, firing every few minutes, get to
                    the place appointed, unlimber, fire a half hour, when everybody would come to
                    see the cannon. Then the glee club got in its work. Then Judge Hughes spoke. His
                    speeches were simply wonderful. What is unusual–very unusual for a
                    stump speaker –he never repeated. Dr. McPheeters, a gentleman of rare
                    culture and fine judgment, told me that he heard him at least a dozen times
                    during that campaign, and each speech was independent of the other; that all
                    were convincing models and fit for publication without review or reformation.
                    They all abounded in argument, sarcasm, wit and humor; were elegant,
                    entertaining and captivating. He carried the county, of course.
            That session was a stormy one. The Republican majority was large, Judge Hughes
                    was the recognized leader, and he made the minority feel the weight of his hand.
            The Legislature to be chosen in 1868 would elect a 
                        United States
                     Senator to succeed Governor Hendricks, who had been elected in
                    1863. Judge Hughes was an aspirant, and to advance his interest he was a
                    candidate for and was elected to the State Senate. So was Colonel Cumback, of 
                        Greensburg
                    , who was nominated and elected Lieutenant-'Governor, with
                    the tacit under-  standing among certain
                    politicians that in the event of a Republican Legislature he was to go to the 
                        United States
                     Senate. Colonel Baker was elected Governor, and he too had
                    aspirations. Prior to the convention Cumback had written Baker–and an
                    unwise thing for a politician to do–proposing that he would not
                    contest with him the nomination for Governor if he, Baker, would support him for
                    the Senate. To this Baker replied with considerable warmth, declining to make
                    any pre-election contracts, and stigmatizing the proposal as "indecent
                    and corrupt." The canvass was serene, with apparently no selfish ends
                    to be advanced. Cuimback, in the language of the street, was a hustler, and
                    succeeded in getting the caucus nomination, with enough Republicans staying away
                    to prevent an election. About that time some old, obscure Democrat from one of
                    the back counties offered a very innocent-looking "whereas and
                    resolution" which, though couched in elegant language, was impressive
                    in tone, calling the attention of that body to the alleged existence of the
                    correspondence between Baker and Cumback, and asking that it be furnished for
                    the use and information of the Senate. Then the display of pyrotechnics began.
                    Governor Baker replied there was such correspondence, that it was private, and
                    that the public was not interested. Cumback stood with Governor Baker, insisted
                    it was not compromising or harmful, that he had such a high regard for the
                    Governor that he could not think of embarrassing him by asking its publication,
                    and finally falling back on this expression: "I shall never break the
                    seal of a private correspondence, so help me God." That, he thought,
                    ought to settle it, but Governor Baker waived all questions of etiquette on his
                    part, sent the whole correspondence to the Senate, with a communication that it
                    was subject to the disposal of Colonel Cumback. Everybody wanted to know its
                    contents, and the Lieutenant-Governor was compelled to make it public. While
                    Judge Hughes took no active part in the matter, everybody saw and knew that he
                    directed the whole proceeding. The Legislature balloted from day to day; the
                    caucus stood by Cumback, but enough Republicans scattered their votes to prevent
                    an election. Finally the Democrats voted in a body for Hughes, but enough of his
                    crowd still scattered to prevent an election. That was his last  hope. He procured the defeat of Cumback, but was
                    himself defeated. Subsequently he was very bitter toward some of his Republican
                    friends, who stood with him in the bolt, but went back on him on the ballot. At
                    the next session he affiliated with the Democratic party. He succeeded in paying
                    some old scores, had one man who was legally elected expelled, but outside of
                    this accomplished but little. When the Legislature adjourned he returned to 
                        Washington
                    , resumed the practice of law, seldom visited 
                        Bloomington
                    , taking no part in politics, and in a few years died. His great
                    ambition was to go to the 
                        United States
                     Senate, but his failure to reach that position in 1869 left him a
                    disappointed man with no political following, and closed his political career.
            Judge Hughes was in many -ways a remarkable man. He had strong likes and
                    dislikes. Always an ultra partisan, he was peculiar in that his best friends,
                    and the ones to whom he clung most persistently, belonged to the opposition. Of
                    commanding ability and lofty ambition, he saw others, his inferiors,
                    outstripping him in the political race. To use a homely expression, he always
                    carried a chip on his shoulder. Continually in a quarrel, generally with some
                    one of his own political household, when he got into a quarrel he spared not.
                    One of his weapons was 'the circular. It was an unimportant and
                    insignificant quarrel in which he did not card the public. It was said he kept a
                    book–I shall not give the name by which he called
                    it–alphabetically arranged, in which was set down, with place, date
                    and circumstances, every questionable act of a possible adversary. He was
                    preparing for a controversy. In his early days the county was strongly
                    Democratic. In fact, it was all one way. A few of the old-timers would get
                    together and through the medium of an alleged convention pass the offices
                    around. In this Hughes was not taken into account. He wanted some office which
                    would take him from 
                        Bloomington
                    –possibly a foreign appointment, and it was with his
                    party friends, as it was with Lincoln, "the foreigner, the
                    better," so they all gave him letters of commendation, each trying to
                    outdo the other in certifying to his worth and singing his praises. He never got
                    the office, but he kept the letters. Convention day came around again, and he
                    threw some kind of a  firebrand into the
                    camp. They all literally jumped on him; he took it quietly, only saying enough
                    to cause the flood-gates of vituperation to be opened. They accused him of about
                    every crime known to the calendar, held him up as a man absolutely without
                    character and unworthy of the confidence of any man or party. Hughes's
                    time came at last, and he hauled out his letters. He would quote the language of
                    first one, then another, would read that one's letter, in which so many
                    good things were said of him, and, shaking his finger–about his only
                    gesture–would say: "Didn't I tell you he would
                    lie?"
            His manner of speaking was peculiar. In a speech he never got excited. The
                    attribute of greatness ascribed by Josh Billings to 
                        Washington
                     applied to him: "He never slopped over." When he
                    arose to speak, it was with the utmost deliberation. He would toy with a piece
                    of paper, an envelope, a pencil, a book, or anything on which he might lay his
                    hand. He would pass it from one hand to the other, look at it, turn it over,
                    view it from side to side; pull down his collar with one hand, then with the
                    other; speaking with the greatest deliberation, and apparently with the greatest
                    difficulty. This would become painful to the audience. It appeared that he never
                    would proceed. After a while and by degrees he would warm up to his subject and
                    the occasion, and the listener would forget his apparent embarrassment. When it
                    was known he was to speak, there was always a crowd. The occasion made no
                    difference. The people heard him gladly. During the campaigns of 1864, 1866 and
                    1868 he spoke often. One night, I remember, during the campaign of 1866, there
                    was a small meeting of the Republicans at the court-house–I do not
                    now remember the occasion–and he came. The crowd was small, and he
                    was called on for a speech. I never heard it equalled. For over an hour he stood
                    with his hands in his pockets, talked and talked–talked altogether on
                    local affairs, of the local politicians, of their sins of omission and
                    commission, of what they had done and of what they had left undone, and on their
                    conduct during the war. It appeared that he knew everything that had been done
                    by every man among the local politicians of the opposition, and it was as well
                    dove-tailed and fitted as nicely as if he had spent weeks in its preparation. On
                    another  occasion, during that or the
                    following campaign, a rally with prominent speakers was advertised. Delegations
                    from the out townships, glee clubs, big wagons, banners, little boys and girls
                    with white waists and red skirts and blue caps, were all in evidence. The
                    speakers failed to materialize, and the burden fell on Hughes. Nobody went to
                    hear or listen to him through curiosity, because all had heard him speak times
                    without number, but they went, and he held that audience as far as his voice
                    could reach as I have never seen a grand rally audience held before or since. I
                    heard many say, Republicans and Democrats, that they had never heard it equaled.
            In the campaign of 1868 Daniel W. Voorhees was a candidate for Congress. They had
                    been great friends, but were then bitter enemies–at least as far as
                    Hughes was concerned. Hughes challenged him for a joint discussion, to which
                    Voorhees replied that if the Republicans would bring out some representative man
                    who had any standing before the community, or who occupied a position equal to
                    himself, he would consider it, but he had neither the time nor inclination to
                    stop and divide time with every little, insignificant crossroads politician who
                    thought he could make a speech or might be running for the Legislature. That
                    touched Hughes's pride. He could stand abuse, but to be called
                    "insignificant" was too much. That day Voorhees had a meeting
                    in Polk township, and as a sort of counter-irritant Hughes called one that night
                    at the court-house, and, like the man with the heathen Chinese, "he
                    went for him then and there." It was a fearful philippic. He belittled
                    him, spoke of him as a man by the name of Voorhees, "Dan, I believe, is
                    his first name, who imagines he is running for Congress and going around over
                    the country trying to make speeches," etc., and as a clincher he said:
                    "To-day, I understand, he is in Polk township, where the foot of
                    civilized man never trod."
            In stature Judge Hughes was about five feet ten inches high, was very fair, had
                    blue eyes, a fringe of light hair at the base of a very large and very bald
                    head, clean-shaven and with clear-cut features. In his latter years he became
                    very corpulent. He was his own master, and under all circumstances his
                    expression was the same. I have heard those who disliked him say he had no more
                    expression than a wooden Indian. It never changed. Dignity  was personified in him. No one ever called him
                    "Jim" to his face, slapped him on the shoulder, or took
                    liberties with his person. He never stopped on the streets to loaf. The dry
                    goods box of early days was to him a complete stranger. He went back and forth
                    from his residence to his office, speaking and nodding to acquaintances and
                    friends, but the occasion was rare that he stopped and talked.
            In 1869 I was at 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the session of the Legislature, and saw him
                    often–almost daily. He boarded at the old Bates House–then
                    the principal hotel–and had a suite of rooms on the dining-room floor
                    in the southeast corner of the building, fronting on 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Washington
                     streets. During the session he was never away from the city. He was
                    never seen on the streets of 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the session except when passing to and from the hotel and
                    the old State House. When he desired to see members or others, they were invited
                    to call at his rooms. He was a high liver, kept an abundance of the finest
                    liquors in his rooms, always accessible, and kept one or two retainers whose
                    sole duty it was to entertain guests, keep the stock replenished, and to supply
                    the wants of his friends. He drank often, taking about a spoonful, well
                    sweetened and well diluted. In personal appearance he was all that could bp
                    asked. He bathed and shaved every morning, wore a standing collar, clothed in
                    the latest style and with the finest fabric, wore a soft brown hat, and always
                    looked as if he had just stepped out of a bandbox. His hospitality was
                    unbounded, and sometimes his friends fell by the wayside by reason of its
                    abundance.
            He lived in constant fear of assassination or of great bodily harm, boasted of
                    his bravery, of his proficiency with a pistol and a knife, and had a disposition
                    to redress his wrongs on the field of honor by the rules of the code. For that
                    purpose he had a fine brace of dueling pistols, but they were never used in that
                    way. He would demand satisfaction with a dueling affix, expect some sort of an
                    apology, which was usually forthcoming, and it would all pass over. Once he sent
                    a challenge to George Grundy Dunn, of 
                        Bedford
                    , who promptly accepted and named double-barreled shotguns at ten
                    paces. That looked like Sherman's definition of war; friends
                    interceded, and the affair was never pulled off. That closed his career as a
                    duelist. One evening some friends were  with
                    him in the back room of his office, a little one-story, two-room brick building,
                    having some liquid refreshments, when he told of having been waylaid, fired upon
                    by unseen enemies and cowardly assassins who were too cowardly to meet him in
                    daylight, but that he had turned loose his artillery and fired his revolver, at
                    which they all ran, and that he passed on undisturbed, undismayed, as a brave
                    and fearless man, conscious of the rectitude of his life and conduct and
                    therefore fearful of no danger. "Dank" 
                        Spencer
                     was in the crowd, and he and a friend who knew his road home and
                    about the time he would pass, and that part of his road where assassins would
                    probably lurk if they were about, armed with two old muskets and a revolver
                    each, waited for him to pass. At the proper time they let the muskets, pointed
                    skyward, go off, and then began a fusillade with their revolvers in the same
                    direction. Judge Hughes fired from his revolver toward the flash of the firearms
                    and then proceeded to fall back in reasonably good order–as good as
                    his own and the street's condition would permit. The next day handbills
                    appeared offering fabulous rewards for the cowardly and dastardly would-be
                    assassins, while the newspapers with scare headlines told of the dastardly plot,
                    of political enemies, and of his heroic stand. The old wooden columns and the
                    ceiling of the old courtroom bore evidences of his inclination to shoot.
            Judge Hughes, with his magnificent intellect, his great learning, with his
                    boundless ambition, with his unimpeachable honesty and integrity, with his
                    ability as a lawyer and statesman, never reached a position in the State or
                    nation commensurate with his attainments. He was lacking in tact; he was
                    deficient in diplomacy; he was a born fighter; he carried his warfare to the
                    bitter end; he never temporized; he never let up; conciliation was not in his
                    vocabulary; he courted no man's friendship. For these reasons he was no
                    politician. He undertook to win on his personality and the merits of his cause,
                    not by bending the hinged knee, playing the sycophant, or pandering to the
                    crowd.
            His death was at 
                  Bladensburg,
                            Maryland
               , on the
                    24th day of November, 1873, caused by a fall from a carriage, while in the
                    fifty-first year of his age. His body was brought to this place and laid to rest
                    by members of the 
                        Bloomington
                     bar, among the scenes of his early turbulent career.
         
         
         
            SURVEY OF STATE INSTITUTIONS.
            
                    BY AGNES TILSON.
                
            [A paper prepared for an historical seminar in 
                        Butler
                     College.]
            THE State of Indiana supports the following institutions: 
                  
                      
                     Established
                  
                  
                     Indiana University
                     1820
                  
                  
                     Indiana State School for the Deaf
                     1844
                  
                  
                     Indiana School for the Blind
                     1846
                  
                  
                     Central Indiana Hospital for Insane
                     1848
                  
                  
                     Indiana State Prison
                     1859
                  
                  
                     Indiana State Normal School
                     1865
                  
                  
                     Purdue University
                     1865
                  
                  
                     Indiana Soldiers' and Sailors' Orphans'
                                Home.
                     1867
                  
                  
                     Indiana Boys' School
                     1867
                  
                  
                     Indiana Woman's Prison
                     1869
                  
                  
                     Indiana Girls' School
                     1869
                  
                  
                     Indiana School for Feeble-Minded Youth
                     1879
                  
                  
                     Northern Indiana Hospital for Insane
                     1888
                  
                  
                     Eastern Indiana Hospital for Insane
                     1890
                  
                  
                     Southern Indiana Hospital for Insane
                     1890
                  
                  
                     Indiana State Soldiers' Home
                     1895
                  
                  
                     Indiana Reformatory
                     1897
                  
                  
                     Indiana Village for Epileptics
                     1905
                  
                  
                     Southeastern Indiana Hospital for Insane
                     1905
                  
                  
                     Indiana Tuberculosis Hospital
                     1907
                  
               
            
            These fall into three divisions: Educational, Penal and Correctional, and
                    Benevolent.
            The first General Assembly of Indiana Territory passed "An act to
                    incorporate a university in the Indiana Territory." This act was
                    approved November 29, 1806, and the institution was then and is still known as 
                        Vincennes
                     University. This was the first institution for higher learning
                    within the limits of Indiana. In 1822 an act was passed by the General Assembly
                    for the practical  confiscation of its land
                    for the support of its new "State Seminary" at 
                        Bloomington
                    , and in 1824 the State formally declared the 
                        Vincennes
                     institution extinct. [Superintendent of Public
                    Instruction's Report, 1904, p. 501.]
            By virtue of the State Constitutions of 1816 and 1851 and the acts of the General
                    Assembly, Indiana University, located at 
                        Bloomington
                    , is the State university of Indiana. Since the year 1867 the
                    university has been coeducational in all its departments. All students meeting
                    the university requirements receive the degree of Bachelor of Arts.
            There are now eighty members of the faculty. In addition to the twenty-four
                    departments, there are schools of law and medicine. The school of law was opened
                    at 
                        Bloomington
                     as a department of the university in 1842. This was, it is
                    believed, the first State university law school established west of the
                    Alleghanies. The present school of medicine is the outgrowth of the
                    consolidation and absorption of rival institutions.
            In September, 1905, the Medical College of Indiana, the Central College of
                    Physicians and Surgeons and the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     College of Medicine merged under the name the Indiana Medical
                    College, the school of medicine of Purdue University.
            In the summer of 1907 the Indiana University School of Medicine and the State
                    College of Physicians and Surgeons united under the name of the Indiana
                    University School of Medicine.
            In April, 1908, negotiations were completed whereby the Indiana Medical College
                    was united with the Indiana University School of Medicine and put under the
                    control of the university, the first two years of the course to be given both at 
                        Bloomington
                     and at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the last two in 
                        Indianapolis
                     alone.
            The university grounds have an extent of about seventy acres, with eleven main
                    buildings. The university is supported by State appropriation, receiving
                    ordinarily about one-tenth of a mill on every dollar of taxable property in the
                    State.
            The board of trustees is composed of eight members, five of whom are selected by
                    the State Board of Education and three by the alumni of the institution. The
                    board is required to report biennially to the Governor of the State, and to the
                    Superintendent of Public Instruction whenever requested, on all matters relating
                        
                    
                     to the university. The whole administration
                    of the university is open to the inspection of a board of visitors, composed of
                    the Governor, Lieutenant-Governor, Speaker of the House of Representatives,
                    Judges of the Supreme Court and the Superintendent of Public Instruction, and
                    all of the accounts of the university are regularly audited by the Auditor of
                    State. The president of the university, also, is ex officio a member of the
                    State Board of Education.
            Purdue University, located at 
                        Lafayette
                    , originated in the act of Congress approved July 2, 1862,
                    appropriating public lands to the various States for the purpose of aiding in
                    the maintenance of colleges for instruction in agriculture and the mechanical
                    arts. The State of Indiana accepted the provisions of the act of Congress by an
                    act of the Legislature approved March 6, 1865, thus providing for the
                    establishment and maintenance of the institution. In accordance with the
                    provisions of its foundation, the university offers the following courses of
                    instruction leading to degrees: Agriculture, Applied Science, Mechanical
                    Engineering, Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering, and Pharmacy. The degree
                    of Bachelor of Science (B. S.) is conferred for the completion of undergraduate
                    courses. To graduate students of the schools of science and agriculture the
                    degree of Master of Science (M. S.) is granted, and in the engineering schools
                    the degrees of Mechanical Engineer (M. E.), Electrical Engineer (E. E.) and
                    Civil Engineer (C. E.) are granted. The instruction corps numbers one hundred
                    and forty-three, and twenty others are engaged exclusively in the work of the
                    agricultural experiment station.
            In addition to its primary function as an educational institution, the university
                    is charged, under the laws of the State, with the administration of the
                    farmers' institutes, the agricultural experiment station, and the
                    inspection and regulation of the sale of commercial fertilizers and feeding
                    stuffs. None of the funds appropriated for or belonging to these departments can
                    be used in any way for the support of departments of instruction.
            The university is supported by federal appropriations; by interest on the
                    endowment fund derived from the original land grant of the 
                        United States
                    ; by a tax of one-tenth of a mill on the taxable property of the
                    State, and by students' fees.
            
            The material equipment of the institution consists of 250 acres of land, of which
                    50 acres is used for campus and the remainder for experimental plats and farming
                    operations of the department of agriculture. There are thirty-three buildings.
            From the first the institution has been under the control of trustees appointed
                    either by the Legislature or the Governor. These trustees are responsible for
                    all official acts, and are subject to removal.
            The Indiana State Normal School is located in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . The statute of 1865 which created it defined its object to be
                    "the preparation of teachers for teaching in the common schools of
                    Indiana. This includes the first eight years of school work and the high
                    school." A legal requirement for admission is a pledge that the
                    applicant wishes to prepare to teach, if practicable, in the public schools of
                    Indiana. The school gives various normal courses and a college course, at the
                    completion of which a certificate and the degree of Bachelor of Arts are given,
                    and the diploma or life license is given after two years of successful teaching.
                    The school is supported by State legislative appropriation. It occupies three
                    large buildings, and a library is now being built.
            These three institutions all have free tuition to residents of the State, and are
                    coeducational. They are concrete examples of the democracy described by
                    President William Lowe Bryan, of Indiana University, in his inaugural address in
                    1902: "What the people want is open paths from every corner of the
                    State, through the schools, to the highest and best things which men can
                    achieve. To make such paths, to make them open to the poorest and lead to the
                    highest, is the mission of democracy."
            In her penal and correctional institutions Indiana has made great progress. At
                    present she supports five of these institutions: The Indiana Boys'
                    School, the Indiana Girls' School, Indiana Reformatory, the Indiana
                    Woman's Prison, and the Indiana State Prison.
            The Indiana Boys' School grew out of the House of Refuge which was
                    established by an act of the forty-fifth regular session of the General
                    Assembly, which convened January 10, 1867. In  1883 the law governing the school was radically and carefully revised. At
                    this time the name of the institution was changed to Indiana Reform School for
                    Boys. The General Assembly of 1907 changed the name to Indiana Boys'
                    School. The work for the boys is intended, by strict discipline and mental and
                    moral training, to teach a boy the great lesson of life under law, that as he
                    conducts himself so will he be treated.
            The Indiana Boys' School is a farm of 4677/8 acres, beautifully situated
                    on a bluff of White Lick creek nearly a mile southwest of 
                        Plainfield
                    . The farm is indeed an industrial village. All the work on the farm
                    and in the village is carried on by the boys themselves, under the direction of
                    competent instructors. The officers of the institution consist of a board of
                    trustees, appointed by the Governor for a term of four years. The remaining
                    officers are superintendent, matron, assistant superintendent, clerk, chaplain,
                    physician and assistant clerk. The teaching faculty consists of five teachers.
                    There are also thirty-six subordinate officers in charge of the manual training
                    shops and other departments.
            "Schools corresponding to the grades of the city schools are maintained
                    the year round. Quite a number committed to the school are illiterate. These are
                    not permitted to leave until they at least know how to read and write and have
                    obtained the rudiments of a serviceable education. Such as have had some
                    schooling, after coming here, complete the course of study. This has been
                    signalized and emphasized during the past two years by graduating exercises, at
                    which ten boys were given the regular common school diplomas by the county
                    superintendent of 
                        Hendricks county
                    . This did not necessarily mean that the boys so completing the
                    school course were entitled to leave school.
            "The policy of this school is not the meting out of vindictive
                    punishment, but the reclaiming and reforming of wayward and unfortunate boys
                    through kindly but firm discipline. The purpose is strictly reformative, as no
                    bars, cells or walls are used to confine the boys. The stigma of penal reform is
                    kept invisible, and the boys are made to feel as free as possible."
            The Indiana Girls' School is a school for delinquent girls. It is
                    located seven and one-half miles nothwest of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , near Clermont. The school was established by an act of the
                    Legislature,  1869, then a part of the
                    institution known as the Indiana Reformatory for Women and Girls. The school was
                    separated from the prison and moved to its new home in July, 1907.
            The farm on which the school found its new home consists of 1271/2 acres. Here
                    gardening is carried on extensively enough to provide
                    vegetables and small fruits for a family of nearly three hundred. The large
                    family is divided into eight groups–each group occupying a cottage in
                    charge of two women. The work in the school compares favorably with other public
                    schools of the State. Moreover, each girl is given a regular course of training,
                    consisting of three months in laundry, kitchen, dining-room, and other phases of
                    housework. There are no bars. The honor system prevails. The institution is
                    under the management of a board of trustees consisting of four women appointed
                    by the Governor for a term of four years. It is supported by the State by an
                    appropriation made by the Legislature on a per capita basis.
            For many years before April, 1897, there had been maintained upon the present
                    site of the Indiana Reformatory at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     a State prison which was known as the Indiana State Prison South.
                    The General Assembly on February 27, 1897, ordered the prison property, which
                    consisted of about twenty acres and several buildings, together with the
                    prisoners, to be transferred to the board of managers of the Indiana
                    Reformatory. "The buildings now constituting the reformatory are
                    twenty-seven in number." [Legislative Manual, 1903.]
            Section 6 of the Reformatory Act, 1897, says: "It shall be the duty of
                    the managers to provide for the thorough training of each and every inmate in
                    the common branches of an English education; also in such trade, industry or
                    handicraft, and to offer such rewards, as will enable him, upon his release, to
                    more surely earn his own support and make him a more self-reliant and
                    self-supporting citizen. For this purpose said managers shall establish and
                    maintain common schools and trade schools in said reformatory, and make all
                    needful rules and regulations for the government of the same, and do such other
                    acts as may be necessary to accomplish such results."
            The need for schooling in the common branches of an English  education on the part of men commited to the
                    institution is very apparent upon a close study of the educational statistics.
                    "Of the 426 men received during the year which endad September 30,
                    1908, by an actual educational test, 11 per cent, could neither read nor write;
                    50 per cent, could simply read and write; 34 per cent, could not be classed
                    beyond the fourth grade; 5 per cent. still possessed the essentials of a common
                    school education; 32 per cent, were illiterate in arithmetic, while only 6 per
                    cent, possessed a working knowledge of arithmetic beyond the fundamental
                    principles.
            "The boy who remains in school until the close of the eighth grade
                    stands less than ten chances out of a hundred to become a criminal, while the
                    boy who completes his high school course stands only seven-tenths of a chance
                    out of a hundred." [Indiana Report of State Superintendent of Public
                    Instruction, p. 295, 1908.]
            "Statistics show that a large per cent, of young criminals pos sess very
                    little, if any, skill in any trade or occupation. In order to assist such men in
                    finding their place in society, it was conceived that industrial education,
                    coupled with instruction in the essentials of an English education, was the
                    surest and most logical method to follow. Trade schools are now in operation in
                    the following lines: Foundry, blacksmithing, broom-making, cabinet work,
                    carpentry, pattern-making, electrical engineering, laundering, mechanical
                    engineering, painting, printing, tailoring, tinsmithing, bakery, library
                    practice, masonry and shoemaking. In each department there is a competent
                    instructor who has had practical experience in his line of work."
            The Indiana Woman's Prison was established by an act of the Legislature
                    passed 1869. This was the first woman's prison in the 
                        United States
                    . Act No. 240, approved March 9, 1907, created a correctional
                    department. Before this time all short sentenced women spent their time in
                    county jails, idling away their time. Although their sentence is often short,
                    everything is now done to teach them how to work and help them become better
                    housekeepers and homekeepers.
            The State prison is popularly known as the 
                        Michigan City
                     prison. On the 5th of March, 1859, a bill became a law for the  establishment of a new prison north of the
                    National Road. This institution was built in 1860, and is situated at the
                    western limits of the corporation of 
                  Michigan
                            City, Laporte
                    county
               . "The Indiana State Prison is no less a
                    reformatory than any other institution of the country bearing that significant
                    name. The parole system is in force. School is maintained during the winter
                    months. Church services are held each Sunday, and the Christian Endeavor Society
                    flourishes. A good library is accessible to all the men." [Legislative
                    Manual, 1903, p. 353.]
            In spite of the fact that Indiana has these five institutions, she does all in
                    her power to keep people out of them. To this end she has provided juvenile
                    courts for children, the indeterminate sentence and probation laws for adults.
                    But if people are not worthy of these laws, they are kept in the institutions,
                    where all is done to reform them and make them better citizens. In all cases
                    punishment is subordinated to reform. "It is presumed that crime and
                    ignorance have been bedfellows since the first crime, and no doubt the close
                    relationship has been recognized for ages. Likewise, the present unbounded faith
                    in education as a character-forming agency is as old as the hills. But it has
                    taken a long time for the thought to filter through that education may be as
                    successfully used as a character-reforming agency." [Reformatory School
                    of Letters, October, 1906.]
            We feel proud that Indiana has recognized this, and it is encouraging that other
                    States have followed our example in a number of things. For example: "
                        Massachusetts
                     modeled her Woman's Reformatory Prison after
                    ours." [Development of Reformatory Idea in Indiana," by A.
                    Butler, p. 6.]
            Mr. Z. R. Brockway, former superintendent of the far-famed 
                        New York State
                     Reformatory at 
                        Elmira
                    , in an unpublished letter to the Board of State Charities of
                    Indiana, speaks in the highest terms of the way in which the indeterminate
                    sentence and parole laws are administered in Indiana.
            The Nineteenth Annual Report of the Indiana Board of State Charities, 1908, to
                    the Governor, summarizes these recent advances: "The Legislature of
                    1897 passed the indeterminate sentence and parole laws. They became operative
                    April ist of that year. The Prison South at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     became the Indiana 
                    Reformatory, and the prison at 
                        Michigan City
                     the Indiana State Prison. The new laws provided that men between
                    the ages of sixteen and thirty years, who would receive a prison sentence,
                    should be sent to the Reformatory, and those over thirty years of age, and all
                    sentenced for treason or murder in the first or second degree, to the State
                    Prison.
            "The old system of measuring out a definite amount of imprisonment for
                    so much crime was replaced by the new laws. Under them men are committed to the
                    State Prison or to the control of the Reformatory board of trustees, to be
                    confined until such time within the maximum term fixed by law for the punishment
                    of the various crimes as they show satisfactory evidence of reformation.
                    Provision was made for industrial training, and for giving the illiterate the
                    rudiments of an education. The institutions were given authority to appoint
                    agents to visit paroled men and in every possible way encourage them in their
                    efforts to re-establish themselves. In a word, the State, instead of merely
                    imprisoning those who broke her laws, sought by this new system to make better
                    citizens of them. While apparently revolutionary in character, these laws are
                    but an evolution of the principle embodied in the State's Constitution
                    of 1816 and again that of 1851, that the treatment of criminals in Indiana
                    should be reformatory and not vindictive.
            "With each succeeding session of the General Assembly the
                    State's penal system has been modified by laws scarcely less important
                    than those of 1897. The indeterminate sentence has been extended to apply to the
                    Woman's Prison at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Contract labor at the Reformatory has been superseded by trade
                    schools and the manufacture of goods on State account. The juvenile court,
                    contributory delinquency and adult probation laws, as well as notable enactments
                    for the protection of deserted, neglected and dependent children, have been
                    added to the statutes. Laws have been passed authorizing life imprisonment for
                    habitual criminals and sterilization of confirmed criminals, rapists, imbeciles
                    and idiots. It would seem that provision has been made to meet practically every
                    phase of delinquency, from that of the little child, whose offense might become
                    serious if not met by the juvenile court and the probation officer, to that of
                    the  most hardened criminal, whose repeated
                    violations of law make it necessary to deprive him for all time of his liberty.
            "The majority of these enactments have been in force too short a time to
                    enable us to speak of results. Back of the indeterminate sentence and parole
                    laws, however, is a record of eleven years' operation. Their
                    constitutionality has stood the test of trial in the Supreme Court. They are
                    constantly winning new friends as the people of the State come to understand
                    them and to realize their possibilities. The last meeting of the State Bar
                    Association received a very favorable report from its committee on this subject,
                    which is printed in its proceedings. The results achieved under these laws
                    indicate that their operation is a decided advantage to the State.
            "In the past eleven years 3,983 men have been paroled from the
                    Reformatory and the State Prison. All of these had received much training and
                    they were released under conditions that imposed honest, law-abiding lives for a
                    period of at least one year each. During the term of their parole they were
                    visited from time to time by agents of the institution from which they had been
                    sent, and they were required to make regular written reports. As shown by the
                    following tabulation, a decided majority of these 3,983 men lived up to the
                    conditions of their parole. Generally unemployed when their offenses were
                    committed, they went from prison to regular employment, and during the time they
                    were tested on parole earned for themselves $1,079,375.40, an average
                    of $270.99 each.
            
               
                   
                  Reformatory.
                  State Prison
                  Total.
               
               
                  Received final discharge.
                  1,310
                  911
                  2,221
               
               
                  Sentence expired while on parole
                  229
                  104
                  333
               
               
                  Returned for violation of parole
                  326
                  250
                  576
               
               
                  Delinquent and at large
                  319
                  106
                  425
               
               
                  Died.
                  49
                  30
                  79
               
               
                  Reporting
                  227
                  122
                  349
               
               
                  Total paroled
                  2,460
                  1,523
                  3,983
               
               
                  Percentage of unsatisfactory cases
                  26.2
                  23.3
                  25.1
               
               
                  Earnings
                  $664,996.44
                  $414,378.96
                  $1,079,375.40
               
               
                  Expenses
                  580,672.01
                  302,019.86
                  882,691.87
               
               
                  Savings
                  $84,324.43
                  $112,359.10
                  $106,683.53
               
            
            
            "The parole system has not always proved successful. As shown above,
                    1,001 or 25.1 per cent, of the total number paroled during the eleven years
                    violated their paroles. Of these, 576 have been returned to prison and 425 are
                    still at large. No one ever claimed or expected that the plan would succeed in
                    all cases. The old system of imprisonment at hard labor, often accompanied as it
                    was by humiliating punishment, was not a success. Many prison wardens who are
                    still working under it testify that a majority of their discharged prisoners
                    return to criminal ways. The new system, however, has had remarkably good
                    results. The records of the Prison and Reformatory show that under the old form
                    of commitment ex-convicts were received at the rate of fifty-eight a year; under
                    the new form, thirty-six a year. In the ten years preceding the passage of the
                    indeterminate sentence law and the establishment of the Indiana Reformatory
                    there were received at the two State Prisons 8,004 prisoners; in the next ten
                    years, 6,794 prisoners. There is an actual decrease of 1,210, or 15 per cent.,
                    in favor of the latter decade, and this in the face of an increase of
                    approximately 15 per cent, in the population of the State. No agency but the
                    indeterminate sentence and parole laws and their wise administration can be
                    given the credit for this.
            "Another striking fact has been brought out by a study of the prison
                    records. The average length of time men remain in confinement is longer under
                    the new form than under the old form of commitment; at the Reformatory seven
                    months, fourteen days longer; at the State Prison one year, four months and
                    twenty-eight days longer. Note that while there has been an increase in both
                    institutions, it is greater at the State Prison than at the Reformatory. It is
                    the State Prison which receives the older and more hardened criminals.
            "These facts prove that the indeterminate sentence and parole laws of
                    1897 are a far more effective means of dealing with crime than any yet tried in
                    Indiana. With the help of the preventive measures more recently enacted and of
                    more loyal public support, which will come as these laws become better known, it
                    is safe to predict for them even greater success in the next decade."
            
            Indiana supports twelve benevolent institutions: The Indiana State School for the
                    Deaf, the Indiana School for the Blind, the Indiana Soldiers' and
                    Sailors' Orphans' Home, the Indiana School for Feeble-Minded
                    Youth, the Indiana State Soldiers' Home, the five Insane Hospitals, the
                    Indiana Village for Epileptics, and the Indiana Tuberculosis Hospital. The first
                    four are not only benevolent, but also educational institutions.
            The Indiana State School for the Deaf was founded as a private school in 1843,
                    and incorporated as a State school in 1844 The bill of February 4, 1843, which
                    provided for a tax of two mills upon each one hundred dollars' worth of
                    property for the "support of a deaf and dumb asylum," stands
                    as the first direct tax levy ever made for a school for the deaf. In the
                    beginning pupils were charged for board and tuition, except as they filed a
                    certificate setting out the fact of their poverty. In a short time the law was
                    changed and everything made free to those too deaf to be educated in the common
                    schools. "In this liberality Indiana has the proud distinction of
                    having been the first State in the union to throw open her educational doors to
                    the deaf absolutely without cost to them. The State now makes no charge, only
                    requiring that pupils shall pay their transportation and furnish their own
                    clothing; where this can not be done, the State provides and charges it to the
                    county whence the pupil comes." [Twenty-fourth Biennial Report of
                    Superintendent of Public Instruction.] Each pupil is required to become
                    proficient in some useful trade or occupation, or in the underlying principles
                    of several trades, while he is in attendance at the institution. All pupils are
                    required to labor a part of each day, the girls performing the lighter kinds of
                    housework, and the boys working at various trades.
            At the present time the school occupies buildings in East 
                        Washington
                     street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but new buildings are being erected in Forty-second street,
                    immediately north of the State Fair Grounds. The purchase consists of eighty
                    acres, and there are twenty-two buildings in course of erection. The new school
                    is to have a capacity of five hundred pupils.
            In 1844 the legislature passed a bill which levied a tax of two mills on each one
                    hundred dollars of taxable property for the 
                    purpose of sending the blind of this State to the schools for the blind in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     until a school could be established in this State for their
                    education. In 1846 the General Assembly passed an act appropriating
                    $5,000 to found a State school. The tax was also raised to one cent
                    on each $100 for its support. In 1848 the board purchased for
                    $5,000 the eight-acre tract on which the institution stands in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Four departments are maintained in the school: Physical training,
                    the industrial, the literary, and music. The literary course is arranged to
                    cover twelve years.
            All children between the ages of eight and twenty-one, residents of Indiana,
                    without sufficient sight to receive an education in the public schools, are
                    admitted, provided they have sufficient physical and mental ability to do fair
                    school work.
            The value of the grounds, buildings and equipment is nearly $600,000.
                    The annual appropriation covering all departments is $41,000.
            In March, 1867, the Home for Disabled Soldiers at 
                        Knightstown
                     became an institution for the maintenance not only of disabled
                    soldiers and seamen, but also for their widows and orphans. In 1871 a part of
                    the buildings burned, and the soldiers and widows were removed to the National
                    Military Home at 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               . Since that time, with
                    the exception of the eight years that feeble-minded children were kept at the
                    home, the orphans have been the sole possessors of the institution. The course
                    of study corresponds to the course of the public schools at large. Under the law
                    all children over thirteen years of age attend school half of the day and work
                    at some industrial trade the other half.
            The board of trustees of the home is composed of four members, three men and one
                    woman, who must be the wife, widow or daughter of a soldier.
            The School for Feeble-Minded Youth began in 1879 as an adjunct to the Indiana
                    Soldiers' and Sailors' Orphans' Home. In 1887 the
                    Legislature appropriated $10,000 for the purchase of land
                    "at or near the city of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ," and appropriated $40,000 for buildings.
            The school is divided in two divisions–industrial and custodial. The
                    industrial is for children who are capable of taking  on the rudiments of a common school education. The
                    custodial part is an asylum for low-grade feeble-minded, idiotic and epileptic
                    children. The age limit for children is between six and eighteen years.
            The executive management of the institution is vested in a superintendent, who
                    must be an expert in the care and training of feeble-minded children. The
                    general charge and management of the institution is intrusted to a board of
                    trustees, consisting of four members, one member to be a woman. The educational
                    department is under a principal, who is assisted by thirteen teachers.
            At the Department Encampment at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1891, $5,000 was appropriated to aid in the erection
                    of cottages when the Indiana State Soldiers' Home should be
                    established. The land offered to the home by the citizens of 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     and the city of 
                        Lafayette
                     was accepted. The home is situated on the west bank of the
                        Wabash River, four miles north of 
                        Lafayette
                    . The home is for all honorably discharged soldiers or sailors and
                    their wives.
            The board of trustees is composed of five members. These and the commandant and
                    adjutant must be "honorably discharged volunteer soldiers or sailors of
                    the Union army or navy in the War of the Rebellion."
            The constitution of 1837 contained a clause making it the duty of the State to
                    provide for the support of institutions for the treatment of the insane. By this
                    the State assumed the care of all the insane population of the State. However,
                    it has never entirely fulfilled this obligation. It is hoped that the completion
                    of the new hospital, the Southeastern Hospital for Insane, will fill the
                    obligation. At present many insane, and especially the incurable insane, are
                    kept in county poor asylums and jails.
            By an act which was passed and approved January 13, 1845, the Legislature
                    "provided for the procuring of a suitable site for the erection of a
                    State Lunatic Asylum." The commissioners bought 160 acres two miles
                    west of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The State has added many new buildings to the asylum, and it is
                    now known as the Central Indiana Hospital for the Insane.
            The Eastern Indiana Hospital for Insane is located at 
                        Richmond
                    
                     It is constructed on the cottage plan, and
                    was opened August 1, 1890. It is located on a farm of 307 acres. The institution
                    now has seventeen cottages occupied by patients, besides twelve other buildings.
            The Northern Indiana Hospital for Insane is located two miles from 
                        Logansport
                    . The hospital land comprises 293 acres. There are now eighteen
                    substantial brick or stone buildings and sixteen other buildings.
            The Southern Indiana Hospital for Insane is located on a 160-acre farm four miles
                    east of the city of 
                        Evansville
                    . It was opened October 30, 1890.
            The Southeastern Hospital for Insane is located near 
                        Madison
                    . The land, which consists of 353 acres, was bought January 1, 1906.
                    Work was commenced October, 1906, but owing to trouble with the contractors it
                    is doubtful if it is completed before 1910.
            By an act of March 6, 1905, an appropriation of $150,000 was made for
                    the purchase of a site for the Indiana Village for Epileptics and for the
                    preparation for the reception of the patients. The site is near 
                        Newcastle
                     and consists of 1244 acres. There are six buildings.
            On the 19th of August, 1907, the Governor gave notice that the village was ready
                    for the reception of patients.
            By an Act of the sixty-fifth General Assembly, approved March 8, 1907,
                    $30,000 was appropriated to purchase 500 acres of land as a site for
                    a hospital for the treatment of tuberculosis. After careful inspection of many
                    sites one was decided upon. It is three miles east of 
                        Rockville
                    , and consists of 504 acres. The buildings will be completed and
                    ready for the reception of patients by next April or May. But the General
                    Assembly failed to appropriate money for the opening and maintaining of the
                    hospital, and as a result the hospital will have to remain idle for at least
                    nine months.
            All of the State institutions, except Indiana University, Purdue University and
                    the Indiana State Normal School, are under the supervision of the Indiana Board
                    of State Charities. The Governor is president of the board, and appoints six
                    other members, three from each of the two leading parties. The purpose of the
                    Board of State Charities is "the supervision of the whole system of
                    public charities of the State." "Its duty is to see that every
                         inmate of every public institution
                    receives proper care, to see that the public funds are properly expended, and to
                    see that the management is protected from unjust criticism."
                    ["Development of Public Charities in Indiana," p. 5.]
                    Moreover, by Acts of 1907, chapter 98, approved March 2, 1907, these
                    institutions are under uniform management.
            "The duties of the Board of State Charities consist of visitation,
                    inspection and investigation, and it is required to suggest, advise and
                    recommend those things which it believes will be of advantage to the
                    institutions and the wards contained therein." [Nineteenth Annual
                    Report of Indiana Board of State Charities, 1908, p. 7.]
            Extracts from messages of two Governors illustrate the work of the board.
                    "The high standard of excellence attained in our charitable and penal
                    institutions is due in no small degree to the wise suggestions of this
                    board." [Message of Governor Mount, 1899, House Journal, 1899, p. 45.]
                    "The work of the Board of State Charities is of inestimable value. Its
                    supervision over the benevolent, charitable and correctional institutions is of
                    special value, and adds materially to the efficient, humane and economical
                    management of these institutions." [Message of Governor Durbin, 1903,
                    p. 13.]
            Indiana has indeed made great progress in her management of her charitable
                    institutions, but the two things which seem to me to mark the greatest advance
                    are: the way in which the institutions are established, and the non-partisan
                    control of them. Formerly the institutions were located in the district whose
                    representative had the most influence in the State Legislature. But now the
                    Legislature makes the appropriation for the institution and the Governor
                    appoints a commission to select a site. This commission looks for the best place
                    for the institution, regardless of politics and religion. The non-partisan
                    control system has the same relation to the management of State charities that
                    the civil service system has to the national government. For it "puts
                    the merit system in use, there is a prompt investigation of charges, continual
                    supervision, and frequent inspection." ["Development of Public
                    Charities in Indiana," 1900, p. 7.] As a result of these there is a
                    better class in charge of the institutions, and the whole standard of the
                    institutions is raised.
         
         
         
            THE NORTHERN INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
            
                    BY JUDGE TIMOTHY E. HOWARD,
                
            
                    President of the Society.
                
            HISTORICALLY speaking, 
                        St. Joseph County
                     is the oldest in the State. The soil of our county was the first to
                    receive the imprint of the white man's foot. It is reasonably certain
                    that Marquette passed up the Kankakee, across the portage and down the 
                        St. Joseph
                    , in May, 1675; and it is not at all a matter of doubt that a little
                    over four years later, in December, 1679, LaSalle, with eight canoes and about
                    thirty white men, and led by an Indian guide, came up the 
                        St. Joseph
                     from Lake Michigan, passing through the city
                    of 
                        South Bend
                    , as well as that of 
                        Mishawaka
                    , and going as far up the river as the present town of Osceola.
            These dates of May, 1675, and December, 1679, carry our local history further
                    back than that of any other county of the State of Indiana. But the route taken
                    by Marquette and LaSalle, that is, by way of the 
                        St. Joseph
                     and the Kankakee, including also the five-mile portage connecting
                    the two rivers, had been for ages before the white man's coming the
                    highway of travel and commerce from the lakes to the gulf. Lake Superior copper
                    has been traced from old Mound Builders' mines in upper 
                        Michigan
                     to the tombs of 
                        Peru
                    , in South America, and it was by this ancient highway through 
                        St. Joseph County
                     that this commerce was carried on.
            By our own portage, connecting the 
                        St. Joseph
                     and the Kankakee, came the Mound Builder, the Indian and the
                    Frenchman, years on years, and even ages on ages, before the English language
                    was heard about the great "south bend" of the St.
                        Joseph river.
            With this fine past before their eyes, it is not to be wondered at that those who
                    made up the intelligent community formed from the enterprising pioneers first
                    attracted to the rich lands of these valleys should at a very early date have
                    had their attention directed to a study of the peoples that had gone before
                    them.  Historical remains were in evidence
                    on all sides. 'Geologically, also, the locality was most
                    interesting–none more so in all the great northwest.
            Accordingly, as early as 1867, if not earlier, steps were taken in the city of 
                        South Bend
                     for the formation of a historical society for the study of the
                    early history of this county and its vicinity. It is well to call to mind the
                    names of the eminent citizens who took part in the organization of this early
                    historical society. On October 26, 1867, the first meeting took place and the
                    following were in attendance: Horatio Chapin, Woolman J. Holloway, George F.
                    Layton, Thomas S. Stanfield, Lathrop M. Taylor, Phillip B. Boone, Charles
                    Morgan, John Brownfield, Louis Humphreys, Almond Bugbee, Joseph G. Bartlett,
                    William L. Barrett, John T. Lindsey, John Reynolds, Mark Whinery, Elisha Egbert,
                    Charles M. Tutt Benjamin Wall, Ethan S. Reynolds, Jacob Hard-man, Benjamin F.
                    Price, Jacob N. Massey, Ricketson Burroughs, Elliott Tutt, Matthias Stover, John
                    A. Henricks, Daniel Greene, Daniel Dayton, Daniel A. Veasey, Charles W. Martin,
                    Schuyler Colfax, Francis R. Tutt and William Miller.
            We may confidently venture the statement that no county in the State, at that
                    date or at the present, could show a list of names representing a higher type of
                    citizenship than that represented by those organizers of our first historical
                    society. The organization was completed on November 2, 1867, and many
                    interesting meetings followed. Among the most valued papers then produced were
                    those of Judge Stanfield and Dr. Humphreys. But one member of the noble company
                    still survives, Daniel Greene, now past his ninetieth year, but still in good
                    physical health and in the full enjoyment of his faculties. He is a fine
                    representative of the superior men and women who laid the foundations of our
                    county's history.
            The society organized in 1867 continued to flourish until after many of the
                    guiding spirits had passed away. There was then for a time a lull in the study
                    of our local history. The pioneers had departed, one by one, and their sons and
                    daughters did not immediately take up the work. But the longing for the old is
                    like the longing for the wild; it finally takes irresistible possession of the
                    soul. The rocks, the streams, the forests are again studied.  Relics are again sought for. Old books,
                    manuscripts, tools and remains of former days become precious once more. Again
                    collections are made, and papers portraying the past again become fascinating.
            It is not, therefore, surprising that on August 7, 1894, a party was made up to
                    visit the site of old Fort St. Joseph's, a little below 
                        South Bend
                    , and once the seat of government for all the northwestern
                    wilderness. These were reverent pilgrims who on that day went forth to look with
                    awe upon the ground which for a century had been the seat of empire for all the
                    region to the west and the north. There was no 
                        Chicago
                     in those days, but the capital of the wilderness, the seat of civil
                    and military power, the place of merchandise and the headquarters of the
                    Christian missions, was this old Fort St. Joseph's.
            To the old fort, therefore, went our historical pilgrims on that August day in
                    1894; and there it was that they resolved to form a Northern Indiana and 
                        Southern Michigan
                     Historical Society–at least a society which should be
                    broad enough in purpose to study out and preserve the history of "the 
                        St. Joseph
                     country."
            On January 22, 1895, formal steps were taken to complete the organization, and a
                    committee was appointed to draw up a constitution, rules and by-laws, which were
                    adopted February 5, 1895. The name finally chosen was that by which the
                    association has since been known, the Northern Indiana Historical Society; but
                    the scope of investigation was to extend to the St. Joseph
                    valley in general, whether in Indiana or 
                        Michigan
                    , as well as to the county of 
                        St. Joseph
                     and vicinity in particular, and also to the mysterious region of
                    the Kankakee. Soon after its organization the society deemed it well to secure a
                    charter under the State law. On February 4, 1896, articles of incorporation were
                    drawn up, and on February 29, 1896, the charter was issued.
            The articles of incorporation provided, among other things, that the objects of
                    the organization should be:
            "To institute and encourage historical inquiry, to collect and preserve
                    the materials of history, and to spread historical information, especially
                    concerning the Saint Joseph valley in northern Indiana and 
                        Southern Michigan
                    ; also for the study of all branches of general, modern and ancient
                    history.
            
            "The collection and formation of a museum of historical articles.
            "The collection and preservation of a library of books and documents.
            "The general discussion of historical and literary subjects, and the
                    intellectual and social improvement of the society."
            The charter members of the society were:
            Lucius Hubbard, Martha O. Hubbard, George A. Baker, Bessie A. Baker, Howard S.
                    Stanfield, Flora L. Stanfield, Otto M. Knoblock, Margaret S. Knoblock, Richard
                    H. Lyon, Frances A. Lyon, Charles H. Bartlett, Anna Bartlett, Chauncey N.
                    Fassett, Ann Thrush Fassett, Corwin B. Van Pelt, Marion B. Van Pelt, Thaddeus S.
                    Taylor, Sarah Chestnutwood Taylor, George Ford, Josephine Oliver Ford, George B.
                    Beitner, Flora L. Beitner, William B. Starr, Charles Albert McDonald, Fannie E.
                    McDonald, Edwin Nicar, Cora B. Nicar, Willis A. Bugbee, William B. Stover, David
                    R. Leeper, Stuart MacKibbin, Peter E. Stude-baker, Mary L. Studebaker, John M.
                    Studebaker, Mary Stull Studebaker and James DuShane.
            Many others have since become members of the society. The number of the directors
                    was to be four, to be elected annually, and these were also to constitute an
                    executive committee who should be the active managers of the society. The first
                    directors were Lucius Hubbard, president; Richard H. Lyon, vice-president;
                    George A. Baker, secretary, and Otto M. Knoblock, treasurer. For several years
                    Charles H. Bartlett was director and president and Flora L. Stanfield also
                    director and vice-president. The directors succeeding those named, and now
                    serving, are: Timothy E. Howard, president; Mary Stull Studebaker,
                    vice-president; George A. Baker, secretary; Otto M. Knoblock, treasurer.
            The society began at once the collection of material and the discussion of
                    historical topics, and this work has been actively continued, chiefly through
                    the untiring efforts of the secretary, Mr. George A. Baker, aided by Mr.
                    Knoblock, Mr. Beitner, Mr. Lyon, Mr. Bartlett and others. The collection of
                    relics, mementos, historical books, documents, pictures, etc., has long been
                    pronounced the finest in the State and is priceless in value.
            
            The papers read during the first year were as follows: Life of Alexis Coquillard,
                    founder of the city and the county, by George Ford; The Carey Mission, by
                    Margaret S. Knoblock; Early River Transportation, by Otto M. Knoblock; Fort St.
                    Joseph's, by George A. Baker; Life of Lathrop M. Taylor, by his son,
                    Thad-deus S. Taylor; Notable Visitors to 
                        South Bend
                    , by Flora L. Stanfield; Early Schools of 
                        South Bend
                    , by Flora L. Beitner; Kickapoo Bible and Alphabet, by Charles H.
                    Bartlett; First Boot Factory in 
                        South Bend
                    , by Chauncey N. Fassett; Chief Topinabee and the Treaty of 1828, by
                    George A. Baker; Marriage Customs of the Pottawatomies, by Lucius Hubbard; From
                    the Ranks to the Staff, by Edwin Nicar.
            The program for the second year provided these papers: First Surveys of Northern
                    Indiana, first section, by Willis A. Bugbee; Crimes and Casualties of 
                        St. Joseph County
                    , by George B. Beitner; LaSalle, by Richard H. Lyon; The Kankakee
                    Portage, by Charles H. Bartlett; Pierre Navarre, by Chauncey N. Fassett; Early
                    Manufacturing Interests, by William B. Stover; Early Explorers of This Region,
                    by Edwin C. Mason, honorary member of the society and president of the 
                        Chicago
                     Historical Society; The Volunteer Fire Department of 
                        South Bend
                    , by Edwin Nicar; The Hydraulic Power of 
                        St. Joseph County
                    , by David R. Leeper; The Old Town of 
                  Bertrand, Michigan
               , by Flora L. Stan-field; Historical
                    Address, by Lucius Hubbard; The Press of 
                        St. Joseph County
                    , by Charles Albert McDonald; The Town of 
                        Mishawaka
                    , by Marion B. Van Pelt; First Surveys of Northern Indiana, second
                    section, by Willis A. Bugbee; The Underground Railroad, by Stuart MacKibbin;
                    Lantern Exhibition of Local Scenery, by Lucius Hubbard and William B. Stover;
                    The 
                        Michigan
                     Road, by George Ford; Early Documentary History, from 
                        Paris
                     and 
                        Ottawa
                     Archives, by George A. Baker.
            Some papers since read before the society are: The Glacial Phenomenon as
                    Exhibited in Northern Indiana and 
                        Southern Michigan
                    , by Dr. Hugh T. Montgomery; The 
                        Michigan
                     Road, by Miss Ethel L. Montgomery; A Sketch of the Supreme Court of
                    Indiana, and The Story of a Park (the first of the 
                        South Bend city
                     parks), by Timothy E. Howard. Over sixty such original papers have
                    been read and placed in the archives of the society.
            
            The society's library is a most valuable one, consisting of from seven
                    thousand to eight thousand volumes and documents. It received exchanges from
                    over one hundred sister societies in this and foreign countries. This library is
                    also a depository for the national and State publications, the latter believed
                    to be one of the most complete in the State.
            "It is doubtful," said the industrious secretary, Mr. George A.
                    Baker, in an article in The Indianian for November, 1899,
                    "if any other society in the country possesses such a unique collection
                    of early French and English relics, consisting as it does of seals, coins,
                    medals, crucifixes, crosses, brooches, finger- and earrings, beads, and almost
                    every conceivable thing used in the early days. More than two thousand specimens
                    found on the site of Fort St. Joseph's alone have been presented to the
                    society." Indeed, it has become a matter of common occurrence for
                    persons having valuable historical relics to present them to the Northern
                    Indiana Historical Society, in order that they may be kept in a place of
                    security, where they may be viewed and studied by those interested in the early
                    history of this region.
            The meetings are held regularly on the first Tuesday evening of each month,
                    except during the summer. These meetings were for a long time held in the upper
                    story of the City Library building, the society occupying the whole floor with
                    its books, documents, portraits and cases of specimens and historical relics.
            When the increasing needs of the City Library made it necessary that the
                    Historical Society should seek other quarters, the county council and board of
                    county commissioners, under statutory authority, and perceiving the priceless
                    value of the work already done, voluntarily offered to provide a permanent home
                    for the organization and its precious property. In this critical period of the
                    life of the society, the active assistance of Commissioner Barney C. Smith
                    entitles him to the particular remembrance of every friend of the organization.
                    His proposition was that the first floor of the old court-house, a building
                    which is itself a relic of great historical interest, should be fitted up and
                    devoted to the uses of the society. The upper story of the old court-house had
                    already been donated by the county to the occupancy of the Grand Army of the
                    Republic; and in it Auten Post  had long
                    been in the enjoyment of one of the finest Grand Army homes in the country.
            By an act approved March n, 1901, it was provided that where any historical
                    society "shall have maintained its organization and have been actively
                    engaged in the collection of data and material for, and in the preservation of
                    county and State history and biography, for the period of not less than five
                    consecutive years," the county might appropriate a sum not to exceed
                    $5,000 "for the construction and furnishings of rooms and
                    fire-proof vaults for the meetings of such historical society and for the
                    preservation of the records of such society and historical papers, documents and
                    natural history collections."
            Under provisions of this act and on proper petition, the county authorities in
                    1906 transformed the first floor of the old courthouse into what is one of the
                    finest of historical rooms. The building a substantial stone structure erected
                    in 1860, may now be said to be wholly devoted to historical uses; for the Grand
                    Army which occupies the upper story is itself historical, and in the nature of
                    things will soon be historic, and this fine old stone edifice, which sheltered
                    the war meetings of the county in the sixties, as it does the veterans of
                    to-day, and where the business of the courts and offices of the county was
                    conducted for nearly half a century, will for ages, undoubtedly, be the
                    permanent home of the historical treasures of northern Indiana.
            At stated times the rooms of the Historical Society are open to the inspection of
                    the public and to the study of scholars; and the people, by their constant
                    attendance on these occasions, have shown their appreciation of the treasures
                    safely housed in the fine old structure, with its pillared portico and its
                    simple Greek outlines, reminding us of the days when the world was young.
                    Altogether, the Northern Indiana Historical Society is one of the most
                    interesting and valuable of the literary organizations of the city of 
                        South Bend
                    ; and, permanently and safely located as it now is, it is certain to
                    become of greater interest and value as time goes on and its treasures continue
                    to accumulate, and to receive the attention of the students of our history.
         
         
         
            DEVELOPMENT OF INTERURBANS IN INDIANA.
            
                    FRED B. HIATT.
                
            [A paper read before an historical seminar in 
                        Butler
                     College.]
            THE originator of the electric interurban in Indiana was Mr. Charles L. Henry.
                    Mr. Henry, however, did not originate his idea of the interurban at home, but
                    while he was on a trip inspecting some mineral land in 
                        Missouri
                    . While there he visited the three prosperous cities of
                            
                  Joplin, Carthage
                and 
                        Webb City
                    , all of which had street railways. It occurred to him that, located
                    as they were, it would be a great benefit to these cities if they were connected
                    by electric lines. This could most easily be done by extending their street
                    railways. He at once made an effort to get control of the different systems, but
                    was unable to do so, and had to give up the idea. While this effort was a
                    failure, he decided to try his plan in Indiana. He owned the street railway
                    system at 
                        Alexandria
                    , and therefore began operations at that place.
            The first step was to find out the law upon the matter. He found that street
                    railways were allowed to extend their lines into the country, by getting
                    permission of the county commissioners; also that there was no limit to this
                    extension. Mr. Henry decided, as there was no limit to the extension, that he
                    would be allowed to connect two cities, so he determined to connect 
                        Alexandria
                     and 
                        Anderson
                    . The first car was run over this line January 1, 1898. This was the
                    pioneer interurban line of Indiana.
            Prior to the completion of the 
                        Alexandria
                    -
                        Anderson
                     line he had, by consolidation with the 
                        Anderson
                     company on September 3, 1897, formed the Union Traction Company.
                    This first venture was so successful that it was decided to continue the line to
                    Summitville, seventeen miles north of 
                        Anderson
                    . Here they connected with a line built by the 
                        Marion
                     Street Railway Company, connecting 
                        Marion
                     and Summitville, which added another seventeen miles of track.
                    About this time Mr. Henry consolidated his 
                    company with the 
                        Muncie
                     Street-car Company, and bought the 
                        Marion
                     company. On June 27, 1899, the three companies were incorporated as
                    the Union Traction Company of Indiana. This gave Mr. Henry control of the
                    Anderson, Muncie, Alexandria and 
                        Marion
                     companies. The new company completed a line, which had already been
                    begun, to 
                        Elwood
                    , and also built a line from 
                        Muncie
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     by way of Anderson.
            In the meantime a line had been built by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     & Northwestern Traction Company from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Peru
                     and 
                        Logansport
                    . This company consolidated with the Union Traction Company of
                    Indiana, and in 1904 the name was changed to the Indiana Union Traction Company,
                    which operates all of the above-named lines at the present time.
            About 1901 the management of the Union Traction Company passed out of Mr.
                    Henry's hands. He at once organized the 
                        Indianapolis
                     & 
                        Cincinnati
                     Traction Company, which controls and operates lines from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Greensburg
                     and from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Connersville
                    .
            While Mr. Henry was engaged in forming these companies and building these lines,
                    another man, Mr. Joseph I. Irwin, of 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana, suddenly awoke to the fact that an electric car line from 
                        Columbus
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     would be a paying investment. A survey had been made several years
                    before by other parties, but for some reason the construction work had not been
                    seriously taken up. Mr. Irwin accordingly secured the rights of the old company
                    and began work. This company was incorporated as the 
                  Indianapolis, Columbus
                & Southern. The line was
                    completed from 
                        Franklin
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in January, 1900. It was the first line to enter 
                        Indianapolis
                    , preceding Mr. Henry's line by about six months. In the
                    course of the next few years the line was completed to 
                        Columbus
                    , then to Seymour, and finally, about the first of the year 1908, it
                    was connected with the 
                        Louisville
                     & Southern Indiana Traction Company's lines, and
                    cars now run from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                  Louisville,
                            Kentucky
               .
            These roads were closely followed by roads in all parts of the State. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     & Martinsville Rapid Transit Company, incorporated in 1901,
                    operates a line from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to Martinsville. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     & Eastern, incorporated in 1901, runs  from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Richmond
                    , and thence into 
                        Ohio
                    . The 
                        Muncie
                    , Hartford & 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , incorporated in 1901, operated for a while from 
                        Muncie
                     to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and was finally extended as far as Bluffton by the Indiana Union
                    Traction Company, and from Bluffton to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     by the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     & Wabash Valley Traction Company. In
                    1902 a line was built from 
                        Richmond
                     to 
                        Cambridge City
                     and 
                        Milton
                    , connecting with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     & Eastern. The 
                        South Bend
                    , Laporte & 
                        Michigan City
                     was incorporated in 1902. The Indiana Northern (1903), from 
                        Marion
                     to 
                        Wabash
                    , was built by the Indiana Union Traction Company. The
                            
                  Kokomo, Marion
                & Western (1903), from 
                        Kokomo
                     to 
                        Marion
                    , was built by George J. Marott, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and some eastern capitalists. The 
                        Dayton
                    -
                        Muncie
                     line (1903) was built by the Indiana Union Traction Company from 
                        Muncie
                     to 
                        Union City
                    , thence to 
                  Dayton,
                            Ohio
               . The 
                        Terre Haute
                     Company in 1904 ran from 
                        Terre Haute
                     to 
                        New Harmony
                    ; it later connected with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     & 
                        Plainfield
                     line, running through cars into 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The Indiana Railway Company (1904) connects 
                        Goshen
                     and 
                        South Bend
                    , and has been extended into 
                        Michigan
                    . The 
                        Chicago
                     & Lake Shore (1904) runs from 
                        South Bend
                     to Indiana Harbor, thence to 
                        Chicago
                    . The 
                        Hammond
                     & Whiting (1904) connects those two cities. The 
                        Winona
                     & 
                        Wabash
                     (1904) has been extended until it connects 
                  Goshen, Warsaw
                and 
                        Peru
                    . The 
                        Evansville
                     & 
                        Princeton
                     road was incorporated in 1904. Since then the 
                        Evansville
                     Railway Company has connected 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    , Boonville and 
                        Rockport
                     with 
                        Evansville
                    . The 
                  Cincinnati,
                            Lawrenceburg
                & 
                        Aurora
                     (1904) runs from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Aurora
                    .
            Besides these lines, which are all completed and in operation, there are under
                    construction at the present time the following lines: 
                  Crawfordsville, Covington
                and westward; 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Newcastle
                     and 
                  Toledo;
                            Newcastle
                to
                            
                  Muncie; Newcastle
                to Winchester; 
                        Wabash
                     to 
                        Rochester
                    ; 
                        Peru
                     to 
                  Wabash; Lafayette
                to 
                  Angola; South
                        Bend
                to Laporte; 
                        South Bend
                     to 
                        Michigan City
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    ; 
                        Owensboro
                     to 
                  Cannelton;
                            Vincennes
                to 
                        Princeton
                    ; Anderson to Shirley; 
                        Goshen
                     to 
                        Wawasee
                    , and 
                        Sullivan
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            Lines have also been projected, but not as yet built, from 
                        Vincennes
                    
                     to 
                  Jasper; Goshen
                to
                    Kendallville; 
                        Goshen
                     to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     by a direct line; 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to Anderson; Martinsville to 
                  Bloomington; Danville
                to 
                  Rockville; Lafayette
                to 
                        Covington
                     and westward; 
                        Logansport
                     to 
                  Hammond;
                            Greensburg
                to 
                        Madison
                     and 
                  Jeffersonville;
                            Connersville
                to
                            
                  Milton; Newcastle
                to 
                  Richmond; Richmond
               , Winchester and 
                  Portland; Marion
               , Hartford and 
                  Ridgeville; Portland
                and eastward; 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to 
                  Bryan, Ohio; Auburn
                to 
                  Montpelier, Ohio
               ; and Carmel to 
                        Frankfort
                    , by way of Sheridan. Work has been done on some of these lines, and
                    it is probable that some of them will be completed in the near future, but most
                    of them have been totally abandoned.
            In the beginning all of these roads were operated independently, but, as in all
                    other lines of business, it was found that a large system could be operated at a
                    much smaller cost than that of the small systems. This, together with the
                    current tendency toward expansion and consolidation, led to the combination of
                    the smaller companies into large systems. The Indiana Union Traction Company
                    absorbed a great many of them; the 
                        Indianapolis
                     & 
                        Cincinnati
                     getting some more, and the largest and latest combination, the
                            
                  Terre Haute, Indianapolis
                & Eastern,
                    controlling most of the larger lines not included in the above companies.
            The Indiana Union Traction Company to-day controls and operates the
                            
                  Indianapolis,
                            Logansport
                & 
                        Peru
                     lines; the 
                  Indianapolis, Marion
                & 
                        Wabash
                     lines; the 
                        Muncie
                     & Winchester and the Anderson, Muncie & Bluffton
                    lines.
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     & 
                        Cincinnati
                     company operates the lines from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Connersville
                     and from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Greensburg
                    . From 
                        Connersville
                     a line is projected into 
                        Ohio
                    , which will connect with 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            The 
                  Terre Haute, Indianapolis
                & Eastern
                    company is the newest organization entering 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It was proposed and carried out by Mr. Hugh J. McGowan, of that
                    city, but a great deal of the stock is held by Eastern capitalists. By this
                    consolidation the following lines are controlled and operated: The 
                        Terre Haute
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; the 
                        Terre Haute
                    -
                        Paris
                    , 111.; the 
                        Terre Haute
                    -Clinton; the 
                        Indianapolis
                    -Martinsville; the 
                        Indianapolis
                    -
                        Danville
                    ; the 
                  Indianapolis,
                            Richmond
                &
                    Eastern; the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    -
               
                        Lebanon
                    ; the 
                  Indianapolis,
                            Frankfort
                & 
                        Lafayette
                    , and the 
                        Knightstown
                    -
                        Newcastle
                    .
            The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     & Wabash Valley system has three
                    divisions –the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    -Bluffton; the Fort-
                        Wayne
                    -
                        Logansport
                    , and the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    -
                        Decatur
                    . They can run their cars into 
                        Indianapolis
                     over either the Indiana Union Traction Company's lines or
                    the 
                  Terre Haute, Indianapolis
                & Eastern
                    lines. They connect with the former at Bluffton, 
                  Peru, Logansport
                and 
                        Wabash
                    , and with the latter at 
                        Lafayette
                    .
            The Northen Indiana Railway Company operates the 
                        South Bend
                    , Laporte & 
                        Michigan City
                     and the 
                  South Bend,
                            Goshen
                & 
                        Warsaw
                     lines. The latter line is connected with the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     & W'abash Valley line near 
                        Peru
                    . The 
                  Toledo,
                            Fort Wayne
                & 
                        Chicago
                     operates the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     & Garrett, the Garrett, Waterloo & Kendallville and
                    the Kendallville-Garrett lines. The 
                        Evansville
                     Railway Company has the 
                        Evansville
                     to 
                        Mt. Vernon
                     and the 
                        Evansville
                     to 
                        Owensboro
                     lines.
            Besides these consolidations, there are six independent lines in Indiana. They
                    are: The 
                        Chicago
                    , Lake Shore & 
                        South Bend
                    ; the 
                        Evansville
                     & Southern; the 
                  Kokomo, Marion
               
                    & Western; the 
                        Marion
                    , Bluffton & Eastern; the 
                  Indianapolis, Crawfordsville
                & Western, and the
                            
                  Indianapolis,
                            Columbus
                &
                    Southern. The last two are the only independent lines entering 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The 
                        Indianapolis
                     & 
                        Louisville
                     company operates the through cars between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     over the 
                  Indianapolis, Columbus
                & Southern road.
            Little did Mr. Henry think when he built his first road that by the year 1909
                    there would be approximately 1800 miles of inter-urban track completed and in
                    operation in Indiana, with an average value for construction of
                    $7,150 per mile, the equipment bringing it up to double that amount.
                    And besides this, that there would be almost half as much more under
                    construction, and about as much more projected with a possibility of
                    construction. But when he opened the way there were plenty of men ready to take
                    advantage of it, and the result was a general investment of capital in
                    interurban roads.
            There were many difficulties in the way. At first there was no  law by which interurban companies could condemn
                    land for right-of-way, and their only resource was to buy when they could. This
                    resulted in very crooked roads. This is all done away with now, as they have the
                    same rights as steam roads and can secure right-of-way by condemnation. Another
                    great obstacle was the panic of 1893. This tied up the money so that the
                    promoters could not get enough to build their roads. This was the case with some
                    of Mr. Henry's lines, and probably with the 
                  Indianapolis, Columbus
                & Southern line, as it was
                    surveyed about this time and not built until about six years later.
            When the roads began to connect with 
                        Indianapolis
                    , it was necessary to make some kind of arrangements with the City
                    Street Railway Company to enter the city. Mr. Henry made the first agreement. It
                    was inconvenient and inadequate. The city company took the cars at the city
                    limits and ran them, with their own men, into the city to a terminal provided by
                    the interurban company. As time went on this became more and more inadequate,
                    and another agreement was made allowing the interurban cars to run over the city
                    tracks without change of men, and to make their terminus on 
                        Kentucky
                     avenue, near 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Washington
                     streets. This lasted until the erection of the new Terminal
                    Building.
            As the number of lines entering the city increased, and the traffic on the old
                    ones enlarged, the old terminus became inadequate. Some of the leading
                    interurban men conceived the plan of building a terminal station on the plan of
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Union Railway Station. The result of the idea was the formation of
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Traction and Terminal Company. The new company purchased a site on
                    the corner of 
                        Illinois
                     and Market streets, extending to the alley in both directions. Here
                    a fine nine-story building was erected, extending to the alley on 
                        Illinois
                     street and about seventy-five feet west on Market street. The west
                    part of the lot was given to the waiting-room and car-sheds. The waiting-room
                    will accommodate an enormous number of people, while the car-sheds will
                    accommodate eighteen cars at one time, with a siding at the north end of it for
                    as many more. The tracks are arranged in pairs, with a complete system of  cement walks. This is universally conceded
                    to be the largest and finest interurban terminal station in the world. On the
                    northwest corner of the same square the company has erected substantial and
                    convenient freight depots.
            The Terminal Company secured a franchise from the City Council, permitting them
                    to lay the tracks approaching the station, and made arrangements with the street
                    railway company to permit the cars to run over their tracks into the city. They
                    also arranged with the different interurban companies, granting them all the
                    privileges of the station, provided they would pay to the Terminal Company four
                    cents for every passenger carried over the city tracks. Their offer was gladly
                    accepted, and it has proved a paying investment for all concerned.
            Most of the roads in Indiana are connected with 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and one can take a car at the station and, without more than one
                    change, go to almost any part of the State, and even into 
                  Kentucky, Ohio, Illinois
                or 
                        Michigan
                    . Local cars leave the station, on almost all lines, once every
                    hour, and limited cars about six times a day.
            The passenger traffic on the interurban was an immediate success on almost all
                    lines. Some of them have a net earning of over $3000 per mile per
                    year. In the beginning there was very little freighting done on any of the
                    roads, but it has been found to be a paying investment to equip for it, and all
                    the lines are now engaged in this business. They have at least two freight
                    trains a day on all lines. On some of them they are run very early in the
                    morning, and on others very late at night, to avoid interference with the
                    passenger traffic, but on others they are scheduled just as the freight trains
                    on steam roads. Within the last two years some of the roads have taken to
                    carrying express, and a very few of them carry mail. The express is carried in
                    the baggage-room of the passenger car, while the mail, instead of being carried
                    in a regular mail car and being distributed, is distributed at the post-office
                    and then placed on the car in bags directed to a special destination.
            In the beginning interurbans were built paralleling steam roads in almost all
                    cases. The reason for this, aside from the natural  advantage of direct route between cities, was the
                    great discontent of the people with the accommodations offered by these roads.
                    The steam roads totally ignored the electric lines until a few of them began to
                    operate their cars. They soon saw what it meant for them to have a car line
                    paralleling them, which gave hourly service and at a much reduced rate. When
                    this dawned upon them they would gladly have bought up their paralleling
                    competitors, but their charters permitted them only to extend their business by
                    an extension of their roads, and forbade them buying roads to put a stop to
                    competition. Thus, after the interurban roads were begun, the steam roads were
                    completely shut out from them, and the only thing left was to meet the
                    competition involved. Some of them have done this by cutting rates, but others
                    have practically abandoned local traffic to the interurbans.
            The interurban business has developed into a great industry in Indiana,
                    furnishing employment for a great army of men at very good wages. It is also
                    very advantageous to travelers. They can come or go at any hour of the day,
                    where previously they had to spend half their time waiting for trains.
            It has been very beneficial to the cities and larger towns, but has been almost
                    the destruction of many small ones through which it passes. It has carried the
                    trade away from small places to the larger ones, where people have a larger
                    selection. Some examples of this class of towns may be found on the Indiana
                    Union Traction line running through 
                        Noblesville
                    . Cicero, about six miles north, before the interurban went through,
                    was a good business town, but since the car line was built the trade has gone to 
                        Noblesville
                    . As a result, several men have been forced out of business, and
                    most of the stores are for sale. Carmel, just about the same distance south, is
                    another example.
            The frequent running of cars on all of the lines has made it possible for the
                    business men of the city to live out beyond the city limits and still conduct
                    their business, going to and from their work on the cars. The result is that all
                    along the lines for several miles into the country we have nice, new, modern
                    dwellings, occupied by the city business men, city residence districts  being almost indefinitely extended. The
                    interurban has also been of great benefit to the farmer. Before interurban days,
                    when he needed repairs for machinery he had to wait the larger part of a day for
                    the railroad train; but now he can take the electric car, go into town, get his
                    repairs, and be home again in less time than he formerly spent in waiting.
                    Social intercourse, quick access to markets, access to schools and colleges,
                    have been made possible to an extent heretofore unthought of.
            Few industries have had so rapid a development, and, if it continues, as
                    indications point that it will, Indiana will, in a few more years, be covered by
                    a network of interurban lines reaching to all points, and binding the State
                    together with bands of steel so closely that it will in reality be only one
                    great community.
         
         
         
            INDEX OF HISTORICAL ARTICLES IN INDIANAPOLIS NEWSPAPERS.
            PREPARED BY MISS FLORENCE VENN
            
                    Reference Librarian, Indiana State Library.
                
            Abbreviations: Ind. N., 
                        Indianapolis
                     News; Ind. St., 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star; mag. sec, magazine section; p., page; c, column.
            
               Battle-flag Commission's work, Ind. N., July 3, p. 13.
               Blaine's campaign, recollections of, Col. W. R. Holloway, Ind.
                        St., May 16, p. 11, c. 2.
               Brigham family history, Ind. St., Aug. 22, mag, sec, p. 3.
               Bright, Jesse D., Letter, Ind. St., Aug. 16, p. 8, c. 3.
               Buena Vista, Lasselle's map of, at the State Library, Ind. N.,
                        May 19, p. 18, c. 4. 
                     Indiana soldiers vindicated, Ind. St., Aug. 29, mag. sec, p.
                            4.
                  
               
               Burr family genealogy, Ind. St., May 16, mag. sec, p. 8.
               Canal lock at 
                            Missouri
                         St., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind. N., Mar. 27, p. 4, c. 3.
               Civil War Period, Reminiscences of Col. W. R. Holloway, Ind. St., July 25,
                        p. 30, c. 1; Aug. 16, p. 8, c. 2; Aug. 8, p. 7, c. 2.
                     Surviving colonels of, Ind. N., July 15, p. 7, c. 6.
                     Surviving generals of, Ind. St., May 30, mag. sec, p. 2.
                  
               
               Confederate soldiers in Indiana, Ind. St., May 30, mag. sec, p. 7.
               Corbin family history, Ind. St., July 25, mag. sec, p. 7, c. 5.
               Corn growing in Indiana, Ind. St., May 23, mag. sec, p. 4.
               Cost of living in Indiana, Ind. St., June 13, mag. sec, p. 3.
               Crop report for Indiana, Ind. N., April 12, p. 1, c. 8.
               Earlham College history, Ind. St., June 6, mag. sec, p. 2.
               Fortville, reminiscenes by Silas Helms, Ind. N., July 24, p. 10.
               Gibson family history, Ind. St., June 6, mag. sec, p. 3.
               Gordon family genealogy, Ind. St., April 11, mag. sec, p. 4.
               Grand Army of the Republic in Indiana, Ind. St., May 30, mag. sec, p. 6.
               Hale family history, Ind. St., mag. sec, p. 7, c. 1.
               
               Henry family genealogy, Ind. St., July n, mag. sec, p. 7.
               Hodges family genealogy, Ind. St., April 25, mag. sec, p. 6.
               Holman, Jesse, Ind. N., July 10, p. 4, c. 3.
               Howard family genealogy, Ind. St., June 13, mag. sec, p. 7.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , old governor's mansion, by Christian Schrader, Ind.
                        N., Aug. 19, p. 14, c. 3.
               Early Indiana days, by Wm. G. Ballantine, Ind. N., Aug. 28, p. 6, c. 2.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         building permits in 1908, Ind. St., May 4, p. 4, c 1.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         in the Civil War period, Ind. N., May 1, p. 2, c 4.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         fire loss in 1908, Ind. St., April 22, p. 14, c. 3.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Gazette, old advertisements in, Ind. N., May 29, p. 5, c 3.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , old stage coach barn, Ind. N., June 12, p. 22, c. 3.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , Roumanians in, Ind. St., Aug. 29, p. 2, c. 1.
               
                  
                     Indianapolis, Washington
                   street in
                        early days, Christian Schrader, Ind. N., May 15, p. 2, c. 4.
               Lake system of Indiana, Ind. N., July 30, p. 6, c 5.
               Ludlow family history, Ind. St., Aug. 1, mag. sec, p. 6.
               
                  
                            Marion County
                         payers of taxes on $10,000 or more, Ind. N., Aug.
                        31, pp. 8, 9.
               
                  
                            Marion County
                         jail, by Christian Schrader, Ind. N., June 29, p. 3, c. 2.
               Methodist centennial in 
                            Wayne County
                         at 
                            Richmond
                        , Ind. N., Aug. 19, p. 19, c. 2; Aug. 18, p. 16, c. 3.
               Mexican War, Indiana in the, by S. B. Sweet, Ind. St., June 20, p. 20, c.
                        1.
               Mexican War, reminiscences by Gen. Geo. F. McGinnis, Ind. N., May 7, p. 2,
                        c. 3.
                     Veterans attending reunion, Ind. St., Aug. 19, p. 5, c 5.
                  
               
               Miami Indians in Indiana, Ind. St., Aug. 22, mag. sec, p. 1.
               Military life in early days in the Lasselle papers, Ind. N., Aug. 11, p.
                        3, c 2.
               Mississinewa battle in 1812, Ind. N., Aug. 30, p. 2, c 2.
               Morgan's raid at Corydon, Ind. N., July 10, p. 13.
               Morton, Oliver P., recollections by Col. W. R. Holloway, Ind. St., May 9,
                        p. 11, c 2.
               
               Morton, Oliver P., Ind. St., July 4, p. 4, c. 2.
               Museum of Edwin M. Worth at Springport, Ind. N., May 29, p. 13, c. 2.
               Negro settlement at 
                            Norwood
                        , Ind. St., Aug. 1, p. 25, c. 1.
               Owen, Robert Dale, his work for women, Ind. St., Aug. 15, mag. sec, p. 3.
               Parke, Benjamin, founder of law library, Ind. N., July 3, p. 12, c. 1.
               
                  
                            Peru
                        , Ind., history, Ind. St., Aug. 8, p. 24, c. 1.
               Pott family history, Ind. St., July 8, mag. sec, p. 7.
               Price family genealogy, Ind. St., April 18, mag. sec, p. 4.
               Primary election, Ind. N., Aug. 27, p. 7, c 3; Ind. St., Aug. 27, p. 14,
                        c. 3; Ind. N., Aug. 26, p. 1, c. 1.
               Railway museum at Purdue University, Ind. N., p. 13, c. 2.
               Saloons, statistics of, Ind. St., May 10, p. 1, c 7; June 10, p. 10, c. 2;
                        June 28, p. 10, c. 5; Ind. N., June 19, p. 12, c 1; Ind. St., Aug. 29, p. 3,
                        c 1.
               Shively, Benjamin F., autobiographical sketch, Ind. St., April 18, mag.
                        sec, p. 5.
               Slavery clause in will of John G. Shaw, dated 1841, Ind. N., Aug. 2, p. 8,
                        c 5.
               Strother family genealogy, Ind. St., May 2, mag. sec, p. 7, c 1.
               Telephone, first in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind. N., May 21, p. 21, c. 3.
               Tucker family history, Ind. St., May 9, mag. sec, p. 7.
               Voorhees, Dan W., Letter, Ind. St., Aug. 16, p. 8, c. 3.
               Wallace, Lew, anecdotes, Ind. N., July 22, p. 6, c. 5.
               Williams, James D., and the campaign of 1876, by Col. W. R. Holloway, Ind.
                        St., May 23, p. 8, c. 2.
            
         
         
         
            EDITORIAL.
            A new department of the magazine starts in this issue-the listing of articles in
                    newspapers containing historical material. It is hoped to make this valuable for
                    many purposes and for many readers. More and more Indiana newspapers are giving
                    a place in their columns not only to news, but also to articles upon local and
                    State history. Some of these are perhaps of little value, but many of them are
                    carefully written by men who are deservedly classed as authorities in the
                    subjects of which they write. A great deal of this material is published only in
                    the daily newspapers. These might very well be called daily not only on account
                    of the number of their issues, but because they are also daily destroyed.
                    Nowhere outside of libraries and newspaper offices are files of daily papers
                    preserved. Even where they are preserved in libraries the awkward size of their
                    pages, the quality of their paper and their print, and above all the enormous
                    amount of material they contain, usually make a search for information
                    impossible.
            Various devices are being tried to make accessible material of value in
                    newspapers. Perhaps the commonest are the scrap-book and various systems of
                    filing newspaper clippings. Neither of these is beneath the dignity of an
                    historian. Mr. Talcott Williams, of the 
                  
                            Philadelphia
                         Press, in an address at the meeting of the American
                    Historical Association in 1908, dwelt at length upon the practicability and
                    desirability of studying recent history through newspaper clippings. This,
                    however, involves more time, space and trouble than most of us can command. It
                    is of little value to pay some one else to do it, or to use some one
                    else's scrap-book or clipping file, for no two minds work alike, and no
                         man can easily track another's
                    steps through alphabetical subject indices.
            Inasmuch, however, as one can ordinarily obtain the use of a complete file of a
                    local paper in the local library, and all of the important papers of the State
                    are on file at the State libraries, an alphabetical list of articles in the
                    newspapers can be easily made as they appear. Published quarterly, as this
                    magazine is published, it is thought that such a list would make available most
                    of the important material on any given subject. It has seemed to the editor that
                    current events, while more important, perhaps, than accounts of historic
                    matters, stand in less need of an index. They are naturally followed most easily
                    in the order in which they appear in the newspapers, chronologically. An article
                    upon Morgan's raid, or the Purdue railway museum, however, can never be
                    located in a paper except by chance, and the footsteps of chance can never be
                    traced. An index, appearing in the proper place and time, will hereafter be
                    furnished in this magazine for articles containing historical material dealing
                    with Indiana appearing in Indiana papers. The listing of an article is not an
                    indication that it is authoritative, as no attempt will be made to value
                    articles, but only to make them accessible to those who wish to use them. For
                    this issue only the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Star and the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News have been taken up, but in later issues other papers
                    throughout the State will be searched.
         
         
            NOTES.
            The Ohio Valley Historical Society will hold its annual
                    meeting at 
                        Frankfort
                    , Ky., from the 14th to the 16th, inclusive, of October.
            Mr. J. R. H. Moore, of 
                        Harvard
                     University, has joined the history faculty of Manual Training High
                    School, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
      
      
         
      
   
