
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 102, Issue 4, pages 299-399. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:102+issue:4+year:2006&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            EDITOR'S NOTE
            ELFRIEDA LANG
            As this issue of the IMH went to press, we received news of the death of Elfrieda
                    Lang, at the age of 102. Lang, a 
                        Posey County
                     native, received her BA, MA, and PhD in history from Indiana University. From 1945
                    through 1953, she served as assistant editor of the IMH under editor John Barnhart. During the 1940s
                    and 1950s she also authored a number of articles in the magazine, most focusing on
                    nineteenth-century migration to Indiana and on German Americans in the state. More recent readers of
                    the magazine may recognize her name from the title pages of two of the IMHs three twenty-five-year
                    indexes, which she initiated and edited. For many years after the creation of these invaluable
                    volumes (the contents of which have since been placed online at the IMH website,
                    www.indiana.edu/~imaghist), Lang's alphabetized boxes of index cards rested on the shelves
                    of a succession of associate editors. She spent most of her subsequent career working for the IUB
                    library system, including a long and productive term at the Lilly Library. Former IMH associate editor Lorna Lutes Sylvester recalls Lang as an editor and historian who
                    "devoted her life to her career and contributed beyond measure to knowledge in her
                    field."
            INDIANA ASSOCIATION OF HISTORIANS
            On February 23-24, 2007, the IMH hosts the annual meeting of the Indiana
                    Association of Historians (IAH) in the Indiana Memorial Union at IU 
                        Bloomington
                    . This year's theme, "Historians in Public," provides an
                    opportunity for registrants to enjoy a program of papers and discussions on the diverse ways in
                    which history makes itself vital to the lives of a range of audiences. Panels on historical
                    documentaries, on journalists' use of historical research, on innovative collecting
                    projects, and on  the management of historic sites will join
                    presentations of the latestscholarly research in history. Keynote speaker Dwight Pitcaithley,
                    professorof history at 
                        New Mexico
                     State University and former chief historian for the National Parks Service, will bring
                    to 
                        Bloomington
                     his perspective on the controversies and developments that he has witnessed in a long
                    career on the front lines of public history. Special receptions and tours will add to the
                    experience. To learn more about the IAH and how to register for its 2007 meeting, visit the
                    conference website at http://www.indiana.edu/~imaghist/IAH/index.html, or call or write the IMH.
            
            IMH DIGITIZATION GRANT
            Working with the IMH, Indiana University's Digital Library Program has
                    secured a grant from the Indiana State Library which will allow for the digitization of the
                    journal's full text dating back to its first issue in 1905. Work for the grant project,
                    which was announced in September 2006, has already begun in earnest, with the target of having the
                    full run of the journal freely accessible to the public before the end of 2007. While the most
                    recent issues will continue to be available only to IMH subscribers and Indiana
                    Historical Society members, the bulk of the journal's 101-year run will now be fully
                    text-searchable, allowing students, scholars, and home users not only to identify the site of useful
                    material but to gain direct access to that material through their computers. As in the past, the IMH will continue to furnish recent issues (post-2000) to the users of the EBSCO
                    Academic Premier and History Cooperative databases.
         
         
         
            Back Home Again (and Again) in Indiana: E. Howard Cadle, Christian Populism, and the Resilience of
                    American Fundamentalism
            THEO ANDERSON
            Four days before Christmas 1942, the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times published an obituary for 
                        Indianapolis
                    -based evangelist E. Howard Cadle. Drawing from his 1932 autobiography, the Times offered a summary of Cadle's career. Having spent his youth entangled in
                    various vices, so the story went, Cadle converted to Christianity as a young adult and
                    "promised his mother he would reform and spend his life helping unfortunates."
                    Success in several business ventures led to the construction of the Cadle Tabernacle in downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1921. After losing control of the building within two years, Cadle mounted a
                    successful campaign to buy it back in 1931. Using the Tabernacle as his base of operation, he gained
                    a vast regional audience over the course of the next decade by becoming an "evangelist of
                    the air," as the Times's headline tagged him. The moniker
                    possessed a double meaning: it referred both to his practice of conducting revival meetings in
                    distant locations, 
                  Theo Anderson is a Ph.D. candidate in modern U.S. history at Yale University. His briefer
                            account of Cadle's life appeared as "How He Came Back: E. Howard Cadle and
                            the Cadle Tabernacle," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History,
                            17 (Winter 2005), 14-25.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            -based evangelist E. Howard Cadle, c. 1932 How I Came Bach
                            (1932)
                which he reached by his private airplane, and to his daily radio program on 
                        Cincinnati
                     station WLW. The obituarist noted that Cadle "broadcasts his Sunday and
                    weekday preachments to an audience that in 1939 answered with 4,000 letters a week."1
            
            
               
                  1 "Cadle, Evangelist of the Air, Dies," 
                            New York
                        
                        Times, December 21, 1942. Locally, Cadle's death made front-page
                        news. "National Fame Won By Cadle," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Times, December 21, 1942; "Cadle, Evangelist, Dies; 111 10
                        Weeks," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, December 21, 1942. Small obituaries also appeared in far-flung
                        newspapers, for example, "E. Howard Cadle," 
                            San Francisco
                        
                        Chronicle, December 21, 1942.
            
            
            Cadle's obituary was by no means the first notice that he had received from national
                    publications. In March 1939, Life had published a five-page photo spread about his
                    evangelistic pursuits, describing him as the most recent "in the long line of free-lance
                    revivalists who have won fame and fortune by exhorting U.S. sinners to repentance." The
                    same year, Radio Guide characterized him as "a combination of Horatio
                    Alger's most persistent and heroic character, Henry Ford, and Billy Sunday."2
            
            Despite the attention that Cadle's life and death attracted in major media outlets, his fame
                    proved fleeting. The Cadle Tabernacle stood at the corner of 
                        New Jersey
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     Streets for twenty-five years after the founder's death, but both the building
                    and the evangelistic operation began declining rapidly in the mid-1950s. Historian Kenneth Jackson,
                    researching a book about the Ku Klux Klan in the 1960s, observed the structure in its last days and
                    described it as "an unwashed and unimpressive building .... The creaking floors are now
                    covered with dust; the air is musty. The ghostlike atmosphere is quite unlike that which prevailed
                    in the 1920s, when the auditorium reverberated with the prayers and hymns of the
                        faithful."3 The Cadle family sold the building soon afterward, and
                    the new owner razed it to make way for a parking lot. Cadle's radio program continued under
                    the supervision of his two eldest children; when it ceased production after their deaths in the
                    early 1990s, the last lingering trace of the evangelist's erstwhile fame, or even his
                    existence, faded from public consciousness. Today the most visible surviving tribute to Cadle and
                    his Tabernacle can be found not in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but 100 miles south of the city, where an etched rendering of the Tabernacle on the
                    back of Cadle's tombstone in a small graveyard in 
                        Fredericksburg
                     stands as a curious testament to a nearly forgotten past.
            Cadle has been nearly lost to memory among historians as well. He plays no role in scholarly accounts
                    of early twentieth-century religious history, nor has there been a scholarly article focused on him.
                    This neglect is not entirely without reason. Cadle's ministry was neither the first of its
                    kind nor the largest. By the time he built his structure in downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1921, tabernacle revivalism was fading 
                  
                     2 "Cadle of 
                                Indianapolis
                             Streamlines Evangelism with Radio, Airplane, Glass-Fronted Baptismal
                            Tank," Life, March 27, 1939, p. 73; Francis Chase, Jr.,
                            "America on Its Knees," Radio Guide, June 30, 1939, p.
                            39. See also "Cash & Cadle," Time, March 13,
                            1939, pp. 38-39.
                  
                     3 Kenneth T. Jackson, The Ku Klux Klan in the City,
                            1915-1930 (
                                New York
                            , 1967), 144.
               
                     quickly, and the earliest entrepreneurs in religious radio had
                    been broadcasting for nearly a decade by the time Cadle debuted his own radio program in 1932. And
                    though Cadle claimed a huge audience for his program, it was limited to a loyal base in the Midwest
                    and upper South. It never achieved truly national significance.4
            
            If Cadle's legacy is slim, his story is nonetheless important, for it offers a case study in
                    the techniques that have allowed evangelicalism and fundamentalism to survive and thrive into the
                    twenty-first century. His life straddled two dramatically different eras. Born in rural Indiana two
                    decades after the Civil War, he died in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the midst of World War II. His lifetime witnessed dramatic industrialization and
                    urbanization. Biblical criticism and widespread acceptance of Darwinian evolution threatened the
                    Bible's authority and literal truth. American universities emerged as research-oriented,
                    value-neutral institutions that produced experts in relatively narrow disciplinary fields.5
            
            In the religious realm, the evangelical consensus that dominated the culture at Cadle's
                    birth shattered as he approached middle age, leaving him, and others like him, apparent losers in
                    the fundamentalistmodernist controversy. Historians traditionally held that Clarence
                    Darrow's triumph at the 1925 Scopes Trial in 
                  Dayton, Tennessee
               , signaled
                    the beginning of fundamentalism's demise. Recent scholarship has thoroughly dispatched that
                    myth, suggesting that fundamentalists were momentarily humiliated in 1925 and temporarily retreated
                    from the cultural spotlight, but that they had not disappeared and were not dormant.6 Cadle's career serves as a prime example. After a string of failures and
                    embarrassments in the mid-1920s, he rebounded in the 1930s to achieve his greatest success as a
                    full-time evangelist. His life was, in brief, a microcosm of fundamentalism's resilience in
                    American culture. 
                  
                     4 In 1999, Cadle tied for ninth place in a scholar's panel
                            ranking of the century's "top ten religious stories" in Indiana.
                            Bill Theobald, "Scholars Pick Century's Top 10 Religious
                            Stories," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, November 14, 1999.
                  
                     5 James Turner, Without God, Without Creed: The Origins
                                of Unbelief in America (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1985); Alan Trachtenberg, The Incorporation of America: Society
                                in the Gilded Age (
                                New York
                            , 1982); T.J.Jackson Lears, No Place of Grace: Antimodernism and
                                the Transformation of American Culture, 1880-1920 (
                                New York
                            , 1981).
                  
                     6 Joel A. Carpenter, Revive Us Again; The Reawakening of
                                American Fundamentalism (
                                New York
                            , 1997); Edward J. Larson, Summer for the Gods: The Scopes Trial
                                and America's Continuing Debate over Science and Religion (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1997); James Ault, Spirit and Flesh: Life in a
                                Fundamentalist Baptist Church (
                                New York
                            , 2004).
               
                     He embodied the soul of the movement-the methods and the
                    message that have allowed it to survive setbacks, regroup, and even thrive.7
            
            MISSPENT YOUTH (1884-1914)
            Most of what we can know about Cadle prior to 1921 comes from his autobiography, How I
                        Came Back (1932). By Cadle's own account, his ancestors migrated from eastern 
                        Tennessee
                     to southern Indiana in the early 1830s. Both his grandfather and father farmed in the
                    small town of 
                        Fredericksburg
                    , situated 100 miles south of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 30 miles northwest of 
                  Louisville,
                            Kentucky
               , and about a dozen miles from
                    the 
                        Washington County
                     capital, 
                        Salem
                    . Cadle described his parents as "plain Anglo-Saxon folks" and 
                        Fredericksburg
                     as "a little village of about 200 population, down where they do not raise
                    much of anything but sassafras and Democrats." He was born in a log cabin in this village
                    on August 25, 1884. From the very beginning, he recounts, he knew himself to be different from other
                    children: "I was always full of energy and wanted to get a ‘bang’ out
                    of life. I started that way very early in life. I always wanted to ride the wildest horse we had,
                    and when I could not find one wild enough, I would ride a steer."8
            
            Cadle's account of his childhood and early adulthood repeatedly emphasized his strong
                    rebellious streak and juxtaposed it with the virtuous women in his life. He wrote that his mother, a
                    Christian since childhood, helped to spark a revival in 
                        Fredericksburg
                     by raising money to 
                  
                     7 Definitions of evangelicalism and fundamentalism vary, but
                            sufficient agreement permits working definitions of these substantially overlapping camps.
                            Evangelicals believe in the importance of a conversion experience to the Christian life, as
                            well as the efficacy of Jesus's death in making human redemption possible. In
                            addition, they stress the importance of the Bible as the ultimate source of wisdom and the
                            preeminent guide to human conduct. To this core belief system, fundamentalists add an
                            unwavering commitment to literalism in biblical interpretation; a premillennialist
                            eschatology, which predicts an imminent, apocalyptic battle between the forces of good and
                            evil; and a strong separatist impulse, which moves them to perpetually identify and
                            stigmatize "impurities" both within the Christian tradition and the wider
                            culture. Mark Noll adds a "zealous defense of an idealized nineteenth-century
                            American Christianity" as a defining feature of the fundamentalist tradition. Cadle
                            fits comfortably within both camps, which I occasionally group together as
                            "conservative Christianity." Noll, "Evangelicalism" and
                            "Fundamentalism," in A Companion to American Thought,
                            ed. Richard Wightman Fox and James Kloppenberg (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1995); Carpenter, Revive Us Again, 3-12; George
                            Marsden, Understanding Fundamentalism and Evangelicalism (Grand Rapids,
                            Mich., 1991).
                  
                     8 E. Howard Cadle, How I Came Back (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1932), 13.
               
                     pay for a preacher to come to the town. She and a friend had
                    become concerned about male feuding and believed a revivalist would have a taming influence. When
                    they eventually persuaded one to conduct meetings, the results were spectacular: "an
                    old-fashioned revival broke out which lasted six weeks, and which brought into the Kingdom
                    practically the entire neighborhood. Men who had threatened to take the lives of other men, locked
                    arms and sang together, ‘What a Friend We Have in Jesus.’"
                    Cadle's father converted, and a permanent church was established.9
            
            Despite his parents' example, Cadle resisted conversion during the revival. Nor, despite his
                    family's hopes, did he convert at any time during the remaining years of his youth.
                    Instead, he began dabbling in the vices that would dominate his adolescence. He cadged his first
                    drink from men in a local saloon at the age of twelve-"[f]rom the very first, I loved the
                    taste and effect of liquor"-and learned to play poker with friends, "using grains
                    of corn for poker chips."10
            
            Late in his teenage years, Cadle met his future wife, Ola Collier, a telephone operator, and
                    "I had occasion to go through the exchange many times." In December 1904, they
                    married: he was twenty, she was seventeen. They settled briefly on his father's farm, but
                    after a cycle of planting and harvesting Cadle longed for bigger things. He and Ola moved west,
                    settling in 1905 in 
                        Oklahoma
                     City, where he found a job unloading potatoes from railroad cars. He soon made friends,
                    "for God had given me a likeable personality," as Cadle wrote. "However,
                    I met some acquaintances which were not conducive to building character." Cadle joined his
                    friends at local saloons after work and began drinking heavily. But his drinking proved less severe
                    a problem than his carousing or gambling. "There is a fascination to gambling," he
                    wrote. "I would rather my boy become a drunkard than a gambler." After staying
                    about a year in Okalahoma City-long enough to lose "the respect and confidence of many
                    people"-he and Ola decided to return to Indiana.11
            
            Arriving in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the couple found the city "crowded with gamblers and crooked
                    politicians." Cadle quickly resumed the gambling lifestyle he had left behind in 
                        Oklahoma
                    -though on the business side 
                  
                     9 Ibid., 23. Cadle and his wife, in addition to several other family
                            members, are buried in the cemetery adjacent to the church.
                  
                     10 Ibid., 17, 45.
                  
                     11 Ibid., 25,42, 45,47.
               
                     this time. He bought several slot machines and placed them in
                    restaurants, hotels, and saloons throughout Indiana, and when the venture proved profitable, he
                    expanded his operations to 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    . But the boom times ended when Cadle lost his machines to a ruling by the Indiana
                    Supreme Court that judged them to be gambling devices. He next opened a "fine saloon and
                    wine room" on North 
                        Illinois
                     Street in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . "I prospered for a time," Cadle wrote, "but I met many
                    beautiful girls, and it was not long until they had the proceeds of my business, and I finally lost
                    the fine saloon." He later returned to the saloon he had once owned to wash dishes for
                    $9 a week, until he was fired and was "kicked out the back door" for
                    his lax work ethic.12
            
            A doctor's diagnosis that Cadle suffered from Bright's disease (infection of the
                    kidneys) culminated this string of reverses. Given six months to live, Cadle found himself with
                    "[n]o friends, no money; and sentenced to die." He decided to return home to
                    "see if mother would take me back." Though his father had banned him from the
                    farm, Cadle's mother "gathered me into her arms tenderly, covered my swollen face
                    with her kisses, and I thought I was resting in an angel's arms. ... I never got such
                    tender treatment from any human being as I did that day from mother." They prayed together
                    through the afternoon but "no relief seemed to come to my soul, and so all through the
                    night I prayed. When morning came, the load was not lifted yet." He went downstairs, where
                    his mother "persuaded me to lie down on her bed," and soon fell asleep. When he
                    awoke, the world seemed suddenly, strangely new-and he felt like a new man: "[A] 11 the
                    beauty of heaven seemed to burst into the windows. The old, dead apple tree seemed to be in full
                    bloom and I could hear the rustle of the wings of angels of mercy. My sins were washed away! I arose
                    as my conversion dawned on me and started to greet my mother, but I did not need to say a word, I
                    leaped into her arms. ‘It's done, it's done, the great transaction is
                    done!’ she sang joyfully."13
            
            
               
                  12 Ibid., 48, 56, 58. The 
                            Indianapolis
                         city directory for these years provides little in the way of confirmation or
                        contradiction of his story. Cadle's name does not appear in 1906; for the next two
                        years his occupation is listed as "janitor"; and in 1909 he bears the odd
                        title of "Department of Fish and Game commissioner, statehouse." For the next
                        four years, he disappears from the directory, reappearing in 1914 in connection with a
                        restaurant on North 
                            Illinois
                         Street, possibly the saloon from which he was "kicked out the back
                        door." City Directories of the 
                                United States
                            , 1902-1935: 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana (Woodbridge, Conn., 1985).
               
                  13 Cadle, How I Came Back, 59-63. The ecstatic quality
                        of Cadle's conversion account mirrors that of numerous other autobiographical
                        accounts-most notably, perhaps, that of revivalist
            
            
            Such is the essence of Howard Cadle's conversion story as recounted in his autobiography. It
                    happened in March 1914, when he was twenty-nine and almost exactly at the midpoint of his life. It
                    became the narrative touchstone to which he would persistently point, in print and in person,
                    throughout his life.14 "Without modesty," as one obituary
                    writer put it, "he would depict his past as a drunkard, wastrel and professional gambler,
                    to draw converts with his fiery, dramatic delivery"15
            
            BIRTH OF A SALESMAN (1914-1921)
            In the years following his conversion, Cadle worked primarily as a salesman. He began with a job
                    selling suits and then found work for the National Biscuit Company making $30 a week.
                    "The following Sunday morning," he recalled, "we went to Sunday school
                    and church. I had $3 for the work of the Lord .... My health was much better,
                        too."16 As his health continued to improve, his network of contacts
                    broadened and he became one the company's top salesmen. In addition to biscuits, Cadle
                    began selling automobiles, and he did so well that he was appointed the sales manager of a
                    dealership, which he and a business partner soon bought out. In 1916, a sales visit to a dingy
                    shoe-repair store sparked a dream of "a nice shop, a large shop, with plenty of waiting
                    rooms for those who wanted shoe repairs made ‘on the spot,’" located
                    in "the very heart of the city." He proposed the idea to his partner, and soon
                    "we opened up the first high-class shoe repair shop in the 
                        United States
                    ." It proved such a success that he decided to buy out his partner and pursue
                    shoe repair full-time. With the help of a loan from Governor James Goodrich, he expanded the
                    business into a chain; by the end of 1918, he 
                  Charles G. Finney. Robert H. Abzug, Cosmos Crumbling: American Reform and the
                                Religious Imagination (
                                New York
                            , 1994).
                  
                     14 Cadle's story apparently sold well during his lifetime and
                            retained its market appeal long after his demise. Sales figures for How I Came
                                Back are unknowable, but nearly a decade after the founder's death, the
                            ministry's monthly publication, Cadle Call, advertised the book
                            as "now in the tenth edition." It added that "hardly an issue of
                            the Cadle Call is published without one or more letters in it, telling how
                            Mr. Cadle's life story . . . has brought salvation and great spiritual blessing
                            into lives and homes." "Thousands Helped by Reading the Life Story of E.
                            Howard Cadle," Cadle Call (August 1951), 1.
                  
                     15 "Cadle, Evangelist, Dies," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, December 21, 1942.
                  
                     16 Cadle, How I Came Back, 75.
               
                     wrote, "I had twenty-two stores in various cities of
                    the Middle West. My company's earnings were $85,000 clear."17
            
            Cadle's salesmanship skills were confirmed by those who knew him. "I always said
                    that I never wanted a pair of shoes that he liked, because he could talk you out of them,"
                    said Thelma Moore, a pianist who once worked for Cadle. "He knew how to talk to you and
                    persuade you, and yet without you realizing it. It was almost like you didn't recognize
                    what was happening. You would just do it. Everybody knew that he was really a salesman from the word
                        go."18
            
            In 1920, Cadle's burgeoning success allowed him to venture into Christian philanthropy. In 
                        Louisville
                    , the site of so many adventures in his gambling days, he built a 1,200-seat tabernacle,
                    which he then donated to the United Brethren Church. A plaque near the building's entrance
                    announced that it was "erected by E. Howard Cadle in honor of his mother, whose prayers
                    saved him from a gambler's and a drunkard's grave." A local newspaper
                    reported that Cadle intended to multiply the tabernacles "throughout southern Indiana and
                    parts of 
                        Kentucky
                    ," just as he had done with his shoe-repair shops. They would serve as
                    "anemployment bureau in connection with the churches" and "be open every
                    day of the year for those seeking aid."19
            
            
               
                  17 Ibid., 88, 92. The size of Goodrich's loan is an inconsistency
                        in Cadle's story (the autobiography puts the amount at $40,000; in other
                        accounts Cadle cites it as $25,000 or $30,000). The city directory tells
                        the same story, listing Cadle as a salesman for the Loose Wiles Biscuit Company (1915), as a
                        salesman for the National Biscuit Company (1916), as president of the Mertz-Cadle Sales Company
                        (1917), as a shoemaker (1918), and as president of American Shoe Repair (1919), with repair
                        shops on East Market and North 
                            Illinois
                         Streets and offices in the United Building on North 
                            Illinois
                        . City Directories of the 
                                United States
                            , 1902-1935: 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana.
               
               
                  18 Thelma Moore, interview with author, July 1996. In the summer of 1995,1
                        began researching the Cadle Tabernacle for my thesis-Theodore Slutz, "E. Howard Cadle:
                        Conversion, Capitalism, and Christian Populism in Early Twentieth-Century America" (MA
                        thesis, Indiana University-Purdue University 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 2000). The following spring, the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star published an article about my research. "Researcher Revives the
                        Memory of Local Christian Evangelist," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, April 20, 1996. In response to the article, I received several dozen
                        phone calls from people-local and distant-who had listened to the Cadle program or worked for
                        Cadle. Many of these people agreed to share their memories, and the quotes that appear in this
                        article are taken from those interviews. Unfortunately, exact dates were not recorded.
               
                  19 "Tabernacle Built Here By 
                            Indianapolis
                         Man," 
                            Louisville
                        
                        Courier-Journal, May 28, 1920 Cadle's mother had helped found a
                        United Brethren Church in his boyhood; after his conversion, he joined the First United Brethren
                        Church in 
                            Indianapolis
                         and formally remained a member until his death.
            
            
            The 
                        Louisville
                     tabernacle served as the site of a month-long series of evangelistic meetings. Cadle
                    spoke on at least one occasion, the week after the building's formal dedication. A
                    journalist reported that, with his mother standing beside him, Cadle "told of his passage
                    ‘through the depths’ and of his rise to wealth"-subjects inextricably
                    linked for Cadle. "I am now riding in a $7,000 car and living in a
                    $30,000 house," he said. "Only through the grace of God and the prayers
                    of my mother could I be doing this today."20
            
            At about the same time, back in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , he began telling his conversion story to various groups around the city, including a
                    Bible class "in one of the largest Presbyterian churches in the city, the teacher of which
                    was Governor James P. Goodrich." In mid-January 1921, he appeared at the YMCA's
                    "Big Meeting," where, as the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star reported, he "told simply and without any attempt at oratory his
                    experiences with crime and fair dealing."21 More than thirty years
                    later, one man recalled the talk vividly in a letter to Cadle's son:
                  
                     
                        All eyes and ears were attentive to this unusual story that he told. As I remember on
                                    that day, he was not a gifted speaker; there were breaks in his delivery much as a
                                    school boy's first appearance before the public; awkward like, not finding
                                    a place or a way with his hands. But his words were clearly spoken, and as clearly
                                    and fully understood by his listeners, making it evident that many in the audience
                                    were known to him and he to them. He talked in their language, and made it plain to
                                    them that he was no longer one of their group, but pleading that they become a man
                                    of God, as he had, and forsake their manner of living .... We marveled at E. Howard
                                    Cadle-this man we knew-who could, and would, bare his past life of sin to the men
                                    who knew him better than I; and then in the same hour, so forcibly evangelize those
                                    1,600 men who sat before him with unbroken attention. When he had finished speaking,
                                    this vast audience surrounded him with hand-clasps, with cheers, and with volumes of
                                    words-thus confessing they had faith in what he had said and done in their
                                        presence.22
                        
                     
                  
               
                    
                  
                     20 "50 Hit Trail on Cadle's Plea," 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Courier-Journal, June 7, 1920.
                  
                     21 Cadle, How I Came Back, 82; "Hits
                            Gambling at Big Meeting," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, January 17, 1921.
                  
                     22 Jesse M. Trinkle, "Southern Indiana Resident Gives Details
                            of the First Public Testimony of E. Howard Cadle," Cadle Call
                            (February 1957), 1.
               
                     Thus, by January 1921, Cadle had emerged as a familiar figure
                    in the life of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and his conversion story proved as integral to his celebrity as his business success.
            Over the course of the next few months, Cadle became an even more prominent figure in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . His increasing fame would be driven by two religious events: a citywide revival in the
                    spring and the dedication of the Cadle Tabernacle that fall. The spring revival stemmed mainly from
                    the efforts of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Church Federation, founded in 1912. In a January 1921 advertisement, cast in the form
                    of an opinion essay, the Federation argued that the city needed something to restore it to a
                    "more sober, decent, and orderly state .... [A]bove all and underlying all we need a
                    revival of religion, such a revival as will create a new conscience-a conscience that will deal in
                    thorough-going fashion with all these matters with which we have been trifling and
                        compromising."23 The essay marked the beginning of a publicity
                    campaign promoting just such a revival.
            The featured evangelist would be Rodney "Gypsy" Smith, who had first created a
                    sensation in the 
                        United States
                     in 1906 with a highly successful revival in 
                        Boston
                    . Smith's pulpit style differed markedly from that of the era's
                    pre-eminent evangelist, Billy Sunday Rather than stage antics, Smith was known, according to a later
                    historian of revivalism, for his "heart-warming tenderness and eloquence .... He was
                    pre-eminently ‘winsome’ and in turn could be sentimental, eloquent, or
                        ‘manly’"24
            
            Smith's gentility harmonized with the spirit of cooperation that marked the spring revival.
                    According to the Church Federation's advertising, 140 churches (nearly half the total
                    number in the city), representing 20 Protestant denominations, supported the event. An
                    interdenominational choir of 1,000 people was assembled, and another 1,000 people took part in a
                    training program "regarding the best methods of leading men and women into fellowship with
                    Jesus Christ." In the booklet published to commemorate the revival, one local pastor wrote
                    that Smith came to the city "with the best atmosphere ever created by Christian people in
                    this city for an Evangelistic Campaign."25
            
            
               
                  23 Advertisement, "Revival Over-Due," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, January 22, 1921.
               
                  24 William McLoughlin, Modern Revivalism: Charles Grandison
                            Finney to Billy Graham (
                            New York
                        , 1959), 392.
               
                  25 Advertisement, "The Gypsy Smith Campaign," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, March 12, 1921; Frederick Taylor, "Appreciation of Gipsy [sic]
                        Smith," in The Silent Evangel. Published in the interest of 
                                Indianapolis
                             Evangelistic Campaign (April 1921), 11.
            
            
            The evangelist's arrival by train on March 12, 1921, was attended by a small contingent of
                    ministers and city leaders, including Cadle, who had chaired the event's building
                    committee. A picture of this group ran on the front page of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star, with Cadle appearing half-a-head taller and at least a decade younger than
                    everyone else.26
            
            The revival opened the following day, Sunday, at 2:30 p.m. in a temporary tabernacle built at the
                    intersection of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Alabama
                     Streets, directly across from what was then City Hall. At both the afternoon and
                    evening services that day, the building was filled to its 7,500-person capacity. The revival
                    continued every night for four weeks, and its effect on the city was electric. Nearing the end of
                    the third week, 8,000 "decision cards" had been signed by attendees. About 1,000
                    claimed a conversion experience; the remainder were "re-consecrations." The
                    chairman of the YMCA committee declared in a local newspaper that the revival "has been a
                    great awakening. Our city can never again be the same. Men have had new visions, have responded to
                    higher aspirations, have rededicated themselves to a life of usefulness and service."
                    Nearly half a century later, a journalist who remembered the revival described it as a
                    "shot in the arm for the inspirational life of the community" and quoted a
                    businessman who claimed that it was "one of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ' great events" from "an inspirational and moral
                        standpoint."27
            
            As the revival drew to its conclusion, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News reported that "a meeting for the further organization of the Gypsy
                    Smith choir will be held at the tabernacle the afternoon of April 24 at 2:30 o'clock, it
                    was announced by E. Howard Cadle, president of the choir." The purpose of the meeting was
                    to plan for the choir's future, with the goal of having it meet once a month and offer
                    concerts "at intervals."28
            
            Within a month, Cadle's vision had expanded far beyond that modest goal. On May 20, the News announced his plans to build a permanent tabernacle at an estimated cost of
                    $75,000. "According to the present plans, the tabernacle will seat 10,000 people
                    and a choir loft to accommodate 1,000 will be built. Assembly rooms, which will seat 500, will be
                        
                  
                     26 "Arrival of Gypsy Smith in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, March 13, 1921.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Wayne
                             Guthrie, "City Could Use ‘Gypsy’
                            Revival," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 17, 1967; "Big Meeting to Continue One More
                            Week," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Christian Visitor, April 1, 1921; F. C. Fields, "The Gipsy [sic]
                            Smith Meeting Appreciation," The Silent Evangel, 23.
                  
                     28 "Permanent Organization," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 11, 1921.
               
                     built under the platform pulpit." Echoing the Church
                    Federation's earlier call for a citywide revival, Cadle explained that "this
                    tabernacle will be for the free use of all movements of cooperative Christianity in the community
                    upbuilding of the social, moral, and spiritual life of the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ." Once built, Cadle promised, the tabernacle would be placed under the
                    leadership of a "man of national reputation."29
            
            The anchor of the Smith revival, the 1,000-person Gypsy Smith choir embodied the revival's
                    interdenominational character, drawing members from a wide variety of churches across the city. But
                    Cadle's plan to organize it on a permanent basis in a permanent revival center raised
                    suspicions. Four days after the News announcement, a front-page newspaper article in the Star announced a Methodist Preachers' Association resolution approved by
                    sixty ministers opposing the idea, "the fear being expressed that it would interfere with
                    the work of other churches in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ." The resolution announced a "consensus of opinion" that
                    "[i]nasmuch as the Gypsy Smith choir was organized out of all the cooperating churches, and
                    having accomplished its purpose, in all fairness to the churches and the choir, it should be
                    immediately disbanded. We furthermore hold that there is no need for an afternoon
                    interdenominational Sunday school or Sunday afternoon service or evening interdenominational
                    service, for such needs are abundantly met by the Y.M.C.A. men's meetings, the Y.W.C.A.,
                    the Wheeler Rescue Mission and the various churches."30
            
            Methodist opposition was symbolically significant, because Methodists represented the heart of the
                    city's Protestant establishment in the early twentieth century. In 1906, nearly one-fifth
                    of all church members in 
                        Marion County
                     had belonged to a Methodist church-the highest percentage claimed by any Protestant
                    denomination. But the opposition to Cadle extended far beyond that denomination. An Episcopal
                    minister told a newspaper that "it isn't fair and I think that it shows a lack of
                    genuine Christianity." A Unitarian minister observed that "if a continuance of the
                    Gypsy Smith choir promoted church unity, I should favor it, but apparently it has the opposite
                    effect. It would seem to dissipate the religious forces of the city"31
            
            
               
                  29 "E. Howard Cadle to Build Tabernacle," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, May 20, 1921.
               
                  30 "Oppose Cadle Plan to Build Tabernacle," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, May 24, 1921.
               
                  31 Ibid. For statistics on the religious life of 
                            Indianapolis
                         in the century's early decades see David J. Bodenhamer and Robert G.
                        Barrows, eds., The Encyclopedia of 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1994), 1553-54.
            
            
            
               The Cadle Tabernacle, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1921 The building stood at the corner of 
                            New Jersey
                         and 
                            Ohio
                         streets from 1921 to 1968. Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, Bass Photo Company
                        Collection
            
            Cadle responded to his detractors with defiant incredulity. "I have never had any intention
                    of building a church around myself," he said. "I made a public statement to the
                    choir that I would never ask them to sing at the tabernacle when it would conflict with their church
                    services .... [M]y only hope in the enterprise is to make 
                        Indianapolis
                     an easier place to do right and a harder place to do wrong, and I say in the words of
                    the Master: ‘Forgive them, Father: they know not what they do.’"32
            
            Two days after this exchange appeared, the News announced that site preparations
                    for the building of the tabernacle would begin the following Monday on a lot east of the site where
                    Gypsy Smith's temporary structure had been built. The article included excerpts from
                    several letters of support Cadle had received. "Would you not consider the idea of going
                    ahead with your project and of dedicating this fine building," one asked, "with
                    such an infinite number of possibilities, not alone to evangelism and religion, but also to
                    patriotism, good citizenship, social uplift, civic welfare, better business and industrial
                        life?"33
            
            
               
                  32 "Oppose Cadle Plan to Build Tabernacle," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, May 24, 1921.
               
                  33 "Work on Tabernacle Will Be Begun Monday," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, May 26, 1921.
            
            
            Work proceeded on the building through the summer of 1921. In the days before the scheduled
                    dedication, the News reported that more than fifty workers were
                    "rushing" to have the building finished on time. "The interior ... is
                    painted old ivory and the steel supports for the roof are painted green. The pulpit is demountable,
                    thus affording a stage for pageants, plays or civic affairs." The News put the
                    project's cost, including land, at $305,000.34
            
            Completed on schedule, the building was filled to capacity during the afternoon and evening
                    dedicatory services held on October 9, and an estimated 10,000 people were turned away. Gypsy Smith
                    returned for the dedication, and memories from the spring revival played some part in the
                    attendance, but the event possessed an importance all its own. Mayor Charles Jewett, a Republican
                    close to Cadle in age and also from southern Indiana, offered to "accept, as mayor, this
                    beautiful Tabernacle from our sincere Christian citizen, E. Howard Cadle." (This was a
                    somewhat misleading sentiment, since Cadle had promised use of the building for public purposes but
                    had not actually given it to the city.) "There are always people who are skeptical, and no
                    one knows this better than a public servant," Jewett continued. "No man has ever
                    done a greater thing than has Mr. Cadle in erecting this Tabernacle. He has done a noble deed to
                    dedicate it in honor of his dear old mother, whose prayers saved him."35
            
            For his part, Cadle addressed the audience briefly-describing the day as the most significant in his
                    life-and then assisted his mother onto the platform. Though too weak to give a speech, "she
                    knows how to pray," Cadle told the audience, which broke out in applause. Addressing the
                    choir, he said, "You've been my pal, and you've stood by me when others
                    said bad words about me." The choir sang "Tell Mother I'll Be
                    There," and an assistant unveiled two life-size portraits to be hung on either side of the
                    choir loft-one of his mother, the other of himself.36
            
            FALL AND RISE OF A SALESMAN (1921-1931)
            The harmony and goodwill of the dedication service had lasted scarcely a month when the local press
                    reported a dispute over control of 
                  
                     34 "Cadle Tabernacle Ready for Dedication," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 8, 1921; "Work Is Being Rushed on Cadle
                            Tabernacle," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 7, 1921.
                  
                     35 "20,000 Hear Gypsy Smith Dedicate Cadle
                            Tabernacle," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 10, 1921.
                  
                     36 Ibid.
               
                     the Tabernacle's evangelistic program. The board of
                    directors presented Cadle with a contract designed to invest the board with this authority. Cadle
                    rejected it, saying the contract "would eliminate me from having any part in the program
                    that would be conducted at the tabernacle."37
            
            As a result of the controversy, evangelist Bob Jones, founder of the 
                        South Carolina
                     university that now bears his name, severed his association with the Tabernacle. At
                    Cadle's invitation, Jones had planned to hold regular meetings for several weeks after the
                    dedication. He had planned, as well, to devote several weeks each year to preaching at the
                    Tabernacle, but he refused to honor the agreement when Cadle asserted his authority and appeared to
                    position himself in competition with local ministers. "I have for a number of years been
                    working in harmony with the organized churches," Jones said in a statement released to the
                    press, "and my conscience will not permit me to be associated with any movement which is
                    liable to be turned into a campaign antagonistic to ministers and the organized
                        churches."38 Several board members submitted resignations, which
                    Cadle accepted. He then named an official in the Volunteers of America charity organization, Earl
                    Hites, as the Tabernacle's "permanent evangelist," announcing that he and
                    Hites would work out a schedule of special speakers and submit it to the board of directors for
                        approval.39
            
            The seeds of another controversy were sown just one month later. Facing low attendance and
                    insufficient donations, Cadle announced that his new Tabernacle, with its removable seating, could
                    also be "sold to the world as a convention place, where the largest assemblages may be
                    housed-conventions, educational exhibits, industrial shows, agricultural displays, religious
                    meetings, concerts and pageants, where either a large floor space or a large seating capacity is
                        desired."40
            
            
               
                  37 "Cadle and Tabernacle Association Disagree," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, November 21, 1921.
               
                  38 lbid. Relations between the Jones family and the Cadle organization
                        improved at some point after Cadle's death. Bob Jones, Jr., preached several
                        anniversary services for the Tabernacle in the 1950s, and advertisements for Bob Jones
                        University appeared in the Cadle Call in the 1950s and 1960s.
               
                  39 Ibid. See also "Split over Use of Tabernacle," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, November 22, 1921; "Resignations Follow Tabernacle
                        Tangle," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, November 22, 1921; "Cadle Backers will ‘Carry
                        On,’" 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, November 24, 1921.
               
                  40 "Cadle Tabernacle Provides Place for Conventions," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, December 31, 1921. In the first eleven months about 350,000 people
                        attended the 781 public religious services held, for an average of less than 500 people in a
                        building that could seat about 20 times that number.
            
            
            The availability of such a large meeting hall fit well with the plans of city politicians. As the
                    1920 city directory had proudly observed, "more cities of 30,000 population and over can be
                    reached in a night's ride from 
                        Indianapolis
                     than from any other city in the 
                        United States
                    ." The directory's editors also noted that the city had five public
                    auditoriums, but the largest, Tomlinson Hall, seated only 3,500.
            Recognizing this need, the city and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Chamber of Commerce jointly pressed ahead with plans for a coliseum. On July 7, 1922,
                    recently elected mayor Lew Shank, a politician who was both unimpressed with Cadle and fully his
                    equal as showman, announced that, if the proper ordinances were passed, "the city will
                    match a reasonable sum raised by sale of stock for erection of a five-story exposition
                    building." He also proposed buying the Cadle Tabernacle to meet its convention needs, an
                    idea which the Chamber rejected as inadequate. Cadle's reaction revealed the animosity that
                    marked his relationship with the new City Hall: he publicly promised choir members that they need
                    not worry about "ever having to move from this sacred spot in the Cadle tabernacle, to make
                    way for the cheap hobbies of the mayor of our city, because Mayor Lew Shank nor any one else has
                    enough money to buy my tabernacle."41
            
            Shank responded the following week by instructing the city's lawyers "to find some
                    way to put Cadle Tabernacle on the tax duplicate." The religious building had been exempt
                    up to that point, but because it was now also used for secular conventions, Shank believed Cadle
                    should pay taxes on the rent he received. "I know Cadle charged us $500 to hold
                    a [Senator Albert] Beveridge meeting in the place last spring," Shank said. "I
                    guess that wasn't a religious meeting, was it?"42
            
            The mixture of religion and politics soon brought the Tabernacle into another controversy. On an
                    April evening in 1923, eighteen Ku Klux Klan members dressed in full regalia marched down the 
                  During the same period, the Tabernacle took in about $30,000 through offerings.
                            "Cadle Tabernacle Will Be Rededicated Next Sunday; First Services
                            Recalled," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, September 27, 1931.
                  
                     41 "‘50-50,’ Shank Idea of Plan for
                            Coliseum," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, July 7, 1922; "Cadle Tells Choir He Will Keep
                            Tabernacle," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 8, 1922; Connie J. Zeigler, "Samuel Lewis (Lew)
                            Shank" in Bodenhamer and Barrows, eds., Encyclopedia of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1254-55.
                  
                     42 "Wishes Tabernacle Put on Tax Duplicate," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 12, 1922.
               
                     Tabernacle's center aisle and presented visiting
                    evangelist E. J. Bulgin with a letter of appreciation and a check for $600 to be split
                    between him and the Cadle Tabernacle Evangelistic Association. As the Klansmen filed out, the
                    audience stood and applauded. That night 200 people reportedly converted to Christianity.43
            
            
               Tolerance, the 
                        Chicago
                    -based anti-Klan newspaper, reported the incident beneath a bold headline proclaiming
                    "E. Howard Cadle on Klan Roll!" The newspaper also identified a prominent Klan
                    ally as a Cadle associate: Ed Jackson, Indiana's secretary of state (soon-to-be governor)
                    and chairman of the Cadle Tabernacle association's board of directors. The article went on
                    to describe Cadle as a man whose "business is the ‘rebuilding’ of
                    shoes, and whose diversion is the cobbling of souls in his great ‘Tabernacles’
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    ."44
            
            The Klan's secretive nature mystifies the extent of Cadle's involvement.45As the Bulgin incident clearly shows, some level of sympathy and cooperation
                    existed between the two organizations. But Cadle would be gone from the scene by the time the Klan
                    exerted its greatest influence in Indiana. Within weeks of the Klan's dramatic show of
                    support for him, Cadle had become involved in a dispute with the Tabernacle's board that
                    prompted his decision to leave the organization.
            The details of this estrangement remain as fuzzy as his Klan ties. Cadle's published
                    autobiographical version of the story cited treachery on the part of the board of directors: they
                    accused him of embezzling money from the Tabernacle offerings, then voted to oust him as the
                    organization's president. When this news reached the public, a storm of protest forced them
                    to reconsider and rescind the vote. But soon after this reconciliation, Cadle judged the Tabernacle
                    too heavy a financial burden and agreed to relinquish his controlling interest. Contemporary press
                    accounts, however, centered on the Klan and a complicated power struggle between Cadle and choir
                    director Joe Overmeyer. It "came to a showdown for the board to retain me or Mr.
                    Overmeyer," Cadle offered, "and when they refused to back me up . . . then I
                    decided to step down and 
                  
                     43 "Thousands Cheer as Klan Donates $600 at
                            Revival," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, April 2, 1923.
                  
                     44 "E. Howard Cadle on Klan Roll!," Tolerance, April 8, 1923.
                  
                     45 Kenneth Jackson describes the Tabernacle as "the favorite
                            haunt of local Knights" but sheds no further light on the connection. Jackson, Ku Klux Klan in the City, 144, 149. No mention of Cadle may be found in
                            Leonard J. Moore, Citizen Klansmen: The Ku Klux Klan in Indiana, 1921-1928 (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1991).
               
                     out."46 Both of these accounts are
                    frustratingly sketchy, but whatever the truth about his break with the Tabernacle, in June 1923
                    Cadle sold off his interest to a corporation that promised to carry on its religious program.
            In October, Cadle announced a plan to compete with his former ministry by building a new auditorium
                    and office building in the city's downtown district. He had the support, according to a
                    newspaper account, of the "Cadle faction of the Gypsy Smith Choir."
                    Cadle's plan for a competing tabernacle came to nothing. The new leadership of his former
                    ministry carried on with Sunday afternoon and evening services, and Cadle dropped out of sight. One
                    year later, he briefly reappeared in the newspapers with an announcement that he would seek the
                    Republican nomination for mayor of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Again nothing came of it. The fate of Cadle's shoe-repair shops remains
                        unknown.47 Sometime soon thereafter he moved his family to 
                        Florida
                    .
            Cadle spent about two years in the Tampa area, joining in a frenzy of real estate speculation that
                    journalist Frederick Lewis Allen described as "the most delirious fever of real-estate
                    speculation which had attacked the 
                        United States
                     in ninety years." When the bubble burst in 1926, Cadle lost (by his own
                    account) $150,000. At this point, "being discouraged, [and] having no money, we
                    came back to 
                        Indianapolis
                     early in 1927."48 In July 1927, Cadle announced that he
                    would run for governor in 1928 as an independent candidate. Like the mayoral bid four years earlier,
                    this plan foundered. In How I Came Back, Cadle described the change of plans as
                    submission to God's will. Again, his "conversion" took place on his
                    parents' farm. His mother, responding to the announcement of his candidacy for governor,
                    declared "I would rather have you be the poorest preacher in the state, than the best
                    Governor we ever had." The rebuke set off a night of soul-searching similar to his
                    conversion experience fifteen years earlier: "After battling until 3 o'clock in
                    the morning, I finally said, ‘Yes, Lord, I'll go where you 
                  
                     46 Cadle, How I Came Back, 126-30; "Board
                            Withholds Its Decision as Cadle Steps Down and Out," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, April 24, 1923; "Cadle Resigns His Membership upon
                            Tabernacle Board," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, April 24, 1923.
                  
                     47 "Cadle Proposes New Tabernacle," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 2, 1923; "E. Howard Cadle Seeks to Head G.O.P City
                            Ticket," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, October 18, 1924. A magazine writer in 1939 noted only that he was
                            "forced out of the shoe business by falling prices." Chase,
                            "America on Its Knees," Radio Guide, 3.
                  
                     48 Frederick Lewis Allen, Only Yesterday: An Informal
                                History of the Nineteen-Twenties (1931; reprint, 
                                New York
                            , 1964), 230; Cadle, How I Came Back, 134.
               
                     want me to go, I'll do what you want me to
                        do.’"49 Cadle would soon transform himself from a
                    full-time businessman who dabbled in evangelism to a full-time evangelist who dabbled in business.
            "EVANGELIST OF THE AIR": RADIO AND AIRPLANE EVANGELISM (1931-1942)
            Cadle apparently spent much time during the next several years on the road, preaching at various
                    revival meetings in the Midwest and South. In the last week of June 1931, he reemerged as an
                    important religious figure in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . By this time the Cadle Tabernacle sat unused, and its ownership had reverted to the
                    bank that originally financed it.50 Cadle persuaded the bank to allow him use of
                    it for several weeks, then called a series of special meetings to raise money. A newspaper announced
                    that Cadle would speak in the Tabernacle the following Sunday, with a subhead more prophetic than
                    its writer could have known: "Cadle to Tell of Comeback, Tabernacle Builder Will Relate
                    Story by Radio." Cadle announced his plan to buy back the building and restore it to its
                    original function; local radio station WFBM broadcasted the address. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Times described the campaign as "a drama that will appeal to every
                    citizen" and predicted that "the vast majority will undoubtedly cherish a hope
                    that he succeed." Distancing itself from Cadle's theology, the Times nonetheless
                    noted the need for "a real revival of spiritual outlook in these days of turmoil and
                    change. The people feel a growing need of spiritual fortifications."51
            
            Cadle's cause drew crowds. Perhaps the people who showed up at these meetings were former
                    members of the Gypsy Smith Choir and still felt some sense of loyalty to Cadle. Whoever they were,
                    they gave generously. "One precious soul," Cadle wrote, "said she had
                    saved up $25 to get a new set of false teeth, but that she would give that to the work of
                        
                  
                     49 Cadle, How I Came Back, 142-44. Oddly, Cadle
                            agreed to be the Prohibition Party's candidate for governor of Indiana not long
                            after he wrote these words. "Prohibitionists Nominate Cadle," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, June 3, 1932.
                  
                     50 The building's former owners had rented it out for boxing
                            matches on various occasions in the 1920s. In 1928, Cadle filed suit to have an event
                            stopped on the grounds that boxing violated a clause in the contract transferring ownership.
                            "Boxing at Cadle Tabernacle Sanctioned by Court Ruling," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 20, 1928.
                  
                     51 "Cadle to Tell of Comeback," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, June 25, 1931; "Back to Cadle," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, June 26, 1931.
               
                     the Lord and go on without her teeth."52 In October 1931, nearly ten years to the day after the first dedication service, Cadle
                    rededicated his Tabernacle.
            At about the same time, Cadle began the venture that would broaden his base of support far beyond 
                        Indianapolis
                    -radio broadcasting. The first broadcasts aired locally, but sometime in 1932 he managed
                    to secure a spot on 
                        Cincinnati
                    's WLW, which in 1928 had become one of the first stations to transmit its
                    signal at 50,000 watts. By the time Cadle joined WLW's roster, the federal government had
                    authorized experimental use of a 500,000-watt transmitter. The station tested the signal throughout
                    1933; by 1934, it was approved for full-time use. President 
                        Franklin
                     Roosevelt presided over the dedication ceremony, pushing a gold key to symbolically
                    begin the super-power transmission.53
            
            Depending on weather conditions and the time of day, WLW's signal could be heard in 
                        Canada
                    , Central and South America, and sometimes even across the oceans. In the first six
                    months after the power upgrade, WLW's mail volume quintupled over the same period a year
                    before. In 1935, the Federal Communications Commission estimated that the station's signal
                    could be received clearly and consistently by more than ninety million people, or two-thirds of the
                    nation's population. "The nation's station," as WLW billed
                    itself, reached out to an audience eagerly embracing radio. In 1935, two-thirds of all households in
                    the U.S. had a radio; by 1941, that figure had climbed to an estimated 85 percent.54
            
            WLW broadcasted Cadle's program, "The Nation's Family Prayer
                    Period," every morning for a decade. It featured a brief devotional, delivered 
                  
                     52 "Cadle, How I Came Back, 156. For an
                            account previewing the dedication service, see "Cadle Tabernacle Will Be
                            Rededicated Next Sunday; First Services Recalled," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, September 27, 1931.
                  
                     53 Lawrence Wilson Lichty, "The Nation's Station. A
                            History of Radio Station WLW," (Ph.D. diss., 
                                Ohio
                             State University, 1964), 239-45. The origins of the relationship between Cadle
                            and WLW are uncertain. In an interview, his daughter insisted that her father sought out
                            WLW's owner, Powel Crosley, Jr., and persuaded him to donate airtime to the
                            fledgling ministry. Crosley liked him so much that he agreed, and Cadle's time on
                            the station remained free until his death. The story is not implausible, given
                            Cadle's salesmanship skills and their shared Republican inclinations. Dick Perry,
                                Not Just a Sound: the Story of WLW (Englewood Cliffs, N J., 1971),
                            esp. chap. 1.
                  
                     54 Lichty, "The Nation's Station," 348,
                            345, 237-38. Regarding radio's role in the resurgence of conservative Christianity,
                            see Carpenter, Revive Us Again, 124-40; Tona Hangen, Redeeming the Dial: Radio, Religion, and Popular Culture in America (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 2002).
               
                     by Cadle or a guest, as well as singing by Ola Cadle and
                    various soloists and choirs. Monday through Saturday the program aired in a fifteen-minute time slot
                    beginning at 6 a.m. On Sundays it aired from 11 to 11:30 a.m. Ola typically opened the program with
                    the hymn "Did You Think to Pray?" and closed with "Sweet Hour of
                    Prayer," while Cadle's son, Buford, introduced the program and signed it off.
                    Sometimes he announced a revival that his father would be conducting in a certain town, or described
                    a recent meeting at the Tabernacle or elsewhere. But he always introduced Cadle with the same words:
                    "Now I introduce to you your friend and my father, E. Howard Cadle."
            In his devotional addresses, Cadle persistently reminded his audience of the
                    "bigness" of his enterprise. The choir was "the largest permanently
                    organized chorus choir." The Tabernacle was variously "the largest religious
                    auditorium in the world" and "the world's largest religious
                    interdenominational institution." Cadle had collected these and similar grand claims, along
                    with details about the Tabernacle's history and its staff, in a brochure, which he offered
                    to anyone who requested it. "We still have a lot of booklets left yet," he noted
                    one morning at the close of the program. "If you'd like to know the story about
                    this great religious institution, the largest religious auditorium in the world with a seating
                    capacity of 10,000, built at the cost of half a million dollars through a redeemed drunkard whose
                    mother's prayers saved him, we'll send you one free of charge."55
            
            It is impossible to know exactly how many people listened to the show or responded to
                    Cadle's booklet offers and pleas for money. Whatever records were kept are now gone, and
                    the extant reports are of uncertain reliability. Life noted in 1939 that the WLW audience
                    "floods his office with 4,000 letters weekly." In a memoir published in 1957, a
                    Cadle friend and associate estimated that in 1934 the Tabernacle had received 24,000 letters a
                    month, a volume that required the attention of twenty staff members. A writer for Radio Guide in
                    1939 described the Tabernacle as "the spiritual center" of thirty million
                        Christians.56
            
            
               
                  55In April 1996, I came into possession of several hundred wax cylinders
                        used by the Cadle ministry to broadcast his radio program in the late 1930s and early 1940s. I
                        donated them to the Indiana Historical Society in 2001.
               
                  56 "Cadle of 
                            Indianapolis
                         Streamlines Evangelism," Life, 73; William T. Arnold,
                            Your Friend and Mine . . . E. Howard Cadle: The Story of Cadle Tabernacle (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1957), 14; Chase, "America on Its Knees," 2.
            
            
            
               The Cadle Family, c. 1932 The entire Cadle family-Howard and Ola, and children Buford, Helen, and 
                            Virginia
                         Ann-participated in the Cadle ministry. How I Came Back
                    (1932)
            
            Whatever the exact numbers, it is certain that Cadle's appeals reached a wide audience. The
                    program's routine met critical needs in Depression-era America. For millions of people,
                    concentrated mostly in the Midwest and upper South, "The Nation's Family Prayer
                    Period" formed as much a part of their daily routine as breakfast. One woman described the
                    program's place in her childhood in Alleghany County, 
                        Virginia
                    . Her family owned the only radio in town, but since batteries for it were expensive,
                    her father restricted their listening. The only sure bet, she said, was Cadle's program. At
                    night, when the family gathered together for its daily devotional time, her father would often quote
                        
                    
                  Cadle and the Cadle Tabernacle Choir, c. 1932 The 1,000-member choir loyally contributed to
                            the success of the Cadle radio ministry. How J Came Back (1932)
                something Cadle had said back to them. More than a source of spiritual uplift for her
                    family, the Tabernacle also served as a connection to a world beyond Alleghany County-a glimpse of a
                    better tomorrow. "It's hard to identify with what I'm saying [if you
                    didn't live through the Depression]," she recalled, more than half a century
                    later. The daily Tabernacle broadcast "was a breath of fresh air. It was a touch of the
                    outside. It was inspirational. It brought spirit and a goal to life. We got up by it every morning.
                    It's still a special memory in the recesses of my mind."57
            
            Listeners also came to think of Cadle as a close personal friend. An intimate, adoring tone permeates
                    the notes sent to the Tabernacle. They arrived by the thousands, day after day, from all over the
                    map. Cadle printed a handful of them in the Tabernacle's monthly publication, the Cadle Call, which first appeared in 1941. "When I heard you say this
                    morning that Buford was sick," one listener wrote, "I just felt it was one of our
                    own family who was sick. For that is how near we feel to all of the 
                  
                     57 Frances Craddock, telephone interview with author, April
                        1996.
               
                    
                    
                  Cadle's "One Night Revival" Staff, 1930s Cadle's son
                            Buford sits in the cockpit while assistant William T. Arnold (wearing suspenders), and
                            Arnold's wife, 
                                Georgia
                             (at William's right), stand with unidentified staff members. Courtesy
                            of the author
                Cadle Tabernacle Staff. So we are praying that God touches his body and makes him well
                    real soon." Cadle responded by assuring readers that "your prayers-and the prayers
                    of many others-had their effect. Buford Cadle was up and around shortly afterward and his voice
                    greets you daily from the radio now." In the same issue, a "Mrs. L. P."
                    wrote that "I am enclosing a little gift to help you carry on your great work of preaching
                    the Gospel. I am a widow, 81 years old, am blind and cannot read or write a line. I have a little
                    girl friend to write for me. I can hardly wait until Sunday to hear you preach the Gospel and hear
                    the songs. It is a great pleasure to me." Cadle responded with a plug for the daily
                    program: "Mrs L. P. doesn't have to wait until Sunday to pray with us. The
                    Nation's Family Prayer Period is heard from WLW (and other stations) every
                        morning."58
            
            As these exchanges suggest, Cadle cultivated a sense of personal connection with his audience while
                    aggressively trying to broaden it. In 
                  
                     58 "Letters from Our Readers and Listeners," Cadle Call, July 1941, 5.
               
                    
                    
                  William Arnold (second from left) with members of a mountain church in Athol, 
                                Kentucky
                             Finding the chapel in irreparable condition, a Cadle representative oversaw the
                            construction of this new building using the donated labor of church members. Courtesy of the
                            author
                the later 1930s, his methods for doing so generated much of the press attention he
                    received. He sought out both his faithful listeners and potential listeners wherever they
                    lived-whether in cities or towns or the remote valleys of West 
                        Virginia
                    . Cadle's "one-night revivals" drew much attention. He owned
                    a small airplane, and Buford served as his pilot. After the morning show, they and several members
                    of the staff would fly to various locations in the Midwest and the South, hold a service that
                    evening, then fly back to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in time for Cadle to appear on his radio program the next morning. Upcoming dates and
                    sites for the meetings were advertised on the program and, judging by press accounts, Cadle often
                    spoke to full houses. A report of one of the early meetings, held in 1934, noted that an audience of
                    3,000 people packed 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               's, Memorial Hall to hear "Rev. Cadle,
                    who has become nationally known by his radio sermons."59
                    Cadle's volunteer assistant, William T. Arnold, once wrote that he had booked more than 500
                    of these meetings, and in 1941 Cadle estimated that he and his staff 
                  
                     59 "Crowd Fills Memorial Tabernacle Hall to Hear Tabernacle
                            Head," 
                                Dayton
                            
                            Journal, June 22, 1934.
               
                     had driven 250,000 miles and flown half a million more in
                    arranging and conducting them.60
            
            Cadle called another effort to broaden his audience "mountain church work."
                    Beginning in 1937, Cadle put Arnold to work installing radio receivers in isolated and sometimes
                    abandoned churches throughout the upper South, generally in Appalachian communities too small or too
                    poor to support a full-time preacher. With a Crosley radio (also donated) installed in the building,
                    people could meet together on Sunday mornings and feel part of a regular worship service.61
            
            Arnold's son often traveled with his father. He later recalled that they would leave 
                        Dayton
                     early on Saturday mornings and be away until late Sunday evening. "Half of the
                    churches, something would keep you from getting all the way to them," he said.
                    "The road would run out. Sometimes, the church people would be there with mules. These were
                    dirt roads, so if it rained there was no getting through with a car." Arnold kept a log of
                    his journeys, and the fragmented entries register the poverty and challenges he encountered.
                    "Abandoned mining camp leased by the county, Logan, for folks on relief," read an
                    entry from West 
                        Virginia
                    , dated February 1938. "Have a Sunday School regular, lead by Miss 
                        Virginia
                     Nourse. Children repeated . . . Bible verses. Very needy place. All persons on direct
                    relief of WPA. Use a dwelling for a church. Plank seats. 75-100 present."62 In 1941, Cadle estimated that more than 600 such mountain congregations listened to his
                    broadcast each Sunday.
            Cadle's success rode upon the strong loyalty of his audience. A pianist who played at the
                    Tabernacle in the early 1930s said of the Gypsy Smith choir: "They adored him, really.
                    There was something that just pulled. There was just a tightness of fellowship,
                    friendship." Though widely scattered, his radio audience felt the same pull of love and
                    loyalty. Lonely widows like "Mrs. L. P." tuned in every morning knowing that
                    others did the same. And on Sundays, people across the Appalachian South gathered in small churches,
                    seated before a radio attached to a pulpit, and heard the Cadle Tabernacle choir singing familiar
                    gospel hymns. "He is 
                  
                     60 Arnold, Your Friend and Mine, 18; E. Howard
                            Cadle, The Flying Preacher: One Night Revivals (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1941), 8.
                  
                     61 Arnold owned a dry-cleaning shop in 
                                Dayton
                             and met Cadle at the one-night revival held in 1934.
                  
                     62 William Arnold, interview with author, August 1996. The log had
                            been handed down to Arnold's son, who donated it to me during our 1996
                        interview.
               
                     one of the great evangelists of our age," the author
                    of the Radio Guide piece on Cadle concluded. "He could live to be as old
                    as Methuselah and never touch the surface of the millions he reaches now through a microphone on his
                    pulpit, which makes the world his parish."63
            
            Cadle's radio success finally made plausible his claim of not competing with local
                    churches-but not because the Tabernacle sat empty. Indeed, several thousand people attended the
                    Sunday morning broadcast each week, and the Tabernacle also held a Sunday evening service.
                    Attendance at both of these meetings was greater than that at the vast majority of churches in the
                    city and, Cadle's protests notwithstanding, the Tabernacle gave every appearance of being a
                    church: it took an offering, baptized people, held communion services regularly, and sponsored clubs
                    and organizations that catered to one's age or interests.64 But in
                    truth, the importance of this local audience diminished dramatically when Cadle began his radio
                    broadcasts. His competition now consisted primarily of other radio personalities, secular and
                    sacred.
            At the same time, though, the importance of the Tabernacle itself increased. As home to "The
                    Nation's Family Prayer Period," it soon became a sort of shrine, a place of
                    pilgrimage. Curt Davis, who served as the Tabernacle's organist from 1931 until
                    Cadle's death, recalled that the 6 a.m. weekday broadcasts typically included 200 or 300
                    people in the audience. Always, he said, the parking lot was filled with out-of-state cars. People
                    came to see a radio star, to see the "largest building of its kind in the world,"
                    and on Sundays to see the famous choir. "See, this is before television," Davis
                    said, "You can tell the listening audience that they're hearing 1,200 people sing,
                    or that they're hearing 1,000 people sing. They would say, T don't believe it.
                    I'm going to go see.' So, when he had visitors stand . . . sometimes that took ten
                    or fifteen minutes [after the broadcast]. He would call off the states: 'Who's
                    here from 
                        Tennessee
                    ?' I would play ‘The 
                        Tennessee
                     Waltz’ while they were standing. For 
                        Wisconsin
                    , I would play ‘On 
                        Wisconsin
                    .’"65
            
            Along with Cadle's increasing celebrity came a striking increase in his wealth. As a young
                    man, Cadle had put his philosophy of living this 
                  
                     63 Thelma Moore, interview with author, July 1996; Chase,
                            "America on Its Knees," 39.
                  
                     64 The primary basis for Cadle's claim that the
                            Tabernacle's work supplemented local churches was the fact that it kept no formal
                            membership list.
                  
                     65 Curt Davis, interview with author, May 1996.
               
                     way: "Personally, I live well. I want the best things
                    to eat. I drive what I think is the best looking automobile and my wife one as good. We wear the
                    best clothes, eat the best food, see the best things and shall continue to do that.... But about the
                    good living . . . wealth is only good to make others happy-others who have been less fortunate than
                    the man who has the wealth." Life's profile of Cadle in 1939
                    juxtaposed his broken-down home after his "ruin" in the 
                        Florida
                     real estate collapse with his current "spruce" residence, noting the
                    Cadillac parked in front of it. "He liked nice things," Cadle's youngest
                    daughter once observed. "He drove nice cars, big cars, and he did have
                        servants."66
            
            Cadle's activity in Belleville, a community about fifteen miles west of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , provides perhaps the best evidence of his economic success. In the mid-1930s, he
                    bought a large home, several small homes, and more than one thousand acres of land there. He used
                    the land to graze animals and grow crops and lodged his farmhands and their families in the smaller
                    homes as part of their pay. In a note written to William Arnold in October 1937, after a recent
                    illness had briefly sidelined him, Cadle said that "I have made a mighty important decision
                    since being back. I am through with all outside business, and am going to take care of the farm ....
                    No more business; no more saw mills; no more veneer mills; no more plants; no more timber; no more
                    nothing! . . . You know the old devil was trying to get me off on the wrong track with so much
                    business that it would take my mind off winning souls for Christ, but I caught the old cuss just in
                        time."67
            
            The promise proved impossible to keep. Four months later, a local newspaper reported that "a
                    new saw mill which, when completed, will provide employment for 25 to 30 men, is being built by E.
                    Howard Cadle at Belleville, five miles west of 
                        Plainfield
                     on the National Road." To supply the mill with wood, Cadle also bought two
                    eighty-acre tracts of virgin timber in another town. "The mill is equipped with all modern
                    machinery necessary to produce finished products," the paper reported. 
                  
                     66 "Howard Cadle, Ex-Gambler, Saloon Bum and Wreck, Tells How
                            He Came Back," 
                                Salem
                             [Ind.] Democrat, October 26, 1921; 
                                Virginia
                             Good, interview with author, May 1996. For most of the 1930s, the Cadles
                            resided on 
                                Fall Creek
                             Boulevard. In 1941, the family moved to 4411 N. Meridian St. The
                            ministry's operating expenses ran to approximately $100,000 in 1939, but
                            the income derived almost exclusively from pleas for donations on his radio program; there
                            were no sponsors. "Cash and Cadle," Time, 39.
                  
                     67 Reprinted in Arnold, Your Friend and Mine,
                        69.
               
                     "Cabinets for radios, and baskets and boxes for
                    handling fruits and vegetables will be produced by this industry."68
            
            In addition to these ventures, Cadle constructed in Belleville a log tabernacle with a seating
                    capacity of 5,000. The tabernacle stood as the centerpiece of a summer campground that included open
                    land for parking trailers and pitching tents, a restaurant, cabins, and small man-made lakes for
                    fishing and swimming. Each summer, he invited evangelists from around the nation to be guest
                    speakers in the log tabernacle, and he invited his radio and print audience to spend their vacation
                    at the Cadle campgrounds. In July 1936, a local newspaper reported that the tabernacle's
                    dedication service "was completely filled, and the remaining heard the sermon through an
                    amplifying system on the meeting grounds."69
            
            By 1942 Cadle's varied pursuits-local and far-flung, business and religious-functioned in
                    perfect symbiosis. On Sundays, hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, heard the morning service
                    broadcast live from the Cadle Tabernacle. On weekdays and Saturdays, many listeners started their
                    day with his 15-minute devotional. Some drove to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to participate in a broadcast from the Tabernacle, or planned a vacation at the Cadle
                    summer campground. For many of those unable to see him in person, Cadle brought his ministry to
                    their town through one-night revivals. This vast audience showed their thanks by sending Cadle
                    money, which he used to build and expand both his business and religious endeavors.
            Given more time, this symbiotic setup might have propelled Cadle to truly national significance.
                    World War II, perhaps even more so than the Depression, created a powerful demand for the sort of
                    soothing tonic that Cadle offered. But little more than a year after the U.S. entered the war, his
                    ministry abruptly ended. One morning in October 1942, after delivering what would be his final
                    program from the Tabernacle, Cadle checked into Methodist Hospital in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He conducted the program 
                  
                     68 "Cadle Brings New Industry to Belleville," 
                                Plainfield
                             [Ind.] Messenger, February 17, 1938.
                  
                     69 "Many Attend Cadle Dedication Meeting," Hendricks County [Ind.] Republican, July 23, 1936.
                            Cadle's activities in Belleville stirred a tax-evasion controversy in 1937.
                            "Tax-Exempt Property," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, March 2, 1937. In 1947, the Internal Revenue Bureau sought nearly
                            $300,000 in back taxes and fines for the Tabernacle's failure to file
                            income tax returns from 1931 to 1943. The parties reached a compromise, with the Tabernacle
                            agreeing to pay about $100,000 in taxes and penalties. "Tax Evasion
                            Cases Total $863,588 Here," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, May 19, 1947; "Cadle Tabernacle Ordered to Pay
                            $104,095 Back Taxes," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, June 11, 1947.
               
                     from bed for several weeks, but his condition steadily
                    worsened, and he died on December 20, 1942, at the age of 58, probably from complications related to
                    the kidney disease that had plagued him since his youth.70
            
            E. HOWARD CADLE's APPEAL: POPULISM, PRAGMATISM, AND SUPERNATURALISM
            In the decades since Cadle's death, Americans have seen many others of his ilk ascend to
                    fame: the charismatic radio or television preacher with a gift for salesmanship, a large and loyal
                    base of supporters, a vague or nonexistent denominational affiliation, and an ambiguous identity
                    that is equal parts businessperson and believer. The same character type has a long history in the
                    annals of American religion-one can trace it back at least to George Whitefield and his massive
                    outdoor revival meetings, over the protests of "regular" clergy, in the
                    mid-eighteenth-century American colonies.71 Cadle's significance to
                    historians stems from the fact that he appeared on the scene-and achieved widespread popular
                    success-precisely at a moment when modern science and culture threatened the moorings of traditional
                    religion and morality.
            Cadle presented two personas to his audience-a Savvy Businessman and a Country Preacher-and created a
                    productive tension out of the contradictions between them by relying on an intensely literal
                    supernaturalism. His ability to harmonize divergent images-to embrace traditional and modern, urban
                    and rural-offers a model of the strategies that conservative Christians used to resist and adapt to
                    broad religious and cultural changes in the decades after the 1920s.
            Cadle's theology and his interpretive approach emphasized a literal, "common
                    sense" understanding of scripture: all believers who approached the Bible in good faith,
                    taking its words literally, would 
                  
                     70 Ola Cadle served as president of the Tabernacle's board of
                            trustees until her death in July 1955. The Tabernacle began a television ministry in the
                            early 1950s, but it never achieved the sort of success that the radio program enjoyed under
                            Howard Cadle. The last issue of the Cadle Call appeared in October 1967.
                            After the Tabernacle was sold off and torn down the following year, only the radio ministry
                            survived. It eventually became a weekly program conducted by an out-of-state preacher. The
                            show finally ceased broadcasting in the early 1990s after the deaths of the Cadle children,
                            Buford and Helen, who managed it.
                  
                     71 Harry Stout, The Divine Dramatist: George Whitfield
                                and the Rise of Modern Evangelicalism (Grand Rapids, Mich., 1991).
               
                     come to essentially the same conclusions about its meaning.72 In Cadle's world, Jonah spent three days in the belly of a whale,
                    and Noah and his family were the only survivors of a universal flood. As for humanity's
                    origins, Cadle stated, "I do not believe man was made through the process of evolution. I
                    believe God made man from a pile of dirt, because the Bible says so, and I have sense enough to
                    believe the Bible." God was also intimately involved in people's individual and
                    collective fate: "God will not stand for the rampant, sinfulness of our nation today, but
                    He will bring down fire from heaven to wipe out creation, unless men and women are willing to
                    forsake the devil and turn to Him."73
            
            In the context of Cadle's rise to evangelistic success in the 1930s, this theological
                    supernaturalism bore a crucial social message. "God has brought on this economic depression
                    to make a lot of people realize there is more to life than prosperity," Cadle preached. In
                    another sermon he denied that "we will ever solve any problems until we do it in the name
                    of Jesus Christ. Now, I mean all problems-our economic, our social, our educational, and our
                    religious. They all have to be solved at the foot of the cross .... The Bible
                    tells me so, and I see where people cannot solve problems other places, other ways, or through
                    different mediums." Human effort alone might be useless, but the believer who surrendered
                    to God's will discovered a newfound power that dramatically enhanced personal prospects in
                    every endeavor. In a sermon titled "The Reason I Am a Christian," Cadle explained
                    that "when one is a Christian and is born into the Kingdom of God, He will hear our prayers
                    for health, money, job, sweetheart, home, and every phase of our life." Another sermon
                    offered that "[d]ivorces, home troubles, family differ-ences and quarrels, and economic
                    distress can be avoided if men and women would accept the peace and power of Jesus Christ in their
                    daily lives. Jesus Christ is the truest friend of man in all of his troubles and is the best
                    business partner today."74
            
            This intertwining of pragmatism and supernaturaJism characterized the part of Cadle's public
                    image that can be called the Savvy 
                  
                     72 On the centrality of the commonsense philosophical tradition in
                            American Christianity, and particularly its influence on biblical interpretation in the
                            nineteenth century, see Mark Noll, America's God: From Jonathan
                                Edwards to Abraham Lincoln (
                                New York
                            , 2002); George Marsden, Fundamentalism and American Culture,
                            rev. ed. (
                                New York
                            , 2005), 54-62.
                  
                     73 Cadle, The Flying Preacher, 17; Cadle, How I Came Back, 181.
                  
                     74 Cadle, How I Came Back, 177, 182; Cadle, Flying Preacher, 32, 47.
               
                     Businessman. Expressed rhetorically in his conversion story and
                    tangibly in his lifestyle, the message delivered by Cadle's luxury cars and expensive
                    homes, his private airplane and the building bearing his name in downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                     was that Christianity works. Jesus Christ was indeed the best business partner around,
                    just as advertising executive Bruce Barton claimed in his 1925 bestselling book, The
                        Man Nobody Knows.
               75
            
            In Depression-era America, the Savvy Businessman persona presented serious pitfalls, especially given
                    Cadle's expensive tastes and his unembarrassed displays of wealth. Cadle mitigated the
                    contradiction with another image characterized by his nickname for himself: "the Country
                    Preacher." The Country Preacher set rural, "traditional" values over the
                    vices of the cities. "Country" also signified "community." In
                    his conversion story, Cadle descended into sin-and his social networks fell apart-when he first
                    ventured into big cities. Back in his parents' home, on a farm in southern Indiana, he
                    found cosmic redemption and restoration to an earthly community. His mother, who would accept him no
                    matter how far he fell, symbolized all the traditional values that had defined Cadle's
                    nineteenth-century boyhood, and her embrace served as a gesture of unconditional acceptance and
                    love-precisely those things that the city and its vices had stripped away. Thus the
                    "Country" in Cadle's self-description resonated on both literal and
                    metaphorical levels: where he came from, and the place of eternal communion.
            The Country Preacher also practiced an aggressive populism.76 A eulogy appearing
                    in a local paper after Cadle's death noted that he was "a highly unusual
                    man" who "had the gift of knowing his people."77 The
                    reference to Cadle's "people" hints at something difficult to quantify
                    but nonetheless real: the class tensions underlying his success. It is 
                  
                     75 T. J. Jackson Lears, "From Salvation to
                            Self-Realization," in The Culture of Consumption: Critical Essays in
                                American History, 1880-1980, ed. Lears and Richard Wightman Fox (
                                New York
                            , 1983), 1-38; Leo Ribuffo, Right Center Left: Essays in American
                                History (
                                New Brunswick
                            , N.J., 1992).
                  
                     76 My interpretation of Cadle's populism and his cultivation
                            of an "outsider" persona, here and throughout, is deeply indebted to two
                            works: Nathan Hatch, The Democratization of American Christianity (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1989) and R. Laurence Moore, Religious Outsiders and the
                                Making of Americans (
                                New York
                            , 1986), esp. ch. 5. Though dated, Richard Hofstadter's Anti- intellectualism in American Life (
                                New York
                            , 1962), contains a still-insightful account of the populist impulse in American
                            evangelicalism.
                  
                     77 "E. Howard Cadle," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, December 22, 1942.
               
                     simplistic to say that Cadle appealed to only the poor and
                    downtrodden, but it is beyond doubt that his followers felt deeply vulnerable. The legal name he
                    gave to his evangelistic work-the People's Church, Inc.-nderscored the populist thrust of
                    his ministry.78 Like the People's Party of the 1890s, Cadle identified
                    a group of elites as the source of the nation's problems, but instead of challenging the
                    moneyed elite of the Gilded Age, the Country Preacher charged elitists of the mind-intellectuals and
                    technocrats-with threatening to bring the nation to ruin.79 "You can
                    cram your little, old head full of all the knowledge of the books of the world," Cadle
                    declared, "You can get all the sheepskins from every university in the country .... You
                    will never do it there. You will never do it in the name of science .... Science, psychology,
                    physiology-all the ologies in the world will not solve the problems. I solved all my problems on my
                    knees, coming to Christ."80 Perhaps no statement captures so succinctly
                    the symbiosis of populism, supernaturalism, and pragmatism in Cadle's message.81
            
            The Savvy Businessman's pragmatism, the Country Preacher's populism, and the
                    intense supernaturalism underpinning both personas allowed Cadle simultaneously to embrace and defy
                    the modern worldreaping the benefits of its technological and economic institutions while 
                  
                     78 Pentecostalism has inspired some fine analyses of conservative
                            Christians' socioeconomic standing. The older interpretation is represented by
                            Robert Mapes Anderson, Vision of the Disinherited: The Making of American
                                Pentecostalism (
                                New York
                            , 1979). Grant Wacker's more recent book suggests that early
                            Pentecostals were much more middle-class than has been recognized. Heaven
                                Below: Early Pentecostals and American Culture (
                                Cambridge
                            , 2001). In 1983, sociologist James Davison Hunter found that
                            "Evangelicalism remains based within the middle and lower socioeconomic echelons of
                            American life-lower overall than the other major bodies yet clearly not within the lowest
                            reaches of social and economic life." Hunter, American Evangelicals:
                                Conservative Religion and the Quandary of Modernity (
                                New Brunswick
                            , N.J., 1983), 53-55. On conservative Christians and class status, see also
                            Christian Smith, American Evangelicalism: Embattled and Thriving (
                                Chicago
                            , 1998).
                  
                     79 On the People's Party, see Lawrence Goodwyn, The Populist Moment (
                                New York
                            , 1978) and Michael Kazin, A Godly Hero: The Life of William
                                Jennings Bryan (
                                New York
                            , 2006). On the varieties of populism in American history, see Kazin, The Populist Persuasion: An American History, rev. ed. (
                                Ithaca
                            , NY, 1998).
                  
                     80 Cadle, The Flying Preacher, 33-34.
                  
                     81 Cadle's style influenced at least one young listener who
                            would go on to achieve even greater fame and fortune than his own. Dave Thomas, the famous
                            folksy founder and spokesperson of the Wendy's fast-food chain, remembered
                            listening to Christian radio programs with his grand-mother Minnie: "On Sundays
                            before church we would listen to shows like the Cato Tabernacle [sic] out
                            of 
                                Indianapolis
                            ." Dave Thomas, "What Makes for Success," Imprimis 25
                            (Juty 1996), 3.
               
                     decrying the social upheaval inflicted by them. If the Savvy
                    Businessman lived in the city and dressed like a dandy, the Country Preacher reassured listeners
                    that he remained a farm boy at heart. The Savvy Businessman understood the push and shove of the
                    modern world; he played by its rules and was rewarded with a Cadillac and an airplane. The farm boy
                    could conquer the city so long as he cultivated self-discipline, resisted the lure of city vices,
                    relied on God's help, and stayed true to the simple truths of the Bible. Cadle's
                    life offered proof that the transi-tion from a rural to an urban society need not mean the end of
                    morality and traditional values.82
            
            Radio's rapid rise allowed Cadle to promote his "country" values from an
                    urban headquarters. That irony takes us to the heart of the religious right's
                    persistence-and influence-in modern American culture. Cadle's radio program provided his
                    listeners with a sense of connection to a wider, albeit largely invisible, world of like-minded
                        people.83 "I do not know how I could carry on some days if it was
                    not for the morning prayer period to give me strength to keep on trying and trust[ing] in
                    God," read one letter from a listener, reprinted in Cadle's monthly magazine.
                    Another wrote that "our entire family (wife and five kiddies and self) are using your
                    family prayer period as a foundation for our family altar. You'll never know this side of
                    the pearly gates just what your life has meant to me and millions of others."84 As the leader of a vast community knitted together by radio during a time of economic
                    desperation and social turbulence, Cadle reassured his audience that God controlled their fate and
                    the fate of the nation. The politicians and their advisers, the intellectuals and the
                    technocrats-all were impotent in the face of the nation's problems. The only cure was
                    God's grace, and the only path to that was through prayer and repentance. In true populist
                    fashion, Cadle's message of hope gave power to the people.
            
               
                  82 On fundamentalists' complex relationship to modernity, see
                        Carpenter, Revive Us Again, 234-36. George Marsden develops a similar theme in
                        "Preachers of Paradox: The Religious New Right in Historical Perspective," in Religion and America: Spiritual Life in a Secular Age, ed. Mary Douglas and
                        Steven 
                            Tipton
                         (
                            Boston
                        , 1983), 150-68. See also Douglas Carl Abrams, Selling the Old-Time
                            Religion: American Fundamentalism and Mass Culture, 1920-1940 (
                            Athens
                        , Ga., 2001).
               
                  83 For an important essay describing radio's cultural unifying
                        and homogenizing influence in this era, see 
                            Warren
                         Susman, Culture as History: The Transformation of American Society in
                            the Twentieth Century (
                            New York
                        , 1985), 150-83.
               
                  84
                        Cadle Call, August 1941, 6.
            
            
            Across the nation, scores of Cadle's contemporary American revivalists engaged in similar
                    sorts of regionalized community building.Aimee Semple McPherson's evangelistic career in 
                        California
                     spanned roughly the same years as Cadle's. Her supernatural faith healings
                    could hardly have launched a more direct affront to the rising naturalism of modernity. A skilled
                    self-promoter and entertainer, McPherson used her flamboyant personality and energetic sermons to
                    keep radio audiences spellbound. In 1924, she began broadcasting from radio station KFSG, located in
                    her institutional headquarters, the Angelus Temple. The sta-tion's reach was vast: live
                    broadcasts from the Temple made McPherson's voice "one of the most familiar in the 
                        United States
                    ." When an earth-quake struck Santa Barbara in 1925 her listeners demonstrated
                    vividly the community-building aspect of her work by responding to her pleas for assistance and
                    delivering two convoys of aid before the Red Cross could deploy its own relief efforts. The thriving
                    denomination she built, the Foursquare Church, survives to this day85
            
            Like McPherson, E. Howard Cadle is important, in the end, because his blend of pragmatism, populism,
                    and supernaturalism presaged the emerging character of conservative Christianity in America. In the
                    1930s, when fundamentalists were tempted by their theology and the verdict of Scopes to isolate
                    themselves and reject American culture as corrupt beyond hope, Cadle took the opposite tack. He
                    often quarreled with more "mainstream" religious and community leaders, but he
                    never withdrew into silence. Indeed, he relished being at the center of conflict and controversy,
                    and he always sustained an active engagement with the culture in which he operated. In building his
                    institution, he drew on the sense of betrayal and powerlessness felt by millions of Americans who
                    had watched their communities fragment and their "old-fashioned" faith come under
                    withering attack by scientific and humanistic scholarship. But he played on more than their despair.
                    Like scores of other charismatic Christian leaders, he offered a positive alternative: a
                    "community" of like-minded believers-a support network- 
                  
                     85 Edith Blumhofer, Aimee Semple McPherson:
                                Everybody's Sister (Grand Rapids, Mich., 1993), 267. See also Paul Starr,
                                The Social Transformation of American Medicine (
                                New York
                            , 1982); Tom Sitton and William Deverell, eds., Metropolis in the Making: 
                                Los Angeles
                             in the 1920s (Berkeley, Calif., 2001).
               
                    
                    
                  Tribute to B. R. Lakin on display in Jerry Falwell's Liberty University, 1990s
                  In 1984, Falwell honored Lakin as "Fundamentalist of the Year." Portraits
                            of the Cadle Tabernacle are visible in the lower left and lower right corners of the
                            display. Photograph by Jan Shipps
                set militantly against the presumed godlessness of mainstream American culture.86
            
            By the close of the twentieth century, new transitions in American culture-the expansion of
                    government bureaucracies, the growth of 
                  
                     86 Other religious figures built similar regional
                            "empires." William Vance Trollinger, God,'s Empire: William Bell Riley and Midwestern Fundamentalism (
                                Madison
                            , Wis., 1990); Barry
               
                     higher education after World War II, and the corporate
                    mobilization against communism during the Cold War-would change the threats to conservative
                    Christianity, but not the strategies of resistance. Countless preachers and politicians of a
                    conservative bent followed the familiar paradigm, decrying the nation's fall from grace
                    while exhorting the nation's "pro-moral" majority to fight back against
                    the godless elites who had corrupted American society. Time declared 1976 the "year of the
                    evangelicals," and in 1980 Jerry Falwell's Moral Majority helped Ronald Reagan win
                    the presidency, laying the groundwork for an energized religious right that remains politically
                    influential to this day87
            
            As it happens, Howard Cadle played an important, if vicarious, role in that resurgence. After his
                    death, his young assistant and "disciple" B. R. Lakin stayed on as
                    "pastor" of the Tabernacle and hosted the radio show until 1952. Lakin, a West
                    Virginian who possessed a folksy appeal similar to that of his mentor, went on to his own career as
                    a renowned revivalist in fundamentalist circles. In the 1960s, he mentored a young Jerry Falwell.
                    Howard Cadle might have relished the prescience of his autobiography's title, How I Came
                    Back. His own existence has nearly been forgotten. But in spirit, if not in flesh, the Country
                    Preacher has come back yet again.
            
               Hankins, God's Rascal: J. Frank Norris and the Beginnings of Southern
                            Fundamentalism (
                            Lexington
                        , Ky., 1996); Hangen, Redeeming the Dial; Philip Goff,
                        "Fighting Like the Devil in the City of Angels: The Rise of Fundamentalist Charles E.
                        Fuller," Metropolis in the Making., ed. Sitton and Deverell. On the
                        emergence of right-wing populism in the twentieth century, see Christopher Lasch, The True and Only Heaven: Progress and Its Critics (
                            New York
                        , 1991), 509-517.
               
                  87 Frances FitzGerald, Cities on a Hill: A Journey Through
                            Contemporary American Cultures (
                            New York
                        , 1986), 121-201; Michael Lienesch, Redeeming America: Politics and
                            Piety in the New Christian Right (
                            Chapel Hill
                        , N.C., 1993); Alan Brinkley, "The Problem of American
                        Conservatism," American Historical Review, 99 (April 1994), 409-29;
                        Christian Smith, Christian America? What Evangelicals Really Want (Berkeley,
                        Calif., 2000); Susan Friend Harding, The Book of Jerry Falwell: Fundamentalist
                            Language and Politics (
                            Princeton
                        , N J., 2000); Lisa McGirr; Suburban Warriors: The Origins of the New
                            American Right (
                            Princeton
                        , N J., 2001).
            
         
         
         
            Memories of the Ku Klux Klan in One Indiana Town
            WILLIAM CLAYTON WILKINSON, JR.
            
                    The Moving Finger writes; and, having writ,
                    Moves on: nor all your Piety nor Wit
                    Shall lure it back to cancel half a Line,
                    Nor all your tears wash out a Word of it.
                    Omar Khayyam, "The Rubaiyat" (1120 CE), LXXI
                
            During the summer of 1924 the Ku Klux Klan carried out four distinct aggressive actions in the
                    northern Indiana town of North Judson. I was a lad of ten years at the time; I watched two of these
                    events unfold before my eyes and I witnessed the evidence of the others in the days that followed. A
                    fiery cross, a public parade, a homemade bomb, and open vandalism-these acts threatened all of the
                    Catholics in our community, and, for me, left scars that have not been erased in the intervening
                    eight decades. Midway through high school I left North Judson behind, but though I graduated from
                    Purdue University, moved to the East Coast, and worked a lifelong career as an engineer, the
                    memories remain.
            I have never really discussed the incidents with anyone, although I have, on occasion, reminisced for
                    the benefit of my own four children. 
                  William C. Wilkinson, Jr., is a retired engineer who now writes local history.
               
                     Twice I set out to put the story on paper, but neither attempt
                    came to fruition. Some years ago I felt that I should check my own memory, and I hired a person to
                    comb the Starke County newspapers for any shred of documentation of the incidents. She turned up a
                    small amount of additional information but nothing at variance with my memory.
            Having myself annotated two family histories written by my ancestors, I know that such recollections
                    can in fact be accurate, particularly when they concern important events that have become firmly
                    embedded in a person's mind.1 This, I believe, is the case with my
                    memories of the Klan in North Judson. I knew these people; I delivered newspapers to their doors; I
                    went to high school with their children. In face-to-face encounters I never felt threatened by them;
                    yet their public acts were committed behind a veil of secrecy.
            Speaking of Indiana's Klan-marked past, one 
                        Noblesville
                     resident concluded that "You can't burn history."2 As Omar Khayyam writes, such tragedies of the past cannot be washed away with
                    tears either. My purpose is neither to cry nor to condemn. I present these incidents only to record
                    a bit of history not yet put to print. In so doing, I stress the deliberate and vicious nature of
                    the Klan's activities in my home town.
            Shortly before the time of my birth, a Starke County historian had pointed to "the spirit of
                    progress" that typified the area in its early days. Beginning with a first white settler
                    and first white child (1835), county boosters traced a line of development through a sawmill (1849),
                    county organization (1850), and the founding of the towns of 
                        Knox
                     (1850) and North Judson (1860). Soon, four different rail lines-the 
                        Chicago
                     & Great Eastern (1861); the 
                        Chicago
                     & Atlantic (1885); the Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , & 
                        Iowa
                     (1887); and the 
                  Cincinnati, Richmond
               , & 
                        Muncie
                     (1902)-converged on North Judson, transforming the "enterprising lit-tle
                    city" into the county's "railroad center."3
            
            
               
                  1 One of these was published as William C. Wilkinson, ed., "To do
                        for my self: Footloose on the Old Northwest Frontier," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, 86 (December 1990), 399-420.
               
                  2 Allen Safianow, ‘"You Can't Burn
                        History’: Getting Right with the Klan in 
                            Noblesville
                        , Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History,, 100 (June
                        2004), 109-54.
               
                  3 Chester A. McCormick, McCormick's Guide to Starke
                            County, or, A Past and a Present View of Our Territory. ([
                            Knox
                        , Ind.], 1902), 6, 22; Perry McCormick et al., North Judson Review
                        (North Judson, Ind., 1965), 9; "The Railroad History of North Judson,"
                        http://hvrm.railfan.net/history. html.
            
            
            By the time of my childhood, the rail lines (three of which connected to 
                        Chicago
                    ) not only brought progress but also speculation and vice to Starke County. Some of 
                        Chicago
                    's better-known gangsters slipped out of the city for high jinks, bootlegging,
                    and gambling at English Lake, a crossroads community on the Kankakee River in the northern part of
                    the county, and at Bass Lake, a few miles east of North Judson.4
            
            Three miles to the southeast of town, meanwhile, the C & O built a station in the Lena Park
                    development, which boosters touted as a "new manufacturing Center" that would
                    "becom[e] a Great City only surpassed by the World's most rapid growth town, Gary,
                    Indiana." Each Sunday, excursion trains from 
                        Chicago
                     provided free rides to persons wishing to escape the city for a chance to purchase one
                    of "thousands of lots" spread across more than 2,000 acres. The bubble burst when
                    manufacturers determined that the local sands were ill-suited for the cutglass factory originally
                    planned for Lena Park. Those who had purchased the lots lost their invested funds.5
            
            The settlers who had responded to the opportunities promised at Lena Park were predominantly recent
                    immigrants from eastern Europe. Still other immigrants followed Indiana's Monon Railroad to
                    San Pierre, ten miles west of North Judson, or came to North Judson after having attended the
                    Bohemian Turner Society's annual summer picnic.6 According to census
                    records, almost 22 percent of the households in North Judson's 
                        Wayne
                     Township in 1920 were headed by immigrants from Bohemia (now the 
                        Czech Republic
                    ), 
                        Italy
                    , or 
                        Poland
                    ; Germans accounted for another 9 percent.7
            
            
               
                  4 Today the Starke County Historical Society describes the lakes as having
                        been "the playground of the ‘rich and famous’ during the early
                        1900s." http://www.in-map.net/counties/STARKE/government/starke_county_history.htm.
               
                  5 Centennial Committee, Starke County Centennial,
                        1850-1950 (
                            Knox
                        , Ind., 1950), 9-13; J. H. Koren & Co., "Lena Park Promotional
                        Brochure," http://www.lenapark.net/history_2.html.
               
                  6
                        Starke County Centennial, 21; North Judson-
                            Wayne
                         Township Public Library, Pictures of the Past: Images and Descriptions
                            of Italian Immigrant Life in North Judson, Indiana (North Judson, 2001), 21,
                        www.eboilini.com; Keith Ezra and Robert Jachim, North Judson Centennial, North
                            Judson Centennial Committee (n.p., 1966), 61.
               
                  7 Neighboring Railroad Township reported similar East European figures,
                        with nearly 16 percent German in 1920. U.S., Fourteenth Census, Manuscript for 
                            Wayne
                         and Railroad Townships, Indiana, Microfilm T625, Roll 466. H. J. Alerding, The Diocese of Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , 1857-September 22-1907: A Book of
                            Historical Reference, 1669-1907 (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , Ind., 1907), 362-64; Pictures of the Past, 3.
            
            
            These new ethnic immigrants brought their Catholic faith with them. By the turn of the century their
                    numbers were sufficient to support a parish. This first church had been located in San Pierre, with
                    the priests administering to the North Judson members on a mission basis. With time this situation
                    was reversed, and North Judson became the more populated part of the parish.8 By
                    the end of the first decade of the twentieth century there were enough Catholics in the North Judson
                    area to finance a large church-Saints Cyril and Methodius-and a moderately-sized parochial school.
                    The former is still in use. The latter, a four-room, two-story brick edifice, has been razed in
                    recent years and a new building constructed at another location. Built near the parsonage and the
                    home of the teaching nuns (four or five Sisters of the St. Francis Order), the structures created a
                    close-knit Catholic compound one block from North Judson's main street.9
            
            Many of the arrivals from 
                        Chicago
                     were (or became) well-to-do families who did not fit readily into the category of
                    "poor immigrant." Catholic immigrants soon owned the town's major general
                    store (Two Joes, owned and operated by Joseph Dolezal and Joseph Sindelar), the Chrysler dealer
                    (Frank Vessely), and the major cafe and ice cream parlor (the Picchetti family), among other
                    businesses.
            1 knew of no blacks in the town. The only Jews, to my knowledge, were the Donchin family. Born in
                    Russia, Ben Donchin and his family had emigrated from 
                        Chicago
                     to North Judson. He and his two sons owned and operated the town's major
                    men's clothing store.
            My father descended from a long line of WASPs, while my mother descended from an equally long line of
                    Irish Catholics. Upon their marriage, my father converted to Roman Catholicism. Both of my parents
                    practiced the tenets, in the broad sense, throughout their lifetimes. I cannot recall ever having
                    heard a bigoted remark from either. They had five sons, of whom I was the second-born. My older
                    brother was smarter, larger, and more vocal. I did a lot of listening at the dinner table.
            The Klan exercised a direct impact on our family and, although I was not much more than a child, I
                    knew about it. For almost a full decade before their marriage, both of my parents had taught
                    elementary school in the one- and two-room schools of Indiana. Later, my father 
                  
                     8 Alerding, Diocese of Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                , 362-64.
                  
                     9 Ezra and Jachim, North Judson Centennial,
                        23-25.
               
                     became the teaching principal at English Lake. Then, as the
                    result of the 1922 Railroad Township trustees‘ election-in which Leonard Rennewanz
                    replaced Dr. W. J. Solt-my father suddenly found himself to be of the wrong religion and he was
                    summarily dropped. This first jolt from the KKK sent us to North Judson, where my father ceased
                    teaching and began to look for work in construction. Difficulties continued, but there were enough
                    Catholic families with building and maintenance needs to keep our collective heads above water.
            When we moved from English Lake to North Judson, my parents enrolled us in the public school. I spent
                    a number of weeks in a singlegrade classroom and thus became acquainted with some of the public
                    school children. Following pressure from our priest, however, and much to my dismay, my parents
                    transferred us to the four-room parochial school.
            There was no formal interaction between we parochial school children and our public school
                    counterparts, but we did have mixed group activities. A vacant lot on my end of town drew all of us
                    to play baseball. Promoters of the Enterprise Development project had laid out streets and planted
                    trees before the bust forced them to halt. Any available children played in the "work
                    up" sandlot baseball games. We formed a team (named after the failed land project) and
                    played another team from the north end of town. In addition to baseball, bicycling and the
                    construction and use of hoops and wheels brought boys of differing backgrounds together after school
                    hours. We boys also belonged to the same community-wide Boy Scout troop. I remember that one big
                    event was a weeklong campout at newly opened Schaffer Lake-at that time, still filled with stumps.
            My acquaintance with public school children continued when I was hired as a weed puller in the onion
                    fields. The muck lands of Starke County were very productive for truck farming, and there were many
                    acres planted in onions, carrots, and mint. Each hot summer day, my employer, a Japanese man,
                    trucked ten to fifteen boys and girls to crawl up and down rows of growing onions for the purpose of
                    pulling errant weeds but leaving the tender onions. (Although I didn't realize it at the
                    time, the salary of 20 cents per hour was more than I would earn for quite a few years as we
                    approached the Great Depression.) During those long and tiring days, a certain amount of comradeship
                    developed out of the commonality of our burdens.
            We boys also found the railroad to be an endless source of adventure. The four major lines, with
                    their switching yards and repair shops,  took up a significant
                    part of the town. The elder boys of our group would occasionally hop on the side ladder of a freight
                    car as it made a slow start-up; I was too small to participate. Another occasional interest was the
                    collection of "babbitt"-a low-melting-point alloy from the overheated journal
                    bearings of freight car wheels that had various uses by schoolboy experimenters. Our main interest
                    came in trying to flatten pennies by placing them on the rails in front of an advancing engine. This
                    brought us into contact with the railroad detectives who chased us away from the vicinity of the
                    tracks. These men patrolled the extensive railroad yards of the town; we held them in great respect
                    as on one or more occasions they had shot a hobo trespasser. The alley on the side yard of our
                    school was the route for accessing the rear entrance to the funeral parlor that held one of these
                    bodies. With some stealth and a certain amount of courage, it was possible for young lads to
                    approach this rear entrance and peak through a window into the layout room.
            We also respected Louis Danti, the town marshal. He was an Italian immigrant and a member of our
                    church. Danti had a large number of children with, apparently, no mother. One of the boys, Joe, was
                    in my room at school. Louis patrolled the town's main business area after dark and into the
                    early hours of morning. The local Ku Klux Klan purported to control lawlessness, and I was aware
                    that the Horse Thief Detective Association had some connection with the Klan (at least this was what
                    I understood). However, in North Judson there was very little that could be considered lawless-until
                    the night of the shootout.
            Donchin's Men's Clothing Store had a recessed entrance with numerous plate-glass
                    windows, behind which stood dummies clothed with Hart Schaffner & Marx suits. It was within
                    this almost closed area that Louis Danti surprised a burglar who drew on him. Louis immedi-ately
                    pulled his own gun and fired at the burglar, who escaped. This was Louis's story, and there
                    were holes in the plate-glass windows to prove it. However, there were also unkind murmurs to the
                    effect that Louis had really shot at his own reflection.
            The physical embodiment of law and order was the town jail, located in the basement of a brick
                    building that also housed the water-works on the first floor, and the fire department on the second.
                    (From this height, the town's single fire engine exited via a long ramp.) Whenever the jail
                    held a prisoner-which was seldom-its ground-level barred windows could also be approached in a
                    somewhat stealthy manner at dusk, and, if the lights were on, we could see into the cell and with
                    quick glances examine the inmate.
            
            
               Main Street, North Judson, Indiana
               Late in the evening of July 24, 1924, rohed Klansmen marched down Main and Lane Streets in a show
                        of intimidation against North Judson's Catholic residents. Courtesy Indiana Historical
                        Society
            
            In a public lot adjacent to this jail, at the corner of Keller Avenue and Main Street, the Klan
                    committed its first public act of Catholic intimidation. Here, next to the nunnery, they erected two
                    timbers or tree limbs configured as a cross of Christ. The two crossed posts were wrapped with
                    burlap or some other cheap cloth, doused with kerosene, and set on fire. In the dead of night it was
                    a spectacular sight. Across the street from a vacant jail, the charred structure stood for several
                    days as a stern reminder of law and order, Klan style.
            Several days later, the town's only newspaper, the weekly North Judson
                    News, used the word "orderly" to describe the Klan's next act-an
                    impressive parade routed down the extent of Lane Street and then onto Main Street, which began after
                    nine o'clock p.m. on Thursday, July 24, 1924.10 I watched it from the
                    corner of Adair and Lane Streets with my 
                  
                     10"Klansmen Parade in No. Judson," North Judson News, July 31, 1924.
               
                    
                    
                  CATHOLIC PARSONAGE AT NORTH JUDSON DYNAMITED
                  The Catholic parsonage at North Judson was dynamited about 12:15 A. M., Tuesday morning and
                            considerable damage done. The bomb or whatever it was, was thrown through the glass door to
                            the screened in porch and when it exploded, the glass in the doors and windows of the house
                            were broken, a big hole was torn in the cement porch and other damage done.
                  Extract from the Starke County Democrat, July 30, 1924
                classmate, Ralph Dolezal. I remember companies of marchers in white robes topped with the
                    conical white hats and masks that covered their faces. These were preceded by numbers of similarly
                    costumed members mounted on horses. Many were carrying flaming torches that added emphasis to the
                    eerie and threatening spectacle. More than anything else, however, the most striking and impressive
                    part of the parade was a float of a public school building. The attached labeling-which read
                    "Little Red Schoolhouse"-left no doubt as to what was being targeted: our
                    parochial school! To a ten-year-old schoolboy, this was a body blow.
            The third act took place five days later, in the early morning hours of July 29, when an explosion
                    rocked the home of our resident priest, Father A. C. 
                        Van
                     Rie. He and the housekeeper, Mary McNeal, both awoke to the sound of shattering glass
                    and headed to the door. The housekeeper, who reached the entrance first, was just opening the door
                    as the bomb exploded. "Every glass window in the front of the porch and front of the house
                    was broken to 'smithereens' and several windows in other parts of the house were
                    also broken," the News reported. "The front doors were blown completely off their
                    hinges and much of the  siding on the building was torn into
                    shreds. The ceiling was also badly damaged and a mass of glass was scattered throughout the house
                    and yard."11 The housekeeper suffered serious lacerations from the
                    flying glass, but the priest-the attackers' likely target-remained physically unharmed.
            Every boy knew that the bomb was surely a stick or two of dynamite. The materials for such an
                    explosive-dynamite, a mercury fulminate detonator (called a cap), and a length of fuse line-were
                    available at many of the farmsteads of rural Indiana. I have seen these items put together many
                    times to blow out tree stumps. Using a pencil, a stick, or a knife, one made a hole and inserted the
                    detonator into the end of the dynamite. One end of the detonator-a copper cylinder about one-fourth
                    inch in diameter and two inches long-was hollowed out for insertion of the fuse. These detonators
                    were so common in North Judson that they were used as trade goods among school boys. I once came
                    into possession of one and carried it around in my pocket for several days. Eventually we fired it
                    by rolling it up in a newspaper, lighting the paper, and running like mad for safety. A bomb left on
                    a doorstep, however, leaves nowhere to run.
            Several weeks later, in the early fall of 1924, vandals marred the stonework at the entrance to
                    Saints Cyril and Methodius. This fourth incident may seem inconsequential in light of the earlier
                    violence, but when I went up the steps to attend morning mass I felt that I was walking through a
                    battlefield. Large spheres of stone, broken pieces of concrete, and other detritus were scattered
                    over the steps to the entryway.
            These four incidents seemed to have been orchestrated in their timing and gradation of violence and
                    viciousness: flaming timbers in a public lot, followed by the parade of robed marchers at dusk,
                    emphasized by the explosion at the parsonage, and capped off by the effacement of our church
                    building. If the explosion and vandalism were not planned components of the intimidation campaign,
                    they were, at minimum, encouraged by the emotions generated by the parade. In my mind it was
                    patently clear that the Klan was the underlying cause, if not the direct perpetrator, of these
                    hate-filled acts. I also knew that, by targeting my school and my church, the Klan aimed at me.
            
               
                  11 "Catholic Parsonage Bombed," North
                            Judson News, July 31, 1924.
            
            
            The events of the summer of 1924 became an issue in our home. At the outset, my mother had played
                    down the burning cross as being of little importance. She could not continue to do so in the wake of
                    the parade, the bombing, and the vandalism. Although the events were not really discussed, a sense
                    of direness passed from parents to children without the necessity of words.
            The incidents seem never to have been discussed by the nun in our classroom-at least I have no
                    recollection of such. Nor do I recall any mention by the priest during Sunday masses. The 
                        Belgium
                    -born Fathe 
                        Van
                     Rie possessed a commanding presence-one that certainly displayed itself on those
                    occasions when he stood at the front of the class-room as a higher authority for major classroom
                    crimes. I think that by the time of the Klan episodes he had had considerable experience with
                    bigots. Also, he ministered to a large parish of two communities, many of whose members had stature
                    in their own right. This must have given him the courage to downplay these vicious acts in a spirit
                    of charity and to maintain the goodwill of the mainstream of the town. He was an important and
                    significant member of the community. When he was transferred to a larger parish a few years later,
                    he left with the town's accolades.
            Until quite recently I had never discussed these events with anyone from the North Judson area. One
                    day I called an oldster in the town. He is a year older than I, but went through school two years
                    ahead of me. At the time of our conversation he was quite lucid, attributing the bombing either to
                    the Klan or to a dissident parishioner reacting to Reverend 
                        Van
                     Rie's refusal to baptize the man's daughter. While the latter is not
                    an unreasonable hypothesis, it in no way lessens the responsibility of the Klan, which staged its
                    incendiary parade just five days before the bombing.
            Neither the fiery cross nor the church vandalism merited mention in the town newspaper. The parade,
                    on the other hand, received a lengthy and laudatory write-up on the front page of the North Judson News. Described as the gala event that it apparently was to the
                    Klan's followers the "spectacular parade" concluded with an open meeting
                    in which Klan members and public "were brushing shoulders." The major speaker of
                    the evening, a Reverend Tilman of Grass Creek, Indiana, addressed the "necessity of
                    restoring the Bible"-meaning the King James version, certainly-"into our public
                    schools." Despite its admiring tone, the account is also vague and distant, noting only
                    that "hundreds"  of Klansmen were watched by
                    "hundreds" of spectators while the rain kept "hundreds" of
                    others away.12
            
            The same day's front page also carried news of the bombing, "a most dastardly deed
                    [that] was committed in our little city" The account emphasized that while the
                    "terrific explosion was heard for several miles around and aroused many of our citizens
                    from their slumber," no one had any foreknowledge of the event. The paper noted
                    "several slight clues [that] will be traced in an effort to apprehend those guilty of this
                    and other recent dastardly crimes, which are too low for any self respect-ing citizen to
                    countenance." The Starke County Democrat (published in nearby 
                        Knox
                    ) also carried a front-page article on the explosion, noting that "[n]o clue
                    whatever was left by the person or persons who threw the bomb, but it is the sincere hope of every
                    good thinking citizen that the perpetrator be speedily brought to justice." Neither paper
                    made any reference to the possible participation of the Klan. The "slight clues"
                    apparently did not prove fruitful either.13 The desecration of the church was
                    not covered in the papers, perhaps because vandalism seemed less "newsworthy" than
                    a bombing and the near-death of a housekeeper. After that, the topic disappeared from public
                    discussion.
            I do not recall any incidents between children that had any connection to the Klan. Public and
                    parochial school boys continued to interact with each other on the baseball field and in the scout
                    troop. Such scuffles as there were resulted from the normal childhood differences in sizes and
                    personalities.
            The Catholic and Protestant parts of the community also continued to come together each fall at the
                    annual weeklong Jubilee. The farmers exhibited their produce and entered it for prizes. The
                    merchants and social organizations set up stands that sold food and trinkets. The town 
                  
                     12 "Klansmen Parade in No. Judson," North Judson News, July 31, 1924. Grass Creek was a small crossroads community in
                            the southwest comer of adjoining 
                                Fulton County
                            , located about 30 miles southeast of North Judson.
                  
                     13 "Klansmen Parade in No. Judson," North Judson News, July 31, 1924; "Catholic Parsonage at North Judson
                            Dynamited," Starke County Democrat, July 30, 1924. Both accounts
                            state that the bomb was thrown through the glass door of the porch. This seems unlikely, as
                            there was a real danger such a delivery would have shock-activated the detonator, thus
                            injuring the perpetrator. As the front of the house was completely destroyed by the
                            explosion there would have been no physical evidence of such throwing. I prefer to believe
                            that the bomb was placed on the porch floor, and then the doorbell was rung or, possibly,
                            the glass in the door was smashed to arouse the residents.
               
                     fathers built large elevated stages-one at each end of Lane
                    Street (the Klan's parade route)-on which hired performers entertained several times each
                    day. The town band participated by marching up and down the street and playing a few melodies. The
                    week was an exciting period for all children, certainly. During my last year or so in North Judson I
                    was a member of this band, full uniform and such. As my father had been a trombone player, my older
                    brother had inherited the horn and joined the band. In a few years I, too, became a trombone player
                    along with my friend Ralph. John Stejskal, a World War I veteran, was the director and gave us
                    training sessions each week after school. In 1930,1 moved away from North Judson, taking my memories
                    with me.
            Historians of the Klan movements distinguish the impulse of the 1920s from both the original movement
                    after the Civil War and the modern version that surfaced in the 1960s.14 While
                    different enough to allow separate descriptions, all three can be encompassed within a tent flying a
                    pennant labeled "KKK." Inside one finds white antis, wearing white sheets and
                    conical hats, imbued with their own sense of righteousness and sharing various forms and levels of
                    bigotry. All operated to some extent outside of the law and used fear and intimidation to further
                    their goals. Secrecy and mumbo-jumbo formed the glue binding the members.
            The Klan of the 1920s recruited the greatest number of supporters from the greatest number of places,
                    making it by far the largest and most widespread of the three movements. Between 1920 and 1926, the
                    Indiana Klan gained control of the state government and of many county governments. This power grab
                    ultimately landed Indiana Grand Wizard D. C. Stephenson and Indiana Governor 
                        Warren
                     T. McCray in jail; Governor Ed Jackson, who was affiliated with the group, should have
                    been put away as well.15
            
            For all that has been written about this period, historians of Indiana's Klan have gained
                    little access to firsthand knowledge of the inner workings of the organization, either at the state
                    or more local levels. 
                  
                     14 The standard history of the post-Civil War Klan is Allen W.
                            Trelease, White Terror: The Ku Klux Klan Conspiracy and Southern
                            Reconstruction (
                                New York
                            , 1971).
                  
                     15 James H. 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana through Tradition and Change (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1982), 44-75; see also the bibliography on the Klan, 415-16.
               
                     There is likewise a dearth of evidence from individual members
                    or from written organizational records. In my own purely pragmatic quest to know what happened in
                    North Judson and what caused it to happen, I have reviewed some of the historical literature on the
                    Klan in Indiana. While useful, I find that much of it remains speculative, and that it does not
                    necessarily square with my own experience-however limited that may be.
            The earliest historians and chroniclers of Klan activity generally cited nativism as the controlling
                    force behind the group's actions. In this interpretation, white Anglo-Saxon Protestants
                    united against the Roman Catholics, immigrants, and blacks.16 Others added to
                    this picture, to the point that one reviewer of the historical literature in 1977 could cite
                    "four major interpretations about the Klan's prominence in the 1920's,
                    that it was 1) a nativist response, 2) a last stand by rural Americans, 3) an outgrowth of World War
                    I hysteria, and 4) an urban phenomenon brought on by social dislocations."17
            
            More modern revisionists have been kinder to the hooded secret society. Leonard Moore, one of the
                    foremost among them, characterizes the group as a "populist organization" and
                    locates the motivation behind Indiana's Klan in "the deterioration of a sense of
                    cohesion, order, and shared power in community life," and "an awakened sense of
                    white Protestant ethnic identity [that] could be used to gain greater popular control over community
                    affairs." Moore concludes that "[s]upport for Prohibition represented the single
                    most important bond between Klansmen throughout the nation." While he has done a great deal
                    of research in the literature and in the Klan records of the 1920s, Moore's work is filled
                    with contradictory statements, and the information in his tables is hidden behind statistical
                    jargon. His sweeping statistical analysis prompts him to conclude that the Klan "went out
                    of its way to avoid confrontations in Catholic, Jewish, or black neighborhoods."18 Such a 
                  
                     16 James H. 
                                Madison
                            , The Indiana Way, A State History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1986), 292.
                  
                     17 Jill Suzanne Nevel, "Fiery Crosses and Tempers: The Ku
                            Klux Klan in 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 1923-1926" (Senior thesis, 
                                Princeton
                             University, 1977), 3.
                  
                     18 Leonard J. Moore, Citizen Klansmen: The Ku Klux Klan
                                in Indiana, 1921-1928 (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1991), 10, 11, 189-91. Moore lays out the revisionist position in
                            "Historical Interpretations of the 1920s Klan: The Traditional View and the
                            Populist Revision," Journal of Social History, 24 (Winter 1990),
                            341-57.
               
                     judgment clearly misses the mark when one looks at the events
                    of the summer of 1924 in North Judson.
            Indeed, not all current historians agree with the revisionists. In 2004, Allen Safianow concluded
                    from newly unearthed records in 
                        Hamilton County
                     that "the 
                        Noblesville
                     Klan was a manifestation of the racism, nativism, and anti-Catholicism that was a
                    central ingredient of white Anglo-Saxon, Protestant culture." It was a mainstream movement,
                    but it had "a strong base of bigotry to draw on."19
            
            Available records certainly attest to the "mainstream" quality of the group in my
                    own part of Indiana. Kluxers organized the Indiana Klan-the Realm-into thirteen provinces. Starke
                    County fell into province number 13, along with 
                  La
                        Porte, St. Joseph, Elkhart
               , Marshall, 
                        Kosciusko
                    , and 
                        Fulton
                     counties, all located in the north central part of the state. In 1925, two of the
                    principal province officers, the Great Titan and the Great Kligrapp, hailed from 
                        Knox
                     in Starke County. Each county also possessed its own lower-level organization. One of
                    the top officers was North Judson dentist F. O. Davis who later headed up the Chamber of Commerce.
                    Another was a 
                        Knox
                     minister. The county officials were evaluated in the Klan's local notes as
                    follows: "Judge not member but O.K.; prosecutor a member and O.K.; sheriff a member but not
                    true to the obligation; all other county officials are O.K." With a population of 9,850 and
                    a Klan membership of 725, Starke County boasted one of the highest percentages (31.8) of native-born
                    white male Kluxers in the state of Indiana-appreciably more than any of the other counties in its
                    province. Members came from a broad cross-section of the white Anglo-Saxon Protestants in the
                        area.20
            
            What brought on this relatively sudden enthusiasm for such a social phenomena? Broadly speaking, the
                    onset of Prohibition turned many into lawbreakers by their continued manufacturing, distribution,
                    and consumption of alcoholic beverages. The surge of immigration and the flight of immigrants from
                    the cities to the countryside aroused concerns for the continuity of local life. Someone was at
                    fault! Individuals and communities blamed a variety of culprits: Roman Catholics, immigrants, Jews,
                    blacks, bootleggers, mobsters, gamblers, corrupt politicians, 
                  
                     19 Safianow, ‘"You Can't Burn
                            History,’" 153.
                  
                     20 Ku Klux Klan, "Local Officers in Indiana, 1925,"
                            SC 2419 (Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ), 30, 43; Moore, Citizen Klansmen, 50.
               
                    
                    
                  Ku Klux Klan members leaving a Protestant church in 
                                Knox
                            , Starke County Indiana Picture Collection, Manuscript Section, Indiana State
                            Library
                and other out-of-the-mainstream strangers. The crisis mandated change, and perhaps Hugh
                    Emmons, head of the 
                        South Bend
                     Klan, really sensed the heart of the Klan thrust: "sell them the thing they
                        want."21 Historian James H. 
                        Madison
                     concludes that in Indiana, "[f]irst on the list of Klan enemies were Roman
                        Catholics."22 In North Judson, in the summer of 1924, Klan members
                    obviously believed that their way of life was being threatened, and to some extent it was. They were
                    not radicals, demons, or complete bigots, but they did see Catholics as the root of their problems.
                    It is unlikely that the bombing and vandalism resulted from direct orders by the Klan leaders.
                    However, an official Klan cross burning and parade clearly established an environment that led
                    directly to the more violent acts.
            
               
                  21
                        
                            Madison
                        , Indiana Through Tradition and Change, 51, n78.
               
                  22 Ibid., 46.
            
            
            This memoir, as noted by its title, is limited to the Klan activity in one small community in
                    northern Indiana: North Judson in Starke County I believe that the Klan activity in any one area can
                    be seen as the result of particular changes to that community. Attempts to categorize the
                    Klan's enemies and acts at the national or even at the state level have failed because
                    these acts were carried out by individuals or small groups. Likewise, attempts to portray the Klan
                    as a civic organization that sought to "avoid confrontation" ignore the reality of
                    the terror that many of us experienced firsthand. In North Judson there was violence, vicious and
                    frightening, and as a ten-year-old boy I knew then, just as I know now, that it was directed at me
                    and at all of the Catholics in my community.
         
         
         
            Hoosier Author as Diplomat Meredith Nicholson in Latin America, 1933-1941
            RALPH D. GRAY
            Meredith Nicholson (1866-1947) was an important figure in Indiana's "Golden
                    Age" of literature, which extended roughly from 1880 to 1920. One of the "Big
                    Four" writers-with James Whitcomb Riley, George Ade, and Booth Tarkington-Nicholson
                    authored twentyeight books, all but two of which were published between 1903 and 1929, a period in
                    which he wrote full time. Most of these works were best-selling novels, but he also produced a
                    history, a book of short stories, four collections of essays, two books of poetry, and a co-authored
                    play. His third novel, The House of a Thousand Candles (1905), a thrilling
                    adventure/mystery story set in northern Indiana, was by far his most popular and most successful
                    book. Translated into five languages and still in print today, it has sold more than half a million
                        copies.1
            
            
               Ralph D. Gray is emeritus professor of history at Indiana University-Purdue University 
                            Indianapolis
                        . This paper is based upon a portion of the author's forthcoming book, Meredith Nicholson: A Writing Life, scheduled for publication by the Indiana
                        Historical Society Press in 2007.
               
                  1 Brief biographical information and a list of Nicholson's books
                        can be found in R. E. Banta, comp., Indiana Authors and Their Books, 1816-1916 (
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Ind., 1949), 237-39. See also Arthur W. Shumaker, A History of
                            Indiana Literature, With Emphasis on the Authors of Imaginative Works who Commenced Writing
                            prior to World War II (Indiana Historical Collections,
            
            
            
               Meredith Nicholson and James Whitcomb Riley, 1914 Popular writers Nicholson and Riley, with
                        George Ade and Booth Tarkington, made up the group known as Indiana's "Big
                        Four" authors. Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        -
                            Marion County
                         Public Library Riley Collection
            
            In 1929, however, Nicholson's writing stopped, apparently as a result of the financial
                    devastation experienced by the family in the stock market collapse. Soon afterwards, Nicholson
                    suffered an even greater loss in the death of his beautiful and talented wife, Eugenie, who had been
                    his inspiration and helpmeet throughout his writing years.2 Jobless, 
                  Vol. 42; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1962), 325-37; and Ralph D. Gray, "‘The Most Rabid of
                            Hoosiers’: Meredith Nicholson," Traces of Indiana and
                                Midwestern History, 9 (Spring 1997), 14-27.
                  
                     2 Eugenie Kountze, who had married Nicholson in June 1896, was raised
                            in Omaha, 
                                Nebraska
                            , and earned a Phi Beta Kappa key en route to graduation from Vassar College in
                            1889. Although frequently ill, she regularly assisted her not-formally-educated husband in
                            plotting his novels and in selecting quotations-particularly from Shakespeare-for use in
                            them. In an autobiographical essay published in Collier's
                            magazine in 1926, Nicholson credited her for making "it possible for me to
                            accomplish what anyone with the slightest discernment would have said . . .I could never
                            do." Nicholson, "Without Benefit of College," reprinted in Old Familiar Faces
                  
               
                     nearly destitute, and forced in 1931 to give up his home on
                    North Meridian Street, Nicholson's prospects at the outset of the Great Depression seemed
                    dim indeed.
            A lifelong Democrat who had been active behind the scenes in the campaigns of others, Nicholson
                    turned for help to his political friends who came into power at that time. Nicholson's
                    longtime friend and personal physician, Dr. Carleton B. McCulloch-who was also a former
                    gubernatorial candidate and current chairman of the Democratic state committee-became his chief
                    promoter. McCulloch enlisted the help of their mutual friend, future governor Paul V. McNutt. In
                    1933, President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who knew Nicholson only by reputation, responded to their
                    entreaties with the offer of a diplomatic appointment to Paraguay.3 As a result,
                    at the age of 66, Nicholson began a new career as a diplomat. Although surprisingly successful, his
                    years abroad would prove star-crossed. After a transfer to a more favorable post in Venezuela in
                    1935, Nicholson found the rising path of his new career suddenly veering downward under mysterious
                    circumstances in 1938 with his demotion to Nicaragua. It was there, in 1941, that he decided to end
                    his service abroad.
            Nicholson's nearly eight years as an American diplomat began in October 1933. No known
                    record explains his selection for the Paraguayan mission: he seemed to be both a deserving and
                    qualified candidate for this remote and low-profile position. A month of
                    "instruction" at the State Department provided the new diplomat with general
                    details of the situation in Paraguay and taught him the basic protocols for a minister of his rank.
                    Then, literally on the eve of his departure, Nicholson married his secretary, Dorothy Wolfe Lannon,
                    of 
                        Marion
                    , Indiana. This action proved fateful, both in terms of Nicholson's initial
                    success in dealing with Latin Americans and, more ominously, in terms of his subsequent demotion.
            Following a long cruise from 
                        New York
                     City to Buenos Aires aboard the S. S. Southern Cross, a four-day
                    steamboat ride up the Parana 
                  (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1929), 115. See also Roberta West Nicholson, interviews by E Gerald Handfield,
                            Jr., March 11, 16, 1977 (Indiana State Library, Manuscripts Division, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     3See Nicholson to McCulloch, September 29, 1933, in which he thanked
                            the Democratic leader for getting him started on his diplomatic adventures. Frequent
                            references to Paul and Kathleen McNutt also appear in this correspondence. Carleton B.
                            McCulloch Collection, A249 (Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
               
                    
                    
                  Nicholson and his legation staff in Paraguay, c. 1934 (1-r) Nicholson, third secretary George
                            H. 
                                Butler
                            , and clerks Philip Raine and Donald S. 
                                Kent
                            
                  
                  
                     The American Foreign Service Journal, 11 (October 1934), 519
                and the Paraguay rivers brought the Nicholsons to the Paraguayan capital of Asuncion.
                    There, the couple quickly settled into their new life, thanks in large measure to Spanish-speaking
                    Dorothy's ability to help with the social requirements of entertaining guests and to
                    communicate with the local staff, merchants, and (frequently needed) repairmen.4
                    Soon after arriving, the new minister presented his credentials to President Eusebio Ayala
                    (1875-1942), with whom he struck an immediate rapport. A writer like Nicholson, Ayala welcomed the
                    North American novelist with sincere warmth.5 As the weeks wore on, 
                  
                     4 Nicholson admitted to a friend back home that "frankly, I
                            shouldn't have been able to stay here if I had come alone. Dorothy takes excellent
                            care of me and she has been doing heroic tasks fixing up this old palace. If painters and
                            carpenters are difficult in Indiana, they are forty times worse in these parts."
                            Nicholson to Margaret [Shipp], January 27, 1934, Meredith Nicholson Collection, A 285
                            (Indiana Historical Society).
                  
                     5 This rapport between authors was serendipitous rather than planned.
                            Ayala is remembered in his native country as both a "Victory President" in
                            the Chaco War and as a literary man. Justo
               
                     Nicholson dined alone with Ayala almost every Sunday evening,
                    often learning about Paraguayan military or peacekeeping plans long before the representatives from
                    other countries. This inside information, which he promptly passed on to his superiors in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., put Nicholson, as he boasted to his friend and confidant McCulloch,
                    "about ten laps ahead of the other dips."6
            
            Nicholson's position grew increasingly more significant as events unfolded around him. No
                    existing records suggest that he received any special instructions about the post, but since 1928
                    Paraguay and 
                        Bolivia
                     had battled over the territory known as the Gran Chaco. The area was large-some 150,000
                    square miles, roughly the size of 
                        Montana
                     (or four times the size of Indiana)-low-lying, swampy, virtually uninhabited, and
                    economically marginal, "without vegetable or mineral wealth." Unproven rumors
                    persisted, however, that the region contained valuable petroleum deposits. Additionally, the quest
                    for access to the Atlantic via a port on the Paraguay River motivated land-locked 
                        Bolivia
                    's attempted military takeover of the region. State department official Sumner
                    Welles called the Chaco War the "most bitter inter-American dispute" of the
                    century. Nicholson's diplomatic role was complicated by the popular Paraguayan suspicion
                    that American "dollar diplomacy" or "petroleum
                    imperialism"-specifically the Standard Oil Company-supported the Bolivian effort.7
            
            Repeatedly, with Nicholson's support, League of Nations commissioners tried to mediate the
                    Chaco War but those efforts, apart from an unpopular armistice foolishly suggested by President
                    Ayala in late 
                  Prieto, Eusebio Ayala, presidente de le victoria (Buenos Aires, 1950);
                            Ayala, Aspectos americanos de la-personalidad de Sarmiento, Museo
                            Historico Sarmiento, serie 2, no. 4 (Buenos Aires, 1939). An interesting way to learn about
                            Paraguay and its people, geography, and early history is through a heavily factual novel by
                            Edward Lucas White, El Supremo: A Romance of the Great Dictator of
                            Paraguay (
                                New York
                            , 1916).
                  
                     6 Nicholson to McCulloch, October 13, 1933, McCulloch Collection. The
                            collection is the best source of information regarding Nicholson's years in Latin
                            America generally. In particular, Nicholson describes his reception in Asuncion and his
                            quickly developing relationship with Ayala.
                  
                     7
                            The Chaco Peace Conference: Report of the Delegation of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America to the Peace Conference Held at Buenos Aires July 1,
                                l935-]anuary 23, 1939 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1940), 3. Considerable literature treats the Chaco War, a major event in
                            Paraguay's history. David H. Zook, The Conduct of the Chaco War (
                                New York
                            , 1960); Hubert Herring, A History of Latin America, from the
                                Beginning to the Present, 3ded. (
                                New York
                            , 1972); Robert Craig Johnson, "The Gran Chaco War: Fighting for
                            Mirages in the Foothills of the Andes" (1996), http://worldatwar.
                            net/chandelle/vl/vln3/chaco.html.
               
                     December 1933, came to nothing. The armistice actually gave 
                        Bolivia
                     welcome respite and a chance to increase the size of its fighting force. Despite their
                    numbers, the Bolivian foot soldiers, usually Indians from the altiplano of La Paz
                    with an elevation of some 12,000 to 14,000 feet, found conditions in the low-lying, snake-infested
                    swamplands of the Chaco most unpleasant and dispiriting. Fighting resumed in January 1934 when the
                    truce expired, but eventually an agreement in June 1935 ended the hostilities and a peace treaty
                    followed in 1938, giving the vic-torious Paraguayans clear title to the disputed region while also
                    opening up a small corridor through it to give 
                        Bolivia
                     its desired river port.
            Nicholson played an important role in reporting on conditions in Asuncion and Paraguay during his
                    fifteen months on duty there, and his personal popularity helped overcome resentment against the
                    Americans for their oil company's alleged support of 
                        Bolivia
                    . His monthly reports to the State Department on the "General Conditions
                    Prevailing in Paraguay," demonstrate a flair for interesting writing and astute political
                    insights that perhaps drew as much on his twelve years as a reporter and editor for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News as it did on his experience as a novelist and essayist.
            From his earliest reports, Nicholson displayed a confidence in his information and an understanding
                    of the complexities of the war and of Paraguayan life and society. These messages supplemented his
                    frequent telegraphic dispatches to the State Department, and included pertinent extracts from the
                    Asuncion newspapers, each clearly identified as to its political leanings. Nicholson's
                    characterizations of the people whom he encountered in his work were candid and pointed. He wrote,
                    for example, that he considered Ayala's appointment to the negotiating table of one of his
                    leading critics to be "good politics" but probably not "such good
                    diplomacy." "[He is] notoriously intransigent," wrote Nicholson of Dr.
                    Geronimo Zubizaretta, "a lawyer with a medieval reverence for form and precedent, a
                    forceful advocate but an unpleasant negotiator whom the Commission has not found easy to deal
                    with." In another letter, he described Dr. Justo Pastor Benitez, the principal Paraguayan
                    delegate at the Seventh Pan-American Conference in Montevideo in 1933, as being ineffective because
                    of "his intoxication with his own eloquence."8
            
            
               
                  8 "General Conditions Prevailing in Paraguay," January
                        15, 1934, State Department Files, Latin America, RG56 (National Archives and Records
                        Administration, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.). Nicholson's regular reports (usually monthly) bore the same title
                        with different dates of preparation.
            
            
            Nicholson never shied away from making critical remarks about the members of even the highest circles
                    of Paraguayan government. Reviewing the country's succession of officeholders between 1912
                    and 1928, he noted that in a period "which should have covered four administrations of four
                    years, there were 8 Presidents, 4 Vice-Presidents, and 59 Cabinet Ministers. These 71 offices were
                    held by the same 28 men, who shifted about from one post to another. Very probably a few new leaders
                    will emerge as a result of the war, but the tendency in Paraguay is for the Government to have the
                    nature of a monopoly held by a few families." Later, in a "confidential"
                    analysis of President Ayala's administration, he pointed to "some
                    differences" within the cabinet which had led to the appointment of a new minister for
                    foreign affairs and to the dismissal of "several army officers" for
                    "alleged failures in the Chaco." "It is obvious," Nicholson
                    continued, "that popular unrest is growing" and that "the internal
                    political situation has distinctly disturbing features."9
            
            These letters also regularly featured the ambassador's remarks on various aspects of life
                    and society in the capital city. Although Nicholson praised Asuncion, in a published essay, for its
                    "old world charm" and its "beautiful and picturesque"
                    countryside, his private letters and internal reports reveal another city altogether. He noted the
                    city's "alarming health conditions" exacerbated by the lack of a sewer
                    system and the "flies and skeeters" that gathered everywhere. Most of the homes
                    lacked fireplaces or furnaces, he added, even though temperatures dipped to near-freezing levels at
                    times. The exceptions, according to Nicholson, were a few homes with tiny electric heaters
                    "about the size of a pocket watch."10
            
            Despite his achievements in Paraguay, Nicholson eagerly desired reassignment to a place nearer home
                    with less primitive conditions. In his private correspondence with McCulloch he regularly noted
                    vacancies in places that he considered attractive-including Albania, 
                        Chile
                    , and the Irish Free State-and he expressed his hope that McCulloch, through Governor
                    McNutt, would keep Nicholson's availability and 
                  
                     9 "General Conditions Prevailing in Paraguay," May
                            4, July 6, 1934.
                  
                     10 Nicholson, "The Land of the Tall Poinsettia," The American Foreign Service Journal, 11 (October 1934), 517-19, 554-55;
                            Nicholson to McCulloch, January 12, 1935, McCulloch Collection.
               
                    
                    
                  The American Legation building, Asuncion, Paraguay, c. 1934 Nicholson arrived to find the
                            building in great need of repairs, commenting to a friend, "If painters and
                            carpenters are difficult in Indiana, they are forty times worse in these parts."
                  
                     The American Foreign Service Journal, 11 (October 1934), 519
                interest in relocating before the president. His friends at home were aware of this and
                    did all they could. As McCulloch reported back to Nicholson in December 1934,
                        Paul [McNutt] was in 
                                Washington
                             . . . and had a long interview with the President, in the course of which he
                            brought up the matter of your transfer. The President told him he already had definitely in
                            mind the question of transferring you to some more attractive post and went further and
                            intimated that an ambassadorship for you was in his mind when a suitable vacancy occurred.
                            He went on to tell Paul that you have been doing an outstanding job and he is very much
                            pleased with what you have accomplished. He did say, though, that with Paraguayan-Bolivian
                            conditions being what they are just now you have really made  yourself too valuable to justify a transfer until matters have
                            cleared up somewhat down there.11
                  
                    
            
            In February 1935, once a military decision in Paraguay's favor seemed likely, Roosevelt
                    finally authorized Nicholson's transfer to Caracas, Venezuela. Described by McCulloch as
                    the "
                        Paris
                     of South America," the new post proved to be a delightful contrast to
                    Asuncion, and its relative nearness to the 
                        United States
                     kept Nicholson more in touch with domestic affairs and happily allowed for more
                    frequent meetings with travelers from home. Yet Nicholson found Caracas's living
                    expenses-reputedly the highest in the continent-"altitudinous," and he struggled
                    to make ends meet while fulfilling both the social and official duties of his position. The most
                    burdensome requirement involved hosting endless parties-"feedings and
                    cocktailings," as he termed it-usually at the minister's personal expense.12
            
            Again, Nicholson represented his country well and befriended Venezuelan leaders, including the aged
                    dictator, General Juan Vicente Gomez, the unmarried but proud father of perhaps one hundred
                    children, most of whom carried the Gomez name and in time held high offices in the government.
                    Gomez's death in December 1935 prevented Nicholson's planned return home for
                    Christmas because the nearly 70-year-old diplomat stayed on and, while dressed in formal evening
                    wear, marched "those three awful miles" in the funeral procession.13
            
            In 1938, Nicholson's diplomatic life underwent an abrupt change. Without warning, President
                    Roosevelt ordered Nicholson's immediate transfer from Venezuela to Nicaragua, in effect
                    demoting him to a much less desirable post. Not only was Nicaragua officially labeled as a
                    "hardship" post-which meant, among other things, that embassy personnel could
                    vacation outside, rather than within, the country-but the accommodations 
                  
                     11 McCulloch to Nicholson, December 26, 1934, McCulloch Collection.
                  
                     12 McCulloch to Nicholson, May 9, July 31, 1935, Nicholson to
                            McCulloch, July 20, December 3, 1935, McCulloch Collection. For an overview of life in
                            Venezuela about the time of Nicholson's residence there, see John Gunther, Inside Latin America (
                                New York
                            , 1941), 176-86; for analysis of U.S.-Venezuelan relations see Lars Schoultz,
                                Beneath the 
                                    United States
                                : A History of U.S. Policy Toward Latin America (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1998).
                  
                     13 Nicholson to McCulloch, January 28, 1936, McCulloch
                        Collection.
               
                     for the diplomatic staff were substandard. Nicholson rarely
                    complained about his accommodations, but in his initial report to McCulloch he described the new
                    legation building (which replaced the former house destroyed by an earthquake six years earlier) as
                    "full of leaks, to say nothing of the ceiling in the master's bedroom which may
                    fall according to Newton's law without waiting for an earthquake." He then added
                    that it was "sad that our government hasn't provided a decent house for its
                    representative." Reporter Ernie Pyle, visiting Nicaragua in 1940, echoed the observation,
                    noting that a "strong tropical wind whips through the [ambassador's] house
                    continually. There are no glass windows, and the doors don't fit." Pyle also
                    described the primitive conditions in the capital city of Managua: one
                    "sky-scraper"-a four-story office building-featuring the city's only
                    elevator, public transportation by horse-drawn carriages, an unreliable water supply, and a
                    telephone service that was "100 per cent mystic."14
            
            Neither state department files, personal correspondence, nor the press yield any reason for
                    Nicholson's transfer to Nicaragua. Family tradition, apparently based on information
                    personally delivered by a state department official behind closed doors to Nicholson's
                    children, holds that Mrs. Nicholson's "flagrant indiscretions" with some 
                        United States
                     naval officers prompted the change. Nicholson, blithely unaware of these developments,
                    believed simply that "politics" were to blame. In his place, the Venezuelan
                    appointment went to a friend of James A. Farley, Roosevelt's political confidant, campaign
                    manager, and the postmaster general.15 Nicholson accepted the change and
                    remained loyal and supportive of his wife throughout.16
            
            
               
                  14 Nicholson to McCulloch, June 15, 1938, McCulloch Collection; Ernie
                        Pyle, "Hoosier Vagabond," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Times, February 24, 26, 1940.
               
                  15 The new appointee was Antonio C. Gonzalez, a native New Yorker, who,
                        like Nicholson, had entered the foreign service in 1933, being posted first in Panama and then 
                            Ecuador
                        . The early arrival of Gonzalez's baggage in Caracas was
                        Nicholson's first indication that he was to be replaced.
               
                  16 The family, however, continues to hold an extremely low opinion of
                        Dorothy Lannon. When asked where the second Mrs. Nicholson had come from, Nicholson's
                        daughter-in-law replied bitterly "from under a rock." Roberta West Nicholson,
                        interviews by Handfield. The fullest account of Nicholson's demotion, based on
                        interviews with family members, can be found in the unpublished manuscript by Allegra Stewart,
                        "Meredith Nicholson Revisited" (Special Collections Department, Irwin Library, 
                            Butler
                         University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ).
            
            
            In Nicaragua, Nicholson again made the best of his new situation. He arrived just prior to the
                    official installation of President Anastasio Somoza, a man of ability and courage as well as a
                    ruthless dictator who had seized power the previous year (1937). Nicholson got along well with the
                    likable rogue, who spoke fluent English and shared with Nicholson a deep admiration for Franklin D.
                    Roosevelt. Nicholson worked to further good relations with the Nicaraguan government and people and
                    helped in making Nicaragua a strong ally of the 
                        United States
                    , a basic policy of the U.S. in its dealings with all five Central American nations.17
            
            Still the astute commentator, Nicholson made some of his most significant observations in April 1939,
                    when he wrote at length about President Somoza. Although Nicholson had quickly established and
                    maintained good personal relations with the self-installed dictator, his description of Somoza was
                    penetrating and nuanced. Nicholson cautioned 
                        Washington
                     not to assume that the recent extension of Somoza's presidency by the
                    constituent assembly represented "public confidence" or a "sincere
                    admiration on the part of the great body of the people." Instead, "the failure of
                    any real opposition" to him was attributable to "suppression" and
                    intimidation "by the Guardia" (national guard). Nicholson called Somoza's
                    strong-arm methods "Hitleresque," compared his greed and cruelty to that of former
                    Venezuelan dictator Gomez, and detailed corruption and dishonesty that extended even to
                    Somoza's dealings with the American legation. Personally, however, Nicholson noted that
                    Somoza was "unfailingly affable, ingratiating, and persuasive." Overall, while
                    Nicholson considered Somoza untrustworthy and insincere, he appreciated the man's
                    consistent pro-American stance; the dictator's personal shortcomings did nothing to derail
                    the administration's policy of friendship with all governments south of the border.18
            
            Two highlights of Nicholson's difficult years in Nicaragua deserve mention. Although
                    bureaucratic duties prevented Nicholson from going along, the Nicaraguan president made an official
                    visit in May 1939 to the 
                  
                     17 Walter F. LaFeber, Inevitable Revolutions: The 
                                    United States
                                 in Central America, 2d ed. (
                                New York
                            , 1993).
                  
                     18 Nicholson to Secretary of State Cordell Hull, April 11, 1939, as
                            quoted in Paul Coe Clark, Jr., The 
                                    United States
                                 and Somoza, 1933-1956: A Revisionist Look (
                                Westport
                            , Conn., 1992), 56-57. Clark's account relies heavily on
                            Nicholson's observations of Somoza.
               
                    
                    
                        United States
                    , where he had been educated. Roosevelt welcomed him, approved a $2.1 million
                    line of credit for infrastructure work in Nicaragua, and then joined the Somoza party the next day
                    on their visit to 
                        Mount Vernon
                    . Somoza also addressed both houses of Congress and professed his loyalty to the 
                        United States
                     and to democratic values. Then, as a token of his affection for the American minister,
                    Somoza arranged for his 
                        California
                    -bound entourage to stop in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . There, as a surprise, he was reunited with some American marines who had helped to
                    train Nicaraguan soldiers under his command. He visited the Indiana State House, the War Memorial,
                    and, finally, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Motor Speedway, where preparations for the 500-mile race were underway. The
                    irrepressible Nicaraguan president, reportedly once a used-car salesman in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , jumped into the pace car-a Buick-and drove it and three uneasy passengers (including
                    Governor M. Clifford Townsend and three-time race winner Louie Meyer) rapidly around the track,
                    squealing the tires loudly as he returned to the pits.19
            
            Ernie Pyle's 1940 visit to Managua marked a second highlight. Pyle, then in his days as a
                    "vagabond reporter," toured Central America shortly after war had broken out in
                    Europe. He devoted five columns to Nicaragua, including one describing his dinner with fellow
                    Hoosier Nicholson and a few others. Pyle greatly admired the famed novelist, and he enjoyed the
                    camaraderie, good humor, and hospitality of the American minister. He also expressed concern about
                    Nicholson's well-being, suggesting that the diplomat owed his country nothing more and
                    could honorably come home and rest on his laurels. Perhaps these comments were a factor in
                    Nicholson's decision to return home the next year.20
            
            In summary, Nicholson's diplomatic career imitated his writing career in its string of
                    unlikely successes. A high school dropout in his freshman year, he had unexpectedly and improbably
                    become a best-selling novelist. Likewise, without any training and without ever holding an elected
                    or appointed public office higher than a seat on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     City Council, he became a surprisingly effective and successful representative 
                  
                     19 The account of Somoza's visit to 
                                Indianapolis
                             can best be followed in the city's newspapers. See especially the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 25, 1939. For a full account of the 
                                Washington
                             portion of the trip see Clark, The 
                                    United States
                                 and Somoza, 69-71.
                  
                     20 Pyle, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, February 26, 1940.
               
                     of the American people in three Latin American countries.
                    Indeed, one Nicaraguan journalist suggested that his country should establish and then bestow a
                    special Ruben Dario Medal, named in honor of the country's leading poet and novelist, upon
                    Meredith Nicholson in recognition of his distinguished diplomatic service.21
                    Unexpectedly sent to a remote, uncomfortable legation in Paraguay, Nicholson found himself in a
                    position that had become perhaps the most sensitive on the continent. As Secretary of State Cordell
                    Hull suggests in his memoirs, the Chaco War occupied a primary place of concern in the
                    administration's Latin America policy. This conflict, unusually bitter and bloody, also
                    dominated the proceedings at high-level Pan-American conferences in Montevideo in 1933 and Buenos
                    Aires in 1935, the latter of which both Hull and Roosevelt (briefly) attended.22
            
            In broad perspective, Nicholson appeared on the scene precisely at the moment of a "historic
                    shift" in American foreign policy. Although the U.S.'s "Good
                    Neighbor" policy had been anticipated by President Herbert Hoover (who coined the phrase),
                    his was a policy mainly of non-intervention and of American troop withdrawal; Roosevelt offered
                    friendship and trade in addition to pledging not to interfere in the internal affairs of
                    America's sister states.23
            
            Nicholson's role in implementing the new policy in all three of his postings caught the
                    attention of his superiors. "Secretary Hull has often praised my work," Nicholson
                    told his American confidant in September 1934, but he saw the irony in the situation too. By doing
                    good work in Paraguay, which he later termed "the most undesirable place" in all
                    of South America, he jeopardized his chances for a transfer to a more desirable post.24
            
            Back in the 
                        United States
                    , Nicholson's final years included both small triumphs and tragedies. When he
                    and the still new (to former 
                        Indianapolis
                     friends) Mrs. Nicholson failed to find full acceptance in the 
                  
                     21 Gabry Rivas, "If There Existed An Order of Ruben
                            Dario," La Nueva Prenza, as translated and published in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, March 4, 1941.
                  
                     22 Cordell Hull, The Memoirs of Cordell Hull, 2 vols. (
                                New York
                            , 1948), esp. chapters 23-25 in the first volume.
                  
                     23 Max Paul Friedman, Nazis and Good Neighbors: The 
                                    United States
                                 Campaign Against the Germans of Latin America in World War II (
                                New York
                            , 2003), 76-77.
                  
                     24 Nicholson to McCulloch, September 15, October 30, 1934, McCulloch
                            Collection.
               
                     old hometown, the couple moved to a lovely home near both the
                    water-front and the old City Gate in St. Augustine, 
                        Florida
                    . Nicholson continued to follow world developments closely, gave occasional talks to
                    civic and church groups, and enjoyed the companionship of his neighbor and fellow author, Marjorie
                    Kinnan Rawlings. But life in 
                        Florida
                     failed to meet all of the Hoosier's expectations, and the couple returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1943. Soon thereafter, Nicholson began to write a twice-weekly column for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star. These columns, which appeared on Mondays and Thursdays and carried
                    individual titles but ran under the general heading of "Without Prejudice,"
                    continued, with only one brief interruption caused by an illness, from April 1943 into September
                    1944, when they were unceremoniously and inexplicably ended by the newspaper's new
                    publisher, Eugene C. Pulliam.
            On December 24, 1943, the Nicholsons divorced. No explanation for this action has been found, other
                    than Nicholson's statement to the judge that "my wife says she no longer loves
                    me." It appears that Mrs. Nicholson, an unknown number of years (perhaps as many as
                    twenty-eight) younger than her husband, wanted to move on. The former Mrs. Nicholson disappeared
                    from public record and she remains a shadowy figure to this day, for no one has yet been able to
                    discover the basic details of her life.25 Nicholson, now single again, returned
                    to the place he had lived following the death of his first wife, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Athletic Club, and there he spent the final four years of his life.
            His daughter-in-law, the accomplished Roberta West Nicholson, served as the
                    author-diplomat's last chief caregiver, calling on him regularly (often with a favorite
                    delicacy, oyster soup) and keeping him in touch with the outside world.26
                    Nicholson outlived all of his fellow "Big 
                  
                     25 Neither professional genealogists in Fort 
                                Wayne
                             nor librarians and historians in 
                                Marion
                             and 
                                Grant County
                             have been able to establish the place and date of birth or the place and date
                            of death for Dorothy. It is possible that the Dorothy G. Lannon listed in the census returns
                            for 1930 is the lady in question, but doubt remains. This Mrs. Lannon, a stenographer living
                            on the 
                                Indianapolis
                             east side, was born in 1894 in Indiana; her husband, Carl T. Lannon, fifty-one
                            years older and also a native Hoosier, was born in 1843, so she could have been widowed and
                            "available" by 1933. Yet, a newspaper photograph of Mr. and Mrs. Nicholson
                            in the latter 1930s suggests that she could be closer to the age of her husband, but perhaps
                            not. Nevertheless, I am grateful to Mary Ann Bradley and Martin Lake, Indiana Historical
                            Society trustees, for finding the census report and for their interest and assistance in the
                            search.
                  
                     26 Roberta West Nicholson served in the Indiana House, 1935-37 (the
                            only female at the time), and became nationally famous for her "anti-heart
                            balm" bill. She later became an outstanding leader in the area of public health.
                            Laura S. Gaus, "Roberta West Nicholson," in David J.
               
                     Four" authors: Riley had died in 1916, Ade in 1944,
                    and Tarkington in 1946. In early December 1947, Nicholson slipped into a diabetic coma and was
                    rushed to Methodist Hospital, where he remained for a few days. He revived on his birthday, December
                    9, to enjoy a dish of ice cream, but then lapsed again. Ironically, his death, on December 21, 1947,
                    occurred exactly sixteen years after the death of his first wife Eugenie. Perhaps the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times notice said it best: Nicholson was "the last leaf on a famous
                    literary tree that grew in Indiana. It was a sturdy tree, pleasant and shady, watered in the
                    American tradition with its roots deep in the soil of the state. In its day, it was one of the
                    outstanding features of our literary landscape."27 Nicholson's
                    reputation remains primarily that of an Indiana author, not of a late-blooming diplomat.
                    Nevertheless, he proved successful in both endeavors.
            
               Bodenhamer and Robert G. Barrows, eds., The Encyclopedia of 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1994) ,1053.
               
                  27 "Meredith Nicholson," 
                            New York
                        
                        Times, December 22, 1947.
            
         
         
         
            REVIEWS
            
               Steel Shavings Vol. 37: Gary's First Hundred Years A
                        Centennial History of Gary, Indiana, 1906-2006 By James B. Lane ([Gary]: Indiana University
                    Northwest, 2006. Pp. 286. Illustrations, index. $20.00.)
            From its origins as the site of U.S. Steel's behemoth manufacturing complex on the shores of
                    Lake 
                        Michigan
                    , Gary, Indiana, has operated largely as a company town where the dictates of steel
                    production have determined the ebb and flow of daily life, the use of natural resources, and local
                    economic fortunes. Yet the story that emerges from James B. Lane's breezy chronicle of the
                    city's first hundred years is one of human resilience and adaptation to often insufferable
                    conditions. Making liberal use of the oral histories that he has compiled over the years, Lane
                    showcases the ordinary and extraordinary men and women who employed varying doses of ingenuity,
                    pluck, and perseverance to make their hometown livable, just, and worthy of pride. The cast of
                    characters takes in a wide cross-section of Gary's social fabric-including entertainers,
                    athletes, political leaders, clerics, immigrants, entrepreneurs, laborers, activists, and
                    eccentricsand their stories propel the narrative.
            The city's centennial anniversary provided the occasion for this expanded volume of the
                    local history journal, Steel Shavings. Much of the material is a rehash of Lane's earlier
                    book, City of the Century: A History of Gary, Indiana (1978), which has come to be
                    considered the standard account of Gary's history. Nearly thirty years have passed since
                    the publication of Lane's earlier work, however, and so, to cover the gap, Lane has
                    included several new chapters that focus on recent political developments. Moreover, some of the
                    earlier material has been revised, reorganized, and embellished with additional photographs.  A narrated gallery of images on DVD accompanies the volume and
                    is intended as an educational supplement. The photographs of factory interiors are particularly
                    compelling and provide a nice counterpoint to the community orientation of the book.
            Despite the overall upbeat tenor of the book, Lane does not hesitate to take his shots. U. S. Steel
                    frequently draws his ire for its civic negligence. On the other hand, Lane takes a largely
                    sympathetic view of the controversial Richard Hatcher administration. The four-term mayor's
                    difficulties implementing a progressive black power agenda are attributed to national forces beyond
                    his control. The coverage of the Hatcher and post-Hatcher years comprises the strongest as well as
                    the grimmest section of the book. Yet while Lane acknowledges the city's problems with
                    crime, drugs, white flight, and physical dereliction, he ably demonstrates another side to life in
                    Gary, one that has included cultural innovation, athletic accomplishments, some improvement in city
                    services, and even fresh investment.
            
               Gary's First Hundred Years makes it abundantly clear that during its
                    relatively brief life this mid-sized industrial city experienced firsthand the major developments of
                    urban history: the growth of mass-production manufacturing, Progressive education reform, the
                    ascendance of organized labor, the black power movement, and deindustrialization. By putting a human
                    face on all of these subjects, Lane provides an engaging narrative that will appeal to general
                    readers as well as to undergraduates. Unfortunately, the book lacks citations and a bibliography,
                    thereby limiting its utility for scholars. Nonetheless, researchers who wish to further mine
                    Gary's rich yet understudied history will find this volume to be an excellent point of
                    departure.
            ANDREW HURLEY is professor of history at the University of 
                        Missouri
                    -
                        St. Louis
                    .
         
         
            
               Peter Cartwright Legendary Frontier Preacher By Robert Bray (
                        Champaign
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2005. Pp. x, 314. Illustrations, notes, index. $35.00.)
            A definitive biography of Peter Cartwright has long been needed. Often used as an example and cited
                    as a source, the man known not only as the most famous frontier circuit rider but also as one of the
                    leading Methodists in early American history clearly deserves more direct scholarly attention. In
                    this volume, literature professor Robert Bray delves deep into Cartwright's place in
                    American religion, politics, and literature.
            
            Bray seems most interested in the preacher's long relationship with Abraham Lincoln. Other
                    writers have noted Cartwright's political, theological, and social rivalry with Lincoln,
                    but Bray fully explores these conflicts in a way that makes them more coherent than an occasional
                    reference. The two giants of frontier 
                        Illinois
                     squared off time and again in public battles over religion and politics, but they
                    agreed on some issues-including slavery-and they shared a similar fame as
                    "self-made" men. Cartwright, like Stephen Douglas, shaped Lincoln's
                    career to the extent that he served as a worthy political and philosophical foe.
            But Cartwright was far more than just a foil for Abraham Lincoln. Following his conversion to
                    Christianity during the Great Revival on the frontier, Cartwright served as a Methodist circuit
                    rider. Known as the "
                        Kentucky
                     Boy," his preaching became the stuff of legend and his own Autobiography (1856) helped preserve his almost mythical place in American religious
                    history. Always ready to confront sinners in hopes of converting them, he also quickly took up arms
                    against rival denominations and those whom he considered heretics. On the frontier of
                            
                  Kentucky, Ohio
               , and 
                        Illinois
                    , Calvinists and Mormons faced Cartwright's wrath just as often as did
                    drunkards and blasphemers.
            One disappointing feature of the book derives from the lack of available sources on
                    Cartwright's frontier preaching. Bray rightly treats the Autobiography
                    with skepticism, since it was written from the perspective of many decades later. But there is
                    little else that details the stories of his adventures as a circuit rider. Bray treats the subject
                    as well as it probably can be, but many readers will wish for more.
            Written records do allow the author to analyze more fully Cartwright's work in church
                    politics. Involved in the government of the Methodist Episcopal Church at the local, regional, and
                    national levels, the famous circuit rider served as a lightning rod on many issues. His brash
                    personality and eccentric behavior sometimes caused him embarrassment and the Methodist conference
                    charged him with improper conduct on several occasions. Cartwright's political ambition
                    also created controversy; his practice of campaigning for office while performing his ecclesiastical
                    duties raised important questions about where the line should be drawn between civic and churchly
                    matters.
            Considered a moderate on the issue of slavery, Cartwright clearly opposed the peculiar institution.
                    He considered owning slaves a sin and hoped to eliminate the immoral practice through conversion and
                    church discipline. But he also believed that abolitionists posed as great a threat to church unity
                    as did the pro-slavery advocates. In the end, his effort to preserve an anti-slavery Methodist union
                    proved impossible and, despite  his best efforts at saving the
                    national church, the Methodists split in 1844.
            This book is well written and well researched. Bray is generally successful in his attempt to place
                    Cartwright in context, although some historians will be disappointed to find expected titles missing
                    from the endnotes. Still, many of the standard texts are referenced and most readers will appreciate
                    the author's engaging style. While some questions remain, Bray goes behind the legend to
                    show us something of the man who lived the life and helped create the myth.
            A. JAMES FULLER is associate professor of history at the University of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and has published several books, including co-editing the forthcoming America, War and Power: Defining the State, 1775-2005.
         
         
            
               The Black Laws Race and the Legal Process in Early 
                            Ohio
                        
                By Stephen Middleton (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 2006. Pp. xi, 363. Notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $26.95.)
            Stephen Middleton's The Black Laws: Race and the Legal Process in Early 
                            Ohio
                        
                impressively surveys all legal matters affecting African Americans in 
                        Ohio
                     from the territorial stage through the 1880s, although most of the emphasis is on the
                    period before the Civil War. Middleton goes well beyond the title's "Black
                    Laws"-those laws that circumscribed African Americans' legal rights-to place clear
                    focus as well on the issue of slavery in 
                        Ohio
                     and most notably the legal process governing fugitive slaves in the state.
            Middleton argues that "race-specific laws could not long endure in a country that made
                    freedom and equality the birthright of its people" (p. 4). In the territorial and early
                    statehood periods, the question of whether slavery would be permitted proved the most pressing legal
                    issue. Although some powerful figures supported opening the territory and new state to slavery, the
                    political mass, including many ordinary folks who had immigrated from the South, opposed slavery.
                    But as Middleton makes clear, opposition to slavery was not the same thing as support for African
                    American civil rights, and the 
                        Ohio
                     constitution, while prohibiting slavery, placed several restrictions upon African
                    American residents, including denial of the right to vote. Moreover, by not securing certain rights,
                    the new constitution permitted the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature to pass a number of "Black Laws" over the next few
                    decades-laws that, for example, limited black testimony against whites and attempted to restrict
                    African American immigration to the  state by forcing such
                    residents to register and post bond.
            However onerous, these laws also led to unintended benefits for African Americans in 
                        Ohio
                    . Middleton relates how judges' devotion to justice led them to interpret
                    narrowly the black testimony laws. The registration laws served as a basis for 
                        Ohio
                    's claim that their courts had a legal say in fugitive slave cases, thus
                    extending some state protection from man-stealing, by far the gravest threat to African Americans.
                    The state's anti-slavery cause increasingly took on an African American civil rights tone
                    as well, and although their numbers were small, Free-Soilers traded their support of Democratic
                    control of the legislature in exchange for the repeal of a number of the black laws, including those
                    involving immigration, testimony, and education. The restriction on suffrage would be lifted by the
                    fifteenth amendment, and the remaining black laws by an 1887 repeal effort led by African American
                    legislators.
            While Middleton's book seems a solid recounting of the legal process in 
                        Ohio
                    , this reader's confidence was disturbed by a number of anachronisms in the
                    text: among them, referring to National Road communities as a political base for the black laws of
                    1807, when the National Road was not built until the mid-1820s; noting the influence of Charles G.
                    Finney on 
                        Ohio
                     abolitionism, without noting his presence at Oberlin subsequent to 1837; labeling David
                    Walker's Appeal a newspaper and not a pamphlet; and using W. E. B.
                    DuBois's 1903 phrase "talented tenth" to characterize 
                        Ohio
                     African American leaders' hopes for public education.
            For Hoosier readers looking for hints about race relations in Indiana, the volume may be of limited
                    use. Indiana may well have seen a hardening of racial restrictions on African Americans over the
                    course of the antebellum period, culminating in the exclusion clause of the 1851 Constitution.
                    Indiana's experience, therefore, calls into question Middleton's larger thesis
                    that race-specific laws could not stand in a land of liberty and equality. Middleton's work
                    invites scholars of Indiana to replicate his indepth research into the enforcement of the
                    increasingly stricter formal laws in the state.
            RICHARD NATION is associate professor of history at Eastern 
                        Michigan
                     University and author of At Home in the Hoosier Hills: Agriculture,
                        Politics, and Religion in Southern Indiana, 1810-1870 (2005) and "Violence and the
                    Rights of African Americans in Civil War-Era Indiana: The Case of James Hays," Indiana Magazine of History, 100 (September 2004). He is coediting, with Stephen Towne,
                        Indiana's War: The Civil War in Documents (forthcoming in
                2008).
         
         
         
            
               Bound for Canaan The Underground Railroad and the War for the Soul of America By
                    Fergus M. Bordewich (
                        New York
                    : HarperCollins, 2005. Pp. xv, 540. index. $27.95.)
            The Underground Railroad operated on the cutting edge of the movement to abolish slavery in the 
                        United States
                     and, therefore, provides an especially powerful lens through which to view the growing
                    division between North and South that ultimately produced an emancipatory civil war.
                    Bordewich's sprawling narrative seeks not so much to prove this argument as to embody it.
                    The author densely packs Bound for Canaan with vivid stories and biographical
                    vignettes illustrating how a series of improvised escape routes across the Mason-Dixon line and the
                        Ohio River developed into a dependable yet secretive transportation
                    network. An increasing level of organization and militancy characterized the funneling of southern
                    fugitives northward between 1800 and 1860. But certain constants render problematic the term
                    "Underground Railroad," with its implications of corporate hierarchy and
                    capital-intensive investment. Transporting fugitives depended on flexibility, opacity, and the
                    individual initiative of slaves seeking to permanently cast off their bondage and to rescue family
                    members. The movement relied on free blacks-including former slaves-to guide, conceal, and provide
                    information to fugitives seeking to elude recapture by masters, slave-catchers, and law enforcement
                    officials often in hot pursuit. The initial core of white participants in the underground was drawn
                    from the 
                        Quaker
                     community, but gradually expanded to include evangelically-minded abolitionists,
                    especially after 1830. For the thousands of blacks and whites who risked their personal safety to
                    violate the law of the land, often on behalf of complete strangers, participation in the underground
                    put revulsion toward slavery into action.
            The geography of the Underground Railroad indicates some of its other salient features. With dramatic
                    exceptions, only slaves from the Upper South had access to the network of safe-houses, guides, and
                    pathways that channeled them to freedom. 
                        Canada
                     was the "Canaan" for a significant proportion of fugitives. There,
                    people such as Marylander Josiah Henson, Kentuckian Henry Bibb, and Pennsylvanian Mary Ann Shadd
                    attempted to build communities to deliver on the promise of American life beyond the reach of laws
                    that made freedom in the northern U.S. a tenuous prospect. Whatever their ultimate destination, many
                    fugitives relied on the assistance of Hoosiers in order to ensure the success of their freedom
                    journeys. Bordewich prominently features the impressive underground activities of Levi Coffin, the
                    white 
                        North Carolina
                    -raised 
                        Quaker
                    
                     who lived for two decades in 
                        Newport
                    , Indiana, and George DeBaptiste, a black 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, barber who took flight for 
                        Detroit
                     after eight years of assisting slaves escaping across the Ohio
                    River.
            The covert exodus of thousands of slaves possesses inherent drama, and the book provides numerous
                    compelling examples of their successful escapes as well as episodes of physical confrontation and
                    personal tragedy. Painting details of sectional crises and antislavery politics on a broad canvas
                    means that context sometimes threatens to overwhelm the core subject of the study.
                    Bordewich's effort to describe the underground's resistance as the fulcrum of a
                    victorious antislavery movement leads at times to rhetorical over-reach. Readers seeking a more
                    focused, intensive appraisal of the underground movement's myriad participants and the
                    relative prevalence of particular methods and routes of escape may not be entirely satisfied.
                    Nonetheless, Bordewich's ambitious narration vividly presents the combination of moral
                    fervor, opportunity, and audacious bravery that offered individuals and the nation alternatives to
                    slavery and racism. While the Underground Railroad could hardly redeem "the soul of
                    America," its role in liberating an estimated 100,000 people from slavery, sometimes one
                    person at a time, was a tangible accomplishment in a society that, especially for African Americans,
                    exhibited far too few attributes of a Promised Land.
            DAVID GELLMAN is associate professor of history at DePauw University and author of Emancipating 
                            New York
                        : The Politics of Slavery and Freedom, 1777-1827 (2006).
         
         
            
               On Jordan's Banks Emancipation and Its Aftermath in the Ohio
                        River Valley By Darrel E. Bigham (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 2005. Pp. x, 428. Maps, appendix, notes, index. $45.00.)
            With On 
                            Jordan
                        's Banks, Darrel E. Bigham, for many years a productive scholar of
                    southern Indiana history, broadens his geographical scope to focus upon the African American
                    experience in the Ohio River valley during the last half of the nineteenth
                    century. In this heavily footnoted volume, Bigham brings together an impressive array of secondary
                    sources and supplements these with original research into census materials, tax records, and other
                    primary documents. The work makes a valuable contribution to the scholarly record and represents a
                    worthy addition to the Ohio River Valley Series published by the University
                    Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    .  It is not, however, an easy book to read.
            The broad story of race relations in America following emancipation and Reconstruction is well known.
                    Still, the Ohio River valley provides a convenient region in which to view the
                    small variations in race relations between the once slaveholding South-represented here by 
                        Kentucky
                    , on the river's south bank-and the strongly racist free states on the north
                    bank. For the most part, as Bigham shows, blacks in the 
                        Ohio
                     valley lived separate from whites, whether by law, by custom, by power, or by fear.
                    With this separateness-on both sides of the river-came inequality of resources and opportunity.
                    Black men and women in the valley responded as they did elsewhere-by protesting on occasion, by
                    accommodating as a rule, and by forming separate institutions to undergird their pursuit of human
                    survival and advancement as a free people.
            Following emancipation and the end of the Civil War, former slaves moved closer to the river,
                    sometimes stopping in the larger cities and towns of 
                        Kentucky
                    , such as 
                        Louisville
                    , and more frequently seeking the northbank urban centers of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , New 
                        Albany
                    , or 
                        Evansville
                    . Clearly most desired to escape the place of their recent enslavement, seeking jobs
                    first in order to provide a means of supporting themselves, but also chasing the less tangible
                    benefits of freedom. Whether in a small 
                        Kentucky
                     town or a larger city like 
                        Cincinnati
                     with a past seasoned by support for the Underground Railroad, blacks quickly discovered
                    the insecurity of their "freedom": housing in short supply, jobs limited by racial
                    restriction, violence both random and with purpose, voting and civil rights more a dream than a
                    reality. While the story is not new, Bigham supports it with extensive documentation, often going
                    county-by-county up one side of the river and then down the other.
            Not simply the objects of historical forces and white decision makers, African Americans created
                    separate settlements when faced with hostility in urban centers, established some remarkably
                    sophisticated social and educational institutions, and sometimes even made the difference in
                    political decisions when whites were divided. Bigham fills his pages with tidbits of information and
                    with the names of otherwise anonymous people, but the individuals in this volume never really come
                    alive as real people-they are buried in the details.
            Unless truly interested in all of the historical examples, the reader might profitably review the
                    summaries that begin and end each chapter, or even skip to the epilogue, which gives a strong
                    analytical summary of the larger picture of black experience in the Ohio River
                    valley and projects the impact of this experience well into the twentieth century.
            LESTER C. LAMON is the author of several books and articles on African American history and
                    professor emeritus at Indiana University 
                        South Bend
                    .
         
         
         
            
               John Caspar Wild Painter and Printmaker of Nineteenth-Century Urban America By
                    John W. Reps (
                        St. Louis
                    : 
                        Missouri
                     Historical Society Press, distributed by University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 2006. Pp. xx. 164. Illustrations, catalog raisonne, bibliography, notes, index.
                    $59.95.)
            To open the wide pages of John W. Reps's John Caspar Wild: Painter and
                        Printmaker of Nineteenth-Century Urban America is to become immersed in the trials and
                    tribulations of an artist's survival in the earlynineteenth century. Swiss-born John Caspar
                    Wild (1804-1846), who arrived in America in 1832 to seek his fortune using his considerable talents
                    as painter, lithographer, and print colorist, spent fourteen years moving from one emerging frontier
                    metropolis to another.
            The chronological narrative, complete with meticulously researched documentation and flawless color
                    and monochromatic reproductions, follows Wild's industrious output from his various
                    residencies in 
                  Philadelphia, Cincinnati, St. Louis
               , and
                    the Davenport, 
                        Iowa
                    , region. A pragmatist, Wild favored the massproducible medium of lithographic prints
                    for the images of recognizable buildings and panoramic scenes that he marketed to residents of the
                    cities of the expanding West.
            Wild's skillfully created lithographic stones, used to publish serial subscriptions and
                    prints, were occasionally acquired by others and thereafter easily used with no credit given to the
                    original artist. Plagiarism haunted Wild during and after his life, most brazenly in the case of a
                    painting donated in 1901 to the 
                        Missouri
                     Historical Society, in which a large copy in oils of Wild's 1840 lithograph
                    showing a lake area in 
                        St. Louis
                     was claimed to have been painted by donor Henry Lewis.
            The perils of derivative prints only add to the baffling reasons for Wild's historical
                    obscurity. That Reps found any information at all is due to Wild's most important
                    chronicler in the early 1950s, John E McDermott, a professor of English at 
                        Washington
                     University and tireless historian of the city's early years. McDermott
                    "recognized the need to study the artistic culture of the region as a means of both
                    regional preservation and national promotion" (p. xvii), according to Andrew J. Walker,
                    author of the book's perceptive introduction. Indeed, Wild's re-exposure after
                    World War II resulted from the use of his images by historic preservationists fighting urban
                    renewal.
            Walker, the 
                        St. Louis
                     Art Museum's Curator of American Art, evaluates Wild's place in the
                    larger art world by comparing his work to that of Fitz Hugh Lane, a painter of preCivil War New 
                        England
                     harbor views. The age-old predicament of minimal patronage and limited exhibition
                    opportunities away from the East Coast exacerbated Wild's continual struggle for sustenance
                    and acclaim.  Indiana's better known frontier artists,
                    George Winter (1809-1876) and Wild's fellow countryman Karl Bodmer (1809-1893), may have
                    been more popular for their documentations of disappearing Indian tribes.
            Wild, like many serious artists, actually wanted to become known for his easel paintings, which are
                    compelling, if a bit stiff, with fine color sense and faultless perspective. In order to make ends
                    meet, the artist accepted work coloring others' engravings and lithographs. He also
                    ‘demonstrated significant talent in his few efforts at portrait painting, but did not
                    pursue this more lucrative career. His moves from city to city appear to have been prompted by his
                    quest for new locations with no competing images of local buildings and panoramas.
            
               John Caspar Wild: Painter and Printmaker of Nineteenth Century Urban America is an
                    appealing read for historians and art enthusiasts alike. The oversized book, conducive to the
                    display of rarely seen lithographs and paintings, is visually scrumptious. Ornate period script
                    announces each chapter, further introduced in bold captions to draw the reader into the text.
                    High-grade pages of interspersed grays, creme, and white enhance the images and offer subtle
                    variety.
            Reps has left no stone unturned in his research, tying in fascinating tidbits about subjects as
                    diverse as 1833 
                        Philadelphia
                     boat clubs and early interpretations of Monk's Mound near Cahokia, 
                        Illinois
                    . Included in the publication is an exhaustive catalogue raisonne.
            RAHEL BERENSON PERRY is the fine arts curator for the Indiana State Museum. She wrote the
                    introductory essay to The Artists of 
                            Brown County
                        
                by Lyn Letsinger-Miller (1994) and Painting Indiana II: The
                        Changing Face of Agriculture (2006) and authored Children from the Hills: The
                        Life and Work of Ada Walter Shulz (2001).
         
         
            
               On the Farm Front The Women's Land Army in World War II By Stephanie A.
                    Carpenter (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 2003. Pp. viii, 214. Illustrations, appendix, tables, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $40.00.)
            Stephanie A. Carpenter succeeds admirably in her stated purpose with On the Farm
                    Front. She rightly perceives an oversight in writing of previous agricultural historians who
                    organized their examinations of farm work according to separate spheres, confining women to
                    "the house, garden, and chicken coop" (p. 3). Historians who discuss working women
                    during World War II have focused on industry rather than agriculture.  Women working in agriculture during the war, at least those working
                    under the auspices of the federal Women's Land Army now have a historian who fills the gap
                    and makes the WLA salient. Carpenter interprets their experience "in the context of
                    regional differences and with regard to class, gender, and race" (p. 5). She concludes by
                    arguing that "World War II increased the number of women in farming, as in the national
                    workforce as a whole" (p. 156).
            The WLA organized in the spring of 1943 under the leadership of extension career woman Florence L.
                    Hall. Its workers, recruited through state extension organizations, were supposed to wear blue
                    uniforms-overalls, shirt, jacket, and cap. Most, however, disdained the denim and dressed as they
                    pleased.
            Although Carpenter's attention to a neglected, vital movement is laudable, there are some
                    problems with her interpretations of the biases against the women working in the fields. She argues
                    that "farmers were prejudiced against bringing nonfarm women on farms" (p. 73);
                    she summarizes the literature against the WLA to the effect that it "pitted the morality
                    and innocence of farm families against the perceived immorality and worldliness of WLA
                    participants" (p. 63). Midwestern farmers in particular, although Indiana is not
                    specifically examined, "demonstrated a bias toward the WLA" (p. 120). Worse,
                    Southern farmers refused the help of middle-class white women because they thought only black women
                    and poor white women should work in the fields.
            However, it appears that Carpenter has been subtly captured by her sources-mainly publications and
                    papers of extension workers. By the 1940s, extension workers had developed a tradition of denouncing
                    backwardness among farmers and attributing it to prejudice. Judging by the extension literature
                    produced after the war, all of the WLA workers were delighted with their farming experiences and the
                    backward farmers in the Midwest and South had become a little more enlightened.
            A more critical reading of sources would go deeper than this; closer consideration of local
                    circumstances would provide alternate explanations. If the farmers of 
                        Nebraska
                    , as Carpenter says, preferred their Mexican workers, was this because they were biased
                    against the WLA women or because they were really pleased with the work ethic, family values, and
                    ready availability of the workers they had? As for the idea that farmers were especially suspicious
                    of the morality of young city women, what about farmers’ opinions of the morals of their
                    male help? Did farm folk ever argue that hired hands were a morally uplifting
                    influence in their households?
            Oral interviewing of WLA veterans and the farmers who employed them might have redressed the bias of
                    the sources. Though oral history sources must also be ready critically,  here is a case where they could only have enriched the story.
            THOMAS D. ISERN professor of history at 
                        North Dakota
                     State University.
         
         
            
               Never Come to Peace Again Pontiac's Uprising and the Fate of the British
                        Empire in North America By David Dixon (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 2005. Pp. xvii, 353. Map, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $34.95.)
            Writing that it is "time to reexamine Pontiac's Uprising," David Dixon has
                    penned what amounts to one book and one suggestive essay (p. xi). He offers a vivid narrative of the
                    battles and maneuvers of Indian and British forces in the conflict known popularly as
                    Pontiac's War, but then argues, unconvincingly that the impact of the war on western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     contributed in a substantial way to the coming of the American Revolution a decade
                    later.
            This book joins Gregory Evans Dowd's War Under Heaven (2002) and William
                    R. Nester's Haughty Conquerors (2000) in a new wave of scholarly
                    attention to Pontiac's War. Where Dowd placed primary cause for the war on the preachings
                    of the 
                        Delaware
                     prophet Neolin and on the pan-Indian spiritual revitalization movement that erupted
                    throughout the Great Lakes and Ohio valley at the end of the Seven
                    Years' War, and where Nester assigned principal blame to the miserly and arrogant actions
                    and attitude of British commander Sir Jeffrey Amherst, Dixon combines these causes with colonial
                    demand for Indian land to explain the "savage war to expel the whites from their
                    land" (p. 183). Whether the author means that the war was fought in a savage manner or that
                    "savages" started the war is not always clear. Though Dixon depicts the incredibly
                    brutal actions committed by all sides in the war, he spills more ink on Indian depredations than on
                    European atrocities; further, he does so without placing such actions in cultural context. The book
                    lacks an ethnohistorical focus that could better explain Indian motivations and the author
                    deliberately eschews "masterful analysis" for "chronology and
                    narrative" (p. 283).
            The main strength of Dixon's book lies in its dramatic and thorough narrative of events and
                    personalities involved in the war. Dixon is a good storyteller and his depictions of the sieges at
                    Fort 
                        Detroit
                     and Fort Pitt, the Battle at Bushy Run, and of persons such as Henry Bouquet make for
                    compelling reading. Dixon immersed himself in the British primary literature and reproduces in an
                    appendix two letters from Bouquet to Amherst  written during the
                    midst of the Battle at Bushy Run. Bouquet's forces, on their way to relieve Fort Pitt in
                    August 1763, were ambushed by Indians in overwhelming numbers yet managed to outmaneuver them and
                    get most of the military unit to Fort Pitt. The Swiss officer Bouquet and the Scottish Highland
                    troops under his command became folk heroes to settlers in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     for their daring and fierce counterattack. The military history focus of most of
                    Dixon's book is its strong point, yet this approach begs for a more nuanced discussion of
                    causes and impacts.
            Though Dixon promises "to offer readers new insight into the causes and important
                    consequences" of Pontiac's War, seven of the eight chapters cover the military
                    actions of the 1758-1765 period, with only the remaining eighth chapter cursorily devoted to the
                    impact of the war on later times and peoples (p. xi). That last chapter is interpretatively the
                    weakest, as Dixon cherry-picks events from 1765 to 1776 that involved persons from western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in an attempt to demonstrate a direct connection between the Paxton Boys and other
                    Indian-hating terrorist groups and the call for independence from Britain. The supposed connection
                    between the Paxton Boys and calls for independence requires more analysis than is offered here; the
                    author has not proven precisely what role they and other backcountry settlers played in toppling
                    British imperial power. The fact that those settlers remained just as disillusioned with the new
                    government of the 
                        United States
                     under the Articles of Confederation suggests at the least that they did not accurately
                    foresee the impact of their actions.
            GREG O'BRIEN is associate professor of history at the University of Southern 
                        Mississippi
                     and the author of Choctaws in a Revolutionary Age, 1750-1830
                (2002).
         
         
            
               Demanding the Cherokee Nation Indian Autonomy and American Culture, 1830-1900 By
                    Andrew Denson (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 2004. Pp. xi, 327. Notes, bibliography, index. $55.00.)
            Andrew Denson's contribution to the University of 
                        Nebraska
                    's series on Indians of the Southeast joins a growing and timely debate about
                    Indian sovereignty. Focusing on the Cherokees, one of the most acculturated of the Five Tribes in
                    the nineteenth century, Denson's text richly explores resources only marginally used by
                    previous historians. Rather than depending upon Bureau of Indian Affairs materials, the book
                    considers 
                    
                        United States
                     House and Senate memorials, documents, and speeches prepared by the Cherokee leadership
                    as examples of both meaningful resistance to American Indian policy and engagement of broader
                    conceptions of Indian nationhood. Denson, whose approach to the sources draws on the literary
                    criticism of Arnold Krupat and Homi K. Bhabha's theories of "cultural
                    ambivalence," maintains that the Cherokees responded to changes in American life by arguing
                    that the preservation of Indian nations, rather than their dissolution, would be the most effective
                    means to progress.
            The removal of the Cherokees from their homelands to Indian Territory provided them with an education
                    in negotiating the political terrain of American politics, and established the outline for
                    nineteenth-century arguments over the "Indian Question." At every major turning
                    point in the dialogue, from removal to Civil War to the allotment process, the Cherokees built upon
                    a platform of ideas that offered an alternative to consistent either/or demands from the U. S.
                    government. Their arguments included: the existence of a distinct community pre-dating European
                    intrusion, the success of an early treaty partnership with the government, the failure of the
                    government to fulfill its obligations, the suffering attendant to Cherokee loyalty and failed
                    government protection, the successful example of Cherokee assimilation, Cherokee leadership in
                    Indian Territory over Plains Indian cultures, and the virtue of Indian nations free of white
                    interference as a safeguard against corruption.
            One of the book's most fascinating aspects is its account of the many uses made by Cherokee
                    leadership of reform sentiment within Gilded Age culture. Grant's paternalistic
                    "Peace Policy" became a promotion of Indian autonomy, corruption in reservation
                    administration was united to corporate scandals, and guarantees of Cherokee separateness became a
                    model of successful reform worthy of the continuation of Indian Territory status. The Cherokee
                    leaders went so far as to equate their nationhood with the distinct status of corporations, arguing
                    in favor of legal rights and communal land ownership. The Okmulgee Council provided a sixyear-long
                    arena for the refinement of much of this rhetoric. In addition, the multinational Indian fairs held
                    at Muskogee bolstered their positions by supplying evidence of Indian order, education,
                    Christianity, industry, and agricultural advancement-the hallmarks of American progress.
            Denson concedes that his work reveals very little about Cherokee culture and society. An educated
                    Cherokee mixed-blood elite composed of representatives chosen by the Cherokee National Council
                    constructed the responses to federal demands. Their arguments do not reflect the understandings or
                    the attitudes of all Cherokees. Denson's work reveals, however, an inspired and dynamic  interaction of ideas among competing interests with enormous
                    stakes at risk. This well-researched and beautifully written book will be a welcome addition for
                    university courses in Indian history and law and U.S. history as well as offering an intelligent
                    discussion of Indian issues in nineteenth-century America for a general audience.
            LINDA W. REESE teaches at East Central University in Ada, 
                        Oklahoma
                    , and is currently at work on a history of freedwomen in Indian Territory,
                1865-1890.
         
         
            
               Lincoln's Defense of Politics The Public Man and His Opponents in the Crisis
                        Over Slavery By Thomas E. Schneider (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 2006. Pp. x, 224. Abbreviations, notes, works cited, index. $39.95.)
            "Liberty and Union, now and forever, one and inseparable," declared Senator Daniel
                    Webster in 1830, in a speech memorized by generations of schoolchildren well into the next century.
                    This sentiment, largely uncontested since the Civil War, could not be taken for granted by Webster
                    or his contemporaries. In fact, many people of his time viewed union and liberty as entirely
                    different-even mutually exclusive-considerations. It was Abraham Lincoln who achieved the
                    intellectual and political formulation that allowed the durable marriage of the two ideas in the
                    body politic, an achievement brought into focus by this valuable little book.
            
               Lincoln's Defense of Politics presents a series of intellectual portraits
                    limning the thought of the major political figures of the antebellum era-including the usual
                    suspects (John Calhoun and William Lloyd Garrison) as well as some who are relatively overlooked as
                    political philosophers (Frederick Douglass and Henry David Thoreau). As Thomas E. Schneider shows,
                    abolitionists and pro-slavery theorists, for all their obvious differences, often shared
                    surprisingly similar assumptions about the relationship between legal and moral law and about the
                    possibilities and limits of the U.S. Constitution. In particular, many of these people bore deeply
                    suspicions of politics-here understood as the necessity to resolve, pragmatically if not necessarily
                    logically, the divergences of interest, ideology, and morality that are inevitably part of any
                    social compact.
            As Schneider shows, Lincoln proved unusual in his insistence on both the necessity for a highly
                    imperfect Union and the ultimate-not immediate or even foreseeable, but eventual-end of slavery. Yet
                    Lincoln  was not the only thinker trying to square an apparent
                    circle by securing both union and liberty. (Indeed, this was ultimately the basis of a successful
                    electoral coalition.) Like Lincoln, Stephen Douglas sought to occupy the crucial middle ground
                    between fiery abolitionists and fire-eating secessionists. But while Douglas believed that
                    slavery's fate in the Union could be resolved without recourse to moral considerations,
                    Lincoln considered morality essential to the resolution-an assertion that he shared, perhaps
                    ironically, with some pro-slavery theorists. Lincoln also possessed an exceptionally supple ability
                    to reason his way into right making might, all the while realizing the necessity to persuade even
                    bitter opponents of the efficacy of his view-and actually doing so, something that began to happen
                    even before his death.
            While not technically a work of history, this book nevertheless affords a notably succinct and
                    intellectually nuanced survey of the intellectual landscape of the quarter-century before 1865. Part
                    of the University of 
                        Missouri
                    's "Shades of Blue and Gray" Civil War series, it succeeds in
                    its mission to address scholar and buff alike, even if it could not easily be described as light
                    reading. One finishes the book amazed, yet again, by the clarity and compassion of
                    Lincoln's vision, and it is Schneider's accomplishment that he brings this truism
                    to life anew.
            JIM CULLEN teaches at the Ethical Culture Fieldston School in 
                        New York
                     City and is the author of The Civil War in Popular Culture: A Reusable
                        Past (1995), among other books.
         
         
            
               Livestock Hotels America's Historic Stockyards By J'Nell L.
                    Pate (Fort Worth, Tex.: 
                        Texas
                     Christian University Press, 2005. Pp. xiv, 225. Illustrations, maps, appendix, notes,
                    glossary, bibliography, index. $29.95.)
            One of the first things I learned in graduate school was the difference between works of history and
                    antiquarian studies. The former asked larger, interpretive questions of the material, while the
                    later studied a single narrow topic for its own sake. This exceptionally modest monograph is most
                    definitely a piece of antiquarianism.
            Stock yards, though no longer a part of the American landscape, once played a vital role in providing
                    the nation's foodstuffs. The facilities operated next to, yet separate from, the great
                    packing houses, and provided  acres of pens to hold the animals
                    that arrived by rail, there to be brokered, traded, and slaughtered.
            The author provides a brief overview of the industry, chronicling the rise and fall of this business
                    method for handling meat. She then devotes most of the work to a survey of the nation's
                    stockyards, providing brief descriptions of all the major facilities. Each of these 3-6-page case
                    studies follows the same format, describing the founding of the yard and the choice of its location,
                    presenting statistics on output at its height, and then detailing reasons for and the timing of its
                    demise. Two dozen yards are so chronicled, including the one in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which receives the standard treatment.
            This book suffers from a number of shortcomings, not the least of which is its modest vision. The
                    discussion of the fundamental period of stockyard creation and dominance takes only seven pages and
                    provides little sense of the changes-especially the revolution in work process-that created this
                    industry. Only seven pages treat 
                        Chicago
                    's Union Stock-Yards, and while the author mentions the businessmen who created
                    and ran these operations, she mentions nothing of the Prince family, the key figures behind the
                    development of the 
                        Chicago
                     pens and their operation until their finale in the late twentieth century.
            While the author draws on a few worthwhile interviews, she makes little use of primary sources, and
                    demonstrates at times only a cursory reading of the secondary literature. Her discussion of 
                        Chicago
                    , for example, depends entirely on older sources; she wisely discusses the 1919 strike,
                    but makes no reference to the critical article on this subject by Dominic Pacyga.
            Other omissions mark the text, most notably the lives of the workers. A few personal stories enliven
                    the manuscript, but the human beings that appear are usually (although not always) the entrepreneurs
                    who built the yards, rather than the men who worked in them.
            The author also neglects to discuss the reuse of these massive facilities, many of which have been
                    turned into industrial parks. Her discussion of the Ft. Worth operation reveals that it has been
                    turned into a western theme park for tourists, a tantalizing notion and symbolic of why the broader
                    notion of redevelopment is worth further study.
            Finally, the work occasionally lapses into old-fashioned language that is questionable in a scholarly
                    work. At various times we read about "Anglo-Saxon ideas of free enterprise" (p.
                    15), and of how the cattle drive "burst on the scene with all its color and
                    romance" (p. 21).
            ROBERT SLAYTON is professor of history at Chapman University and author of Back of
                        the Yards (1986).
         
         
         
            
               Home on the Rails Women, the Railroad, and the Rise of Public Domesticity By Amy
                    G. Richter (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 2005. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Pp. xiii, 272. Clothbound,
                    $49.95, paperbound, $19.95.)
            
               "The Train is Coming," a stylish fashion plate in Godey's Lady's Book of May 1850, depicted two women in crinoline skirts
                    admiring a train on a far-off viaduct safe from the belching beast's soot and cinders. Two
                    decades later Godey's celebrated the completion of the transcontinental
                    railroad-"a great work begun, carried on and completed by men only." In a bow to
                    its feminine readership, the journal lauded the "humane and peaceful employment"
                    of womankind in the trade and friendly intercourse of nation building (p. 2).
            In this engaging study, Amy G. Richter rides the rails with the women of Victorian America, exploring
                    a rich and shifting complex of private values and public culture. Richter's exhaustive
                    readings of female travelers' diaries and letters provide lively anecdotes and narrative
                    for an incisive account of how the new woman traveler molded an "at home" ideal on
                    the railroads, taking the parlor from the front room to the dusty coach and transforming it. The
                    engineer still kept his hand on the throttle but behind him he hauled "An Adamless Eden on
                    Wheels," a palatial railcar fitted out for ladies and the bane of male riders forbidden to
                    enter this rolling paradise (p. 110).
            The image of the vulnerable, fragile white Victorian woman radically changed when she stepped aboard,
                    venturing from a sheltered life into the public sphere. Beyond their carping, male passengers and
                    the railroad employees who served her adapted with chivalry and civility. For the African American
                    woman traveler racism compounded the challenges of gender and class. "These same
                    ‘gentlemanly and efficient’ conductors ...deliberately fold their arms and
                    turn round when the Black Woman's turn came to alight," Southern traveler Anna
                    Julia Cooper wrote in 1892 (p. 47). Documented cases of African American female passengers who went
                    to the courts for redress foreshadow the landmark decisions of the next century.
            The railroads had always been and to a large degree would remain the domain of men with
                    "Nerves of Steel." A chapter with this title explores fictional works with
                    railroad heroines and accounts of real-life adventurers like globe-girdling Nellie Bly all of them
                    filled with images of romantic, daring young women. Such images depicted a vision of strong and
                    capable womanhood, "a New Woman, one fit for life on the rails, that emerged alongside and
                    in conversation with popular notions of strong manliness" (p. 139).
            The roles of railroad bosses, "gentlemen" conductors, and the legendary  Pullman porters are examined as they welcome women travelers aboard,
                    initially sensing a strain on those nerves of steel but eventually coming to accept the
                    domestication of their often rude preserve. As instruments of change, their lady passengers exert a
                    cultural influence that extends far beyond the rail lines and whistle stops to the frontiers of
                    public life.
            A groundbreaking contribution to the history of women and the railroad, Richter's meticulous
                    research and lucid prose illuminate the passage from Victorian America to modern times, the nuanced
                    layers of private lives and separate spheres, and the public culture and corporate strategy that
                    show the remaking of the life and landscape of nineteenth-century America-a terrain where the New
                    Woman took her seat on the Twentieth Century Limited and began the journey anew.
            ERROL LINCOLN UYS is the author of Riding the Rails: Teenagers on the Move During
                        the Great Depression (1999).
         
         
            The Shaping of America A Geographical Perspective on 500 Years of History,
                    Volume 4, Global America, 1915-2000 By D.W. Meinig (
                        New Haven
                    , Conn.: Yale University Press, 2004. Pp. xvi, 467. Illustrations, maps, bibliography,
                    index. $45.00.)
            The publication of Global America brings to completion D. W. Meinig's
                    four-volume, twenty-year writing project, "The Shaping of America." The series
                    commenced with Atlantic America 1492-1800 (1986), which described the colonial and
                    earlynational era as part of a broader Atlantic history. Meinig's second volume, Continental America, 1800-1867 (1993), described the expansion of the nation
                    westward to the Pacific Ocean, but with the greater West still detached from
                    the eastern domain. That national domain was split over the slavery controversy, a tale that Meinig
                    vividly portrayed in cultural geographic terms. Volume Three, Transcontinental
                    America, 1850-1915 (1999) traced the creation of western culture regions and their binding to
                    the national domain in the railroad era; the book covered, as well, the geography of immigration and
                    manufacturing during what Lewis Mumford once dubbed the Paleotechnic era: the nation's
                    first industrial age.
            
               Global America completes the task of telling our national history by describing the
                    geography of mobilization in the automobile, electrical, and air age-the Neotechnic era, in
                    Mumford's terms. The geography of a national system of federal highways,  enhanced with the introduction of the interstate system in the 1950s
                    and 1960s, and the consequent migration of Americans to create new regions or improve older ones
                    form major topics of discussion. Meinig considers the geography of airways to illustrate further the
                    dynamism of twentiethcentury America.
            The concept of regionalism forms an important theme in this book. For Meinig, regionalism can be
                    based upon any of a number of criteria: resentment (the South), rational management (the
                        Tennessee Valley Authority), or simply sectionalism, a term Meinig employs
                    to refer to the everyday fact of cultural differences based upon religion, language, and ethnicity.
                    Of the author's various latetwentieth-century American regions, the most interesting is
                    Megalopolis, the urban and suburban corridor stretching from 
                        Boston
                     south to 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. Megalopolis, a concept taken from the French geographer Jean Gottmann, forms the
                    heart of the nation ("twenty percent of the population residing on only two percent of the
                    national land" [p. 149]). This vital region itself lies within a larger Manufacturing Belt,
                    which stretches westward to the Mississippi River. The Midwest, for Meinig,
                    extends from western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     all the way to the northern Great Plains, including the Corn and Wheat Belts that cross
                    Indiana. The greater South is presented as a region still apart from the North, a place with its own
                    subregions and subcultural peculiarities. Finally, Meinig defines the regions of the greater West
                    and of isolated areas including Alaska, 
                  Hawaii,
                            Puerto Rico
               , and the "internal
                    empire" of Indian reservations.
            The book's final hundred pages define the geography of the American empire abroad, paying
                    particular attention to our Pacific reach to East and Southeast Asia, the Atlantic bridge to the
                    European Union, and our involvement in the Islamic Heartland of the Middle East. This section ends
                    emphatically with three photographs of critical institutions and symbols of our imperial ambitions:
                    the United Nations building ("Paradox of Power"), the U.S.'s bid to end
                    its historical isolationism; a panorama of lower Manhattan bookended by the World Trade Center and
                    the Statue of Liberty ("Capital of Capitalism"); and the Pentagon
                    ("Massive Seat of Militarism"). His discussion of the U.S.'s sense of
                    betrayal by the U.N.-even as our power to control the global economy and to manipulate military
                    information for political purposes raises anti-American resentment elsewhere-seems particularly apt
                    during these troubling times.
            Meinig presents American history in a fresh way by emphasizing cultural geography as a complement to,
                    not a substitute for, traditional historical narratives. He stresses changing human geographies over
                    any sort of determinism based upon physical geography. Another welcome feature of Meinig's
                    work is his consideration of America's borderlands; 
                        Canada
                    ,  Mexico, and the Caribbean are presented
                    throughout the series as organically involved with American national space.
            Overall, the author has again succeeded brilliantly in writing a lively narrative interspersed with
                    innovative maps (a great atlas could be created by collating the maps from the four volumes) and
                    historical and contemporary photographs of cultural landscapes and symbolic sights. One can quibble
                    with his regionalization: I was disappointed to see the Northeast coast presented simply as
                    Megalopolis (see Wilbur Zelinsky's The Cultural Geography of the 
                            United States
                        
                [1992] for an alternative regionalization), but I must admit that
                    Gottman's concept fits perfectly the final volume's overall theme of mobility. The
                    author rightfully claims that his is the first attempt by a historical geographer to capture the
                    500-year history of Europeanized North America in complex detail. I hope that historians and general
                    readers of American history will read these wonderful books.
            BRUCE BIGELOW is professor of geography at 
                        Butler
                     University. His research interest focuses on the cultural and political geography of
                    Indiana during the Civil War era.
         
         
            
               The Changing Face of Public History The 
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society and the Transformation of an American Museum By Catherine
                    M. Lewis (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 2005. Pp. xi, 172. Illustrations, notes, works cited, index.
                    Paperbound, $22.00.)
            As one of the few monographs to examine critically the institutional changes taking place in a major
                    museum, Catherine Lewis's history of the 
                        Chicago
                     Historical Society (CHS) represents a major contribution to the museum field. In
                    contrast to most celebratory volumes commissioned for significant anniversaries, Lewis, associate
                    professor of history and women's studies at Kennesaw State University and also special
                    projects coordinator at the 
                        Atlanta
                     History Center, presents a dispassionate but critical analysis of an organization in
                    transition.
            Through deep mining of the archives, and with extensive interviews of former and present CHS staff as
                    well as other museum professionals, Lewis has assembled an intimate and eminently readable portrait
                    of change in one of the country's most prominent urban historical institutions. She
                    explores in depth the factors behind the CHS's transformation from an elitist institution
                    celebrating the refinement of the city to a dynamic public forum welcoming diverse voices and
                    engaging the community in meaningful dialogues. As CHS  Board
                    Chairman Richard Needham noted in the 1992 annual report, "We had evolved from simply being
                    a collector of history or ‘
                        Chicago
                    's attic,’ to an institution on a journey to reach out to the
                    city's diverse groups" (p. 80). Lewis connects that journey to broader currents of
                    professional and social change.
            The book's enduring contribution, however, lies in Lewis's ability to go beyond the
                    simplistic dualities that sometimes characterize the "reinvented museum" and to
                    probe the subtle and complex nature of institutional change over time, particularly in the last half
                    of the twentieth century. Rather than focus on the ephemeral impact of innovative exhibits or
                    programs, Lewis looks at the sustained efforts of a series of museum leaders to effect
                    transformative, long-term change-as defined by institution-wide impact, sustained financial and
                    intellectual support, and challenge to the museum's interpretive authority. This final
                    condition forms the core theme of the book as Lewis explores the tensions between the
                    museum's traditional role as commemorative site and purveyor of civic pride on the one
                    hand, and its new commitment, on the other, to tackle deep-seated issues of identity and social
                    inequity in partnership with the community. The impact of such changes on the staff in particular
                    makes the book compelling reading for museum leaders seeking to instill similar institutional change
                    in their own institutions. While few individuals other than the CHS presidents and curators are
                    named, the challenges for staff trying to effect the transformation of the society's
                    mission are apparent. In particular, the shift from a tradition of curators as sole custodians of
                    collections and primary authors of the exhibitions to a newer model of collaborative, teambased
                    projects emerges as a signal change in the fundamental relationships between museums and their
                    audiences. As Lewis notes, "Once passive recipients of expert knowledge, contemporary
                    museum constituencies are now more likely to challenge interpretations with which they
                    disagree" (p. 34). Other broader museum and social trends are woven into the institutional
                    history-the rise of multiculturalism, the erosion of expert authority, culture wars, and the
                    tensions of balancing academic representation of the past with popular and entertaining visitor
                    experiences.
            If there is a weaknesses in the book, it may be the inverse of its strength. Lewis crafts a tightly
                    scripted narrative (only 137 pages of text) that clearly follows the core themes of transformation
                    and interpretive authority, but the human stories within the institution are muted. Perhaps the
                    interviewees were only as forthcoming as they appear to have been on condition of anonymity, but the
                    author's insight into staff perspectives would have been made more compelling with more
                    quotes and first person accounts. Instead, CHS's presidents and its principal exhibitions
                         (including "We the People", the
                    "Neighborhoods" project, and "A House Divided") become
                    Lewis's main characters. The "real-life" constraints of institutional
                    change are homogenized and generalized. Greater attention to personal accounts would have revealed
                    more of the contests and conflicts typical of any institution in transition and likely would have
                    been more instructive for those who want to learn from the CHS's example.
            ELIZABETH KRYDER-REID is director of museum studies and associate professor of anthropology at
                    Indiana University-Purdue University 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
            
               Peoples Temple and Black Religion in America Edited by Rebecca Moore, Anthony B.
                    Pinn, and Mary R. Sawyer (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2004. Pp. xvii, 204. Notes, charts, tables, index.
                    $49.95.)
            More than a quarter century after its tragic demise in the jungles of British 
                        Guyana
                    , the Peoples Temple and its charismatic leader, the Reverend Jim Jones, continue to
                    fascinate scholars. This collection of essays attempts to understand Jones's messianic
                    movement and its implications for the sociology, politics, and history of African American religion.
            According to the editors, while previous scholarship about the Peoples Temple and Jonestown
                    acknowledges the heavy participation of African Americans, it fails "to explore in a
                    substantive way the implications of these demographics," especially the numerous ways that
                    the predominantly white leadership of the Peoples Temple "emulated Black Church culture in
                    style and form, and to some extent, in substance" (p. xiii).
            The book comprises ten chapters, each of which can be read as a stand alone article, though they vary
                    in purpose as well as quality. Some of the most insightful and provocative among them, such as those
                    authored by Anthony B. Pinn, Mary R. Sawyer, and Milmon Harrison, appear to have been written
                    specifically for this volume. Others chapters, written by J. Alfred Smith and Muhammed Kenyatta,
                    were written shortly after the Jonestown tragedy. Additional contributions, one by the late C. Eric
                    Lincoln and Lawrence Mamiya, another by Archie Smith, Jr., represent two early examples of
                    scholars' attempts to understand the implications of the Peoples Temple for the study of
                    the black American religious experience. Tanya Hollis and co-authors Duchess Harris and Adam
                    Waterman examine the political and social activism that characterized the Temple during its halcyon
                    days in the Mendocino Valley and 
                        San Francisco
                     Bay area.
            Of particular note is Rebecca Moore's attempt to create a collective biography of the
                    movement's membership. Her demographic evidence 
                    strongly suggests that Jonestown "was a racially black community in a number of key
                    respects" (p. 57). Not only did African Americans make up a majority of the Jonestown
                    enclave, but black senior citizens' social security checks also comprised a major source of
                    income for Jonestown for nearly a year. Finally, Moore argues-on the basis of rather slim
                    organizational chart evidence-that African Americans held key leadership positions in the jungle
                    outpost. Even less convincing is her claim that, culturally speaking, the Peoples Temple was a black
                    religious group.
            This is the crux of the book's main argument: That the Peoples Temple represented one of
                    several modalities of the black American religious tradition. Ultimately, this claim requires
                    careful analysis of racial and institutional identity, and in this respect the book falls sadly
                    short of its intended purpose. The fact that Jones borrowed liberally from Father Divine's
                    Peace Mission, that he employed elements of traditional black American religious culture in his
                    services, or that the majority of his followers were African American no more imparts a black
                    religious identity to the Peoples Temple than the appropriation of African American youth culture by
                    Coca-Cola or Nike makes these corporate entities authentically black. This methodological
                    flaw-viewing black religious style as synonymous with black religious substance-is evident
                    throughout most of the book (except for Smith's chapter, which casts serious doubt not only
                    on the characterization of Peoples Temple as a representation of the black religious tradition, but
                    also on whether it was a church at all).
            Not much in Peoples Temple and Black Religion in America can be identified as truly
                    new scholarship. Nearly half of the ten chapters have been previously published. Devotees of Indiana
                    history will note the absence of any in-depth analysis of the movement's beginnings in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . If, as Wordsworth believed, the child is father of the man, then the Temple's
                    Hoosier origins should provide valuable clues to its later growth in 
                        California
                     and eventual self-destruction in 
                        Guyana
                    , as well as help us to understand the eventual descent into madness of its
                    self-appointed leader. Unfortunately, this book remains eerily silent on these questions.
            Moore, Pinn, and Sawyer admit that their book "is not intended as a definitive treatment of
                    Peoples Temple." They "hope other scholars will respond to the challenge to
                    enlarge our understanding of this multifaceted movement and the people who found meaning in
                    it" (p. xvii). This reviewer hopes so, too.
            MONOROE H. LITTLE, JR., is associate professor of history and director of the African American
                    and African Diaspora studies program at Indiana University Purdue University 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
         
            REVIEW NOTICES
            
               A C. S. Rafinesque Anthology Edited by Charles Boewe (Jefferson, N.C.: McFarland
                    Publishers, 2005. Pp. viii, 271. Illustrations, index of genera, general index. $45.00.)
            American naturalist and 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, resident C. S. Rafinesque is remembered among scientists for devising Latin
                    scientific names for more plants than any other naturalist. But nomenclature was only one of his
                    many scientific passions, which ranged from archaeology to zoology. This volume, arranged in nine
                    sections and accompanied by editorial introductions, presents some of Rafinesque's
                    published writings in those other areas of inquiry. All of these pieces are rare-several discovered
                    only within the last few years-and their recovery and reissue will help broaden understanding of
                    Rafinesque's wide-ranging achievements.
            
               The Sword and the Pen A Life of Lew Wallace By Ray Boomhower (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2005. Pp. x, 164. Illustrations, list of sources,
                    list of historic sites, index. $15.95.)
            The tradition of writing historical biography for young readers seems to have fallen out of favor
                    with many authors and presses, leaving student and general reader alike to fall back on
                    Internet-published biographies of inadequate length and often dubious attribution. Enter the IHS
                    Press with this well-produced biography of Hoosier soldier and author Lew Wallace. The volume nicely
                    balances text and illustrations and also recommends further reading and historic sites associated
                    with Wallace. Librarians at every school and public library in Indiana should acquire this book for
                    their young readers' section.
            
            
               A Lost American Dream Civil War Letters (1862/63) of Immigrant Theodor
                        Heinrich Brandes in Historical Contexts By Antonius Holtmann (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Max Kade German-American Center, 2005. Pp. vi, 103. Illustrations, figures, maps,
                    notes, appendix, bibliography. Paperbound, $6.95.)
            Theodor Brandes emigrated from Prussia to Oldenburg, Indiana, in 1853. In October 1862, Brandes
                    earned $800 as a paid substitute enlisting in the 83rd Indiana Volunteer Infantry
                    Regiment. His subsequent letters, transcribed from the original German, detail the 83rd's
                    actions during Grant's approach to Vicksburg but stop before the surrender of the city, due
                    to Brandes's death from sickness. The letters also provide a window into the thoughts of a
                    soldier who was fighting not for abolition or for the Union, but for the monetary gain that his
                    service brought to his family.
            
               Herndon's Lincoln By William H. Herndon and Jesse W. Weik Edited by
                    Douglas L. Wilson and Rodney O. Davis (
                        Champaign
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2006. Pp. xxxviii, 481. Appendix, illustrations, editor's annotations,
                    corrigenda, index. $35.00.)
            Because he was Abraham Lincoln's law partner for nearly two decades and because he
                    systematically collected information about the martyred president from former friends in 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana and because he revealed intimate secrets about Lincoln's lineage
                    and love life, William Herndon drew attention with his "history and personal recollections
                    of Abraham Lincoln"-a book still considered to be the most influential, and controversial,
                    biography of Lincoln ever published. This critical edition brings together all of Herndon's
                    strengths in an accessible and documented format. The full text of the original 1889 edition
                    appears, followed by an appendix identifying material added to a revised 1892 edition. Endnotes to
                    both text and appendix serve to document textual changes-in the wording, spelling, layout, and
                    editing performed by Herndon and Weik-and to identify sources. The most common attributions point to
                    Lincoln's Collected Works (online at http://www. hti. umich.
                    edu/171incoln/), to Ward Hill Lamon's Life of Abraham Lincoln (1872), and
                    to the editors' previously edited volume of Herndon's research materials, Herndon's Informants (1998). An introduction by the editors sketches
                    Herndon's life, describes the process by which he collaborated with Hoosier Jesse W. Weik
                    in authoring the text, and summarizes scholarly debates about Herndon and his research methods,
                    especially as they relate to the story of Lincoln's love affair with Ann Rutledge. After
                    more than a century, Herndon's Lincoin
                     remains an essential read for every serious student of the life
                    of Lincoln; this volume is now the essential edition of Herndon's work.
            
               Sommerfruchte (Summer Fruits) A Brief History of the First 31 Years of
                        the Sisters of St. Benedict in Ferdinand, Indiana Translated by Eberhard and Ruth Reichmann
                    (1898; Ferdinand, Ind.: The Sisters of St. Benedict, 2005. Pp. 84. Illustrations, appendices.
                    Paperbound, $15.95.)
            In 1898 a Benedictine nun sat down to write a short history of the Sisters of St. Benedict during
                    their first three decades in Ferdinand, Indiana, "the right place for a convent where the
                    fruits of virtue and the blossoms of piety...should be blooming and ripening" (p. 9). This
                    document, whose original author remains unknown, details the construction of the convent and the
                    work of the sisters, mother superior, and priests. Historians of American Catholicism will be
                    particularly interested in the author's account of the schools operated by the sisters. The
                    text appears in German and English, supplemented with a generous collection of period photographs.
            
               Aristocrat and Proletarian The Extraordinary Life of Paxton Pattison Hibben By
                    Stuart G. Hibben (Tamarac, Fla.: Llumina Press, 2006. Pp. iii, 234. Maps, illustrations, references,
                    list of publications, index. $29.95.)
            Into a lifespan of only forty-eight years (cut short by a fatal bout of influenza in 1928), 
                        Indianapolis
                     native Paxton Pattison Hibben packed the roles of diplomat, politician, soldier, war
                    correspondent, linguist, journalist, and humanitarian. Author Stuart Hibben, a distant relative,
                    highlights and celebrates Paxton's courage in renouncing an aristocratic upbringing to
                    champion the cause of the weak and helpless-specifically, the starving children of Russia's
                    famine of 1921-1923. These actions earned him scorn from many countrymen, praise from the Soviet
                    Union and, ultimately, the contradictory title of "aristocratic proletarian."
            
               Tray Chic Celebrating Indiana's Cafeteria Culture By Sam Stall
                            (
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               : Emmis Publishing, 2004. Pp. 120. Illustrations, recipes.
                    Paperbound, $22.99.)
            What is a Hoosier? According to Sam Stall, a true Hoosier is someone who still eats in a cafeteria.
                    Stall sets out to explore what he calls the "cafeteria 
                    culture" of Indiana by looking at seven different cafeterias, each a fixture of central and
                    south-central Indiana for decades. Anyone who has eaten at Laughner's, MCL,
                    Gray's, Poe's, Jonathan Byrd's, Shapiro's, or Marian's
                    will enjoy reading about the history of each cafeteria, the modern business practices required to
                    keep these old-fashioned restaurants profitable in the twenty-first century, and the continuing
                    commitment of the families who run (or in the case of Laughner's, ran) each.
            
               Indiana Sporting Life Selections from Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History
                    Edited by Ray Boomhower (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 2005. Pp. 109. Illustrations, selections for further
                    reading. Paperbound, $19.95.)
            This book is the first of a thematic series that will reproduce articles from the Indiana Historical
                    Society's magazine, Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History. These nine
                    articles cover a wide range of sporting topics-including] baseball and basketball (five of the nine
                    pieces), boxing, fishing, motorcycle racing, and horse racing-and feature little-known subjects such
                    as Erwin G. "Cannon Ball" Baker of early twentieth-century motorcycle racing fame
                    and the Creek Chub Bait Company of Garrett, Indiana, as well as the far more famous Crispus Attucks
                    Tigers of 1950-1951 and baseball player Gil Hodges. This generously illustrated volume should appeal
                    to sports fans of all ages.
            
               Presbyterian Pioneers Confronting the Culture, 1843-2006 The Indiana Attica-
                            Williamsport
                         Presbyterian Church By Carol Parks Morrison ([Longwood, Fla.]: Xulon Press,
                    2006. Pp. ix, 433. Illustrations, bibliography, appendix. Paperbound, $21.99.)
            Using church records and local history sources, Carol Parks Morrison has written an extensive history
                    of two Presbyterian congregations that, during the course of their long history, became one.
                    Although most of Morrison's chapters are organized by successive pastorates, the
                    author's eye for detail yields a story that brings out the important role played by lay
                    members of the two churches-in particular, the women. Beyond the obvious appeal to members of the
                    churches, the book will also prove useful to anyone interested in the history of Attica and 
                        Fountain County
                    , and to those studying the history of Presbyterianism in Indiana and the Midwest.
            
            
               She Got Up Off the Couch And Other Heroic Acts from Mooreland, Indiana By Haven
                    Kimmel (
                        New York
                    : Simon and Schuster, 2006. Pp. xiv, 304. Photographs. $24.00.)
            After 20 years of burrowing into the corner of the family couch, eating junk food, and reading
                    science fiction, Indiana mother Delonda Jarvis did something that shocked her family: She went to
                    college. Or as her youngest daughter, Haven Kimmel, writes, she "stood up, brushed away the
                    pork rind crumbs, and escaped by the skin of her teeth" (p. 5). So begins the sequel to A Girl Named Zippy (2002), Kimmel's initial look into small-town Indiana
                    life. Here, she strikes a slightly more serious and emotional chord, highlighting her
                    mother's struggle to leverage some financial and emotional independence from a restrictive
                    marriage and from Midwestern culture.
         
         
         
            LETTERS
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To the Editor
                        Your review of Dark Union in the September 2006 IMH (pages 283 to 285) was cogent and well-balanced. As your reviewer, Michael
                                    W. Pfau, mentions, the citations provided by that book's authors Leonard E
                                    Guttridge and Ray A. Neff tend to be woefully vague. However, your reviewer
                                    completely omits one of the book's major contentions-namely, that John
                                    Wilkes Booth survived for many years after 1865. And on that
                                    theme, the book's citations are not vague. After reading
                                    the book, I went to Special Collections at Indiana State University Library and was
                                    favorably impressed by the documentation that is now held there related to John
                                    Wilkes Booth's post-1865 survival. Some of that documentation is now posted
                                    on the internet and can be viewed by going to: http://library. indstate. edu/
                                    about/units/rbsc/neff/neff-idx. html It is clearly time to test a DNA sample from
                                    the alleged vertebra bone of John Wilkes Booth that is held at the Navy Medical
                                    Museum in 
                                        Washington
                                    , D. C. But unless influential U.S. Civil War historians issue a public
                                    call for such a DNA test, it evidently will not occur. And the government has
                                    recently made such a test more difficult by encasing the vertebra bone in plastic.
                        
                                    PAUL SALSTROM
                                    
                              Associate Professor of History
                              Saint Mary-of-the-Woods College
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
